ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6135	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Radojčić, Dr Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandra Maletic, Milisav Petronijevic, Muamer Bačevac, Milorad Tosic. We continue the joint principled search on drafts of the law at points 1 to 4 of the agenda. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6136	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Presidency, the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to give my presentation, as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group - the Party for Democratic Action, to begin with amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and in part that refers specifically to the tightening of criminal policy for the criminal act, to the illegal crossing of the state border and smuggling of people, since we believe that this is precisely the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely a stricter criminal policy, will achieve objectives, such as preventing human trafficking and reducing the number of illegal border crossings, and, of course, the control of the migrants flows of so-called Balkan routes. Unauthorized crossover of the state border and trafficking of people belongs to a group of crimes against public order and peace, and the fines proposed for this crime are a prison sentence from one year to eight years. The proposal now increases the sentence of two to 12 years, if this is a criminal offence committed by the group by abuse of the official position, and if it is done by an organised criminal group, a three- to five-year sentence is proposed. I would like to remind all of us that 579,518 people passed through the Republic of Serbia last year from January 1st to December 31st 2015, so many were recorded. Last year, 759 criminal charges against more than 1000, 1127 people were filed for attempted smuggling of thousands, in particular 8,868 people for committing a criminal offence, illegally crossing the state border and smuggling of people. A total of more than 14,404 migrants were discovered during that period in an attempt to cross the state border illegally. They are subject to proceedings under the State Border Protection Act. The area of migration management in the Republic of Serbia is, of course, a multi-sector area, as we all know it, and we support efforts to address this problem. We support including all relevant institutions, NGOs or those civil society and international organisations. We believe that a whole spectrum of different measures is necessary, the tightening of criminal policy is one good measure we welcome. I must mention that the deployment of additional powers of the border police and the police, the common forces of the police and the Serbian Army, as well as the joint international police forces have obviously brought visible results. I would like to remind myself that additional troops have been deployed to secure the state border towards the Republic of Macedonia and Hungary, that Hungarian and Austrian police officers with thermal vehicles have been deployed to secure the state border between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, to monitor the terrain and work together with officials of the border police administration of the Republic of Serbia. So all these measures are necessary to really prevent what's happening to us. These proposed amendments to the Criminal Code are certainly in line with our path to the EU and with the adopted Action Plan for Chapter 24. We point out the importance of activities envisaged by the same Action Plan, such as the formation of joint working groups with neighbouring countries to prevent illegal migration by some alternative roads, such as Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., but also the formation of a working group of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia with the French and German police. There are many examples of practice, and I would like to conclude on this subject that the SVM party is extremely looking forward to the fact that the state policy has taken place, on the subject of migrants, in this direction that we have been standing by since the very beginning of this issue, which we are facing. We remain consistent in this matter that the interests, rights and assets of our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should be first. The government of the Republic of Serbia's task is to prevent illegal migration, decisively confront human trafficking as a form of organised crime. As far as the other draft laws are concerned, the harmonisation, first of all, of the Criminal Code in other matters of defining criminal acts against business, is in line with the adopted Action Plan for Chapter 23. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property stemmed from the crime are also an obligation under Action Plan 23, even these activities are related to the Action Plan for Chapter 24, in particular to the part relating to the fight against corruption, as well as the next Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption, also Chapter 23, related to the activities of Action Plan 24, the fight against corruption. It is extremely important that this time we end what we did not before, and this is a legal description of the offence of the abuse of the position of the responsible person, which has so far been partially amended, or not fully followed by the recommendations of the European Commission in the Report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing we're gonna change that now. Furthermore, amendments and additions to the Criminal Code also apply to the part concerning the Istanbul Convention, i.e. the harmonisation of our domestic legislation with obligations under the Istanbul Convention. In particular, the Criminal Code defines new crimes that have long been pending, such as persecution, full harassment, mutilation of the female sex organ, the forced conclusion of marriage. But since I've already opened the subject, as far as the next bill on preventing domestic violence is concerned, I'd like to first talk about the situation on the ground, what is the normative situation, and what are the problems victims face, which are the narrow throats that arise. First of all, it's a really scary fact that according to statistics, every woman who gets caught in a partner relationship, each other was once a victim of psychological violence, every third physical and every fourth sexual. What is certain is that violence is a planful action and that the perpetrator is consciously doing what he is doing. The current legislative framework was not bad, but as I mentioned, narrow throats, i.e. specific problems, are visible in the field and in practice. In addition to the most significant rules that have so far defined certain parts of this issue, meaning, Family Law, Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, even for the sake of better co-operation of different institutions involved in this process, general and specific protocols on the treatment and co-operation of victims' institutions, women who suffer domestic violence and partner relations, in order to define these general and special protocols which the actor has, what powers he has, the responsibility to act in accordance with them. In practice, what is happening is that people say that there is insufficient co-operation, i.e. coordination of relevant state bodies. At present, unfortunately, there is a huge disproportionate number of victims recorded by social work centres and by the number of measures of judicial proceedings and interventions taken by centres to protect victims. The reminders are working, according to the current Family Law, a lawsuit for expressing a measure of protection against domestic violence in partner relations, can be brought before the court by the victim himself, her legal representative, the Centre for Social Work and the Public Prosecutor. However, in practice, the use of official authority by the Centre for Social Labour, to launch a measure of protection against violence itself, is a very rare exception, not a rule. The aim of this bill that lies before us is to really establish the standard that we welcome, so a bully must not stay at home not only when a crime is committed, but when there is a fear or doubt, the danger that it can be done. It's consistent with so-called. The principle of zero tolerance and with the Istanbul Convention itself of complete commitment. It is very good that the bill specifically defines emergency measures and providing protection and support to victims, which was lacking in previous proposals. And so far there has been a legal obligation to report violence and if there is a suspicion of violence, however, everything between 5% and 10% is ready to do so, if seen in its surroundings or in the neighbourhood. It is good that the bill now provides for general duty and institutions, means that the police, the public prosecutor, report domestic violence or the immediate danger of this violence, without delay, state and other bodies, organisations and institutions are required to report urgent reports, both to the police or to the public prosecutor any knowledge of or the immediate danger to violence. The whole structure is well defined as the public prosecutor informs police officers, and then police officers will undergo adequate training by the start of the application of this law and be a competent police officer, who will then assess the risk or which danger lurks on the victim. He'll actually be the one who can determine an emergency measure towards the unsub. And so far, there have been some urgent measures, however, the problem is that in practice it is extremely rare to add an emergency measure of eviction of the perpetrators or these thugs from the apartment or house, precisely because a woman very rarely owns property, she is already owned by a bully. It is now defined by this law that a police officer can determine emergency measures that last 48 hours of handing over orders to the perpetrator and it is good that they can be extended to a maximum of 30 days. As I mentioned so far in the practice of protecting domestic violence was very rarely pronounced and those who were pronounced were unfortunately ineffective and simply there was no appropriate mechanism for monitoring the implementation of these measures. In practice, courts rarely resorted to this practice, most often under the ban of the victim’s approach and the ban on his further harassment. When it comes to the public prosecutor's behaviour, I'm talking about the current situation, the problem is that the attorney general has to very often reject the report, because in most cases the victim himself is being delayed, the long procedure is dropped, they don't join the criminal prosecution, and it's very difficult to collect evidence. So far, it's been a practice that public prosecutors haven't spoken to the victim but have left the job to the police. Often, victims of violence have been exposed to multiple victimization, so they have repeatedly had to convince that painful story of their own. It is therefore extremely important that they be protected throughout the process. So, for example, witnesses, family members of harassment, and indeed for them, this whole process is not painful, when they are so empowered to report violence. The next problem so far has been criminal policy, i.e. criminal provisions. According to the perpetrators, if I may say so, the courts were mild, since very often the perpetrators received only probation. Earlier, a certain symbolic amount that they paid for charity. These penalties are ineffective. We believe that the crime of domestic violence must be punishable by sanctions that are effective in proportion and which in the future would deter these crimes from being committed further. As mentioned by the Republic of Serbia, the Law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, so-called The Istanbul Convention made certain commitments as early as 2013 by ratification, in fact, the convention came into force in 2014. All governments that have ratified the Convention, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must comply with its standards, amend laws, take concrete practical measures and use all means to effectively prevent and combat violence. I mentioned that the basic principle of the convention is so-called. full commitment to the protection of victims, the processing and punishment of perpetrators. The pattern of non-response or slow, inadequate response, delayed response is completely contrary to the requirements of the Istanbul Convention, as well as to the standard of full commitment, because it is in fact that we are more concerned with prevention, which we have not dealt with in the past in order to effectively and timelyly prevent the continuation, i.e. the repetition of violence. Many of the problems I have raised, firstly in the approach of victims of justice, but also in the pursuit of perpetrators unequivocally point to this being more than necessary to pass such a law, amend the Criminal Law, and we need to change the policy of institutions in terms of violence against women and domestic violence. As pointed out, the existing normative framework in addition to providing double protection and criminal and civil law did not now produce satisfactory results. The identified underlying problems are the exposure of the victim to the prolonged danger in the period from the application of an act of violence to the initiation of appropriate judicial proceedings, the untimely and ineffectiveness of the protection of victims of domestic violence, prior to the initiation of proceedings against the perpetrators. The main problem is probably an insufficient preventive approach to solving the problem, so we respond in time and not when it is too late, and insufficient coordination of state authorities and institutions in preventing domestic violence. An insufficient number of properly trained personnel in the authorities responsible for these issues and the lack of a single record of reported cases of violence and measures taken and made. The bill that lies before us achieves a general goal, in fact, achieves strategic goals that are in the National Strategy to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in the family, so that, hopefully, after applying them effectively, a system of prevention will be set up. The normative framework is being improved. In any case, multi-resorship cooperation between the various institutions that I have mentioned and complements the system of protection of victims of violence is possible. In a generally unique way, the organisation and conduct of state authorities and institutions are arranged, and victims should be provided with quick and timely protection. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would like to point out another problem regarding the Criminal Code. I'd like to raise the question of what's-his-name. petty thefts. I'd like to remind all of us that by amending the Criminal Code, we've managed to reduce the definition of petty theft from 15,000 to 5,000 dinars. However, the aim of the SVM is to prosecute the perpetrators under official duty in the course of a misdemeanour procedure and when the value of the stolen property is below 5,000 dinars. Unfortunately, the current situation is such that if they were carried out at the expense of private property these acts of prosecution are still being taken on private charges, which is a real problem. We are aware that this issue can be resolved through simultaneous amendments to the Criminal Code and the additions of the Law on Public Order and Peace, in fact, should, which is not the case right now, because we do not have another law on the agenda. It is extremely important to solve this particular problem in the near future. So, in particular, petty thefts from the Criminal Code should be deleted and copied into the Law on Public Order and Peace, i.e. the introduction of a new offence for acts that represent stealing so-called “the Law on Public Order and Peace. ” petty theft, theft worth under 5,000 dinars, and criminal responsibility. I felt it was extremely important to stress this now and pay attention to this problem in the near future. To conclude, the SVM parliamentary group, the Party for Democratic Action, will support and vote in favour of the proposed draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6137	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6138	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a set of four laws before us, two of which are passed as new laws. The PUPS parliamentary group will support all four proposed laws, and with special satisfaction this law that norms the current legal void, it is the area of domestic violence, because it is one of the most significant laws, because it is the foundation of this society, because this society, as we know, and everyone else is based on family violence, and this issue of domestic violence is just one of the first and most difficult forms of family destruction and further, the growing escalating of it, because we have witnessed lately that violence in the family is fiercely, fiercely escalating. In addition, this law also obliges Serbia to fulfil its obligation as signatories of the Istanbul Convention and as signatories to make the National Strategy to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence operationalise and normise through the law. This assembly, I believe, ratified the convention in October 2013 and confirmed Serbia's decision to sign the convention. It has been a bit of a long time since we've come to this, but I think this is something and this law has been set up, and we've been proposed to provide the right conditions to radically change the current situation on this plan in a positive way. I think this law has done an extremely good thing, which is that it obliges not only the authorities and institutions of prosecution, but it employs wider social institutions to solve these problems. For the first time, we will have a situation that, with the police, the judiciary, the social centres, let's say, in the adoption of the law of the envisaged plan, the individual work plan to include the victims themselves. For the first time, we combine, therefore, the original knowledge of these problems with those institutions and state bodies that need to be dealt with on behalf of the state. But we also have one form, it's a co-ordinated group, a form that, for the first time, is bound by law to perform uniquely in the treatment and resolution of this problem. What's for sure is that this law, however well it's done, like all the other laws when they first come into force, will, I guess, very soon, I guess as soon as next year, and the sooner it's done, suffer changes and additions, because practice is going to ask us and it's good to do so. This does not mean that now not all the standards needed to solve this problem are maximumly foreseen, but is simply done at this point on the basis of the experiences that have so far been gained. I mean, let's just say, this law of the first things that he's going to have to endure as changes, because here in this proposal, I don't think there's enough, and that's a question of the preventive measures of the entire society to combat this problem. When I talk about preventive measures, then I also think about what should not be done, and it has been done so far, and what needs to be done, and it has not been done so far. To be clear, for example, we are about to have, I think, a difficult and large, persistent struggle with the role and functioning of the total mass of media in that area. It seems to me that in the right way, in terms of society's interest to suppress this monster, they don't act the right way. When something like that comes up, everyone's looking at it as financial, let's use that ugly expression, and it goes on forever. In doing so, as with other types of crime, it seems to me that the media don't have, I'm not saying that they, they should be the educational force of this society, but that they must also have an educational function, that's for sure, especially in this area. You have a situation that every day in all the media about such cases of domestic violence is written - completely distanced from the problem. It's just that the fact and factography are given without public influence, I said a little before, in an educational sense. Not to mention how much such a insistence on long-term treatment through the media of certain cases, as far as it should now be said by experts, how much this can inspire, so to speak, the perpetrators of criminal and other acts in the area of domestic violence. So, there is a lot of prevention that we are going to do as a society and we should not remain only on what this law includes, because it cannot cover everything, as we have so far had the void, because the laws, so far, existing, such as the Criminal Code, such as the Family Code and so on, that have touched this issue, but of course they did not cover it in an appropriate and broad and essential way. The PUPS Group will do everything it can and will contribute fully to the application of all these laws, especially this law, because, although society does not give sufficient attention, a large number of just old people, citizens of this country, in deep years of age, are subject to domestic violence and not just within the family. That's why we think there's another problem in the family that grows up, which is how to deal with the problem, please don't get me wrong, with the problem of contributing to the victim of domestic violence when it comes to parenting, contributing to the permanent trauma of children. For example, since we spoke here yesterday, since most often within the family women are subject to violence, they suffer, but it is not about what they suffer for themselves, they are obliged, not because of themselves to fight it, but because of children who see it all and remain traumatized and in this way, by the broad appearance of this problem, we are in fact disrupting the overall health of society. We raise generations that will be psychological and otherwise begin. That is why this has far-reaching social significance and social consequences. That's why we think that some things here, and that's where we're going to go with a few amendments, that some things aren't solved well. Let's just say, when a competent police officer orders to bring a possible perpetrator to a police station, an establishment, an examination and a finding that there is a direct danger of committing a crime in the family, he's giving an order on emergency measures. The person brought in refuses to take orders, and we do not foresee the measure of keeping him away, but what? We'll let him out. I'm not a lawyer, but it makes sense for me if such a person refuses to take orders, then for me it's a strong, strong indication that he's ready, regardless of the conversation, to carry out this work in the family. We didn't protect our family from him. We must provide for a measure that will protect the family, at least during that period until the court makes a decision on a longer detention. One more thing that's very important. I think we had to solve something even more precise and powerful in this law, which is in terms of material finance. We've got a so-called. Safe houses. It's just that a man wants us to shut them down. Why? Because this society until it secures the situation that the victim doesn't have to run away from his apartment but that the perpetrator must not and cannot prevent him from being in his apartment without the family staying in his apartment, we didn't finish the job. This is where they're supposed, when it comes to emergency measures, not to repeat those two, so he can't stay in the apartment, the other one can't get in touch, etc. Someone who tends to do what he does in the family, that even a child who is born harassing and committing violence, how can that man be asked to rot had he to conclude within himself – well, the court said, I won't contact, I won't go to an apartment, etc.? I think it's going to be on that plan and we're going to see how it works, and that's why it's important, this coordinating group that has representatives of all structures in its composition. I think it's a good thing that both from the court and the police structure is secured, so to speak, the pre-qualification of people. People who will be specialized, end some specialization, so they can fight successfully in this problem. That's what I wanted. Finally, let me just point out once again, that the PUPS Group will all-out support the proposals of all four laws, and with special satisfaction this one to combat domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6139	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6140	Thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws under discussion in the voting day. In any case, what seems to me to be the most important and most powerful in terms of four legal acts, it is the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. So in this discussion of mine, this law will be given special attention. Unfortunately, even in yesterday's and today's debate, we haven't heard what's fundamentally related to this law. Too many criticisms, and few arguments that support that this law can in practical terms say to bring very positive results. Why? Because this is the first time someone who is a proposing systematizes such a legal act, that is to systematicize certain illegal behaviours in terms of prevention in the way you have done it. That is why you have the support of doubtless and therefore the SPS Group considers this law to be a law that will give good results. What is very important is the fact that we must view this law as too much of a preventive law and that it has a predominant sense of prevention and that it aims to prevent it. In any case, the repression and in any case the incrimination of something already provided for in the provisions of the Criminal Code. I'll touch the law that I'm currently called for. But when I focus on this law, then I have to point out something that seems very important to me, mostly because of the ladies, or the female person, both in Parliament and in the state, ultimately and globally, if we're going to speak honestly. Although this law does not make discrimination and does not make a difference between male and female sex, it is logical that they are in the focus of this law of a woman, primarily because we have a completely patriarchal system and thinking and the relationships that are in force in the family, where there is a sub-premation – the suppression of a male relative to a woman who in any case is in a certain discriminatory position, given that there is no degree of power that could equalize her with the one who manifests that power, unfortunately through violence. This law aims to prove and show that domestic violence is no longer a private matter for the family and that domestic violence is no longer a personal matter for a family member. Violence in the family becomes a social phenomenon that needs to be dealt with by a state that needs to be dealt with by society and based on which to pass a proper law, just like the one we're discussing right now. Why prevention? Prevention because we have had one void that no one has filled so far, and that is the void from the moment when violence threatens, that is, the void when violence is committed and there is a danger that it will happen again, until the moment in a procedural and criminal sense of words those who represent the organs of prosecution and who continue to process the perpetrators of the crimes. We fill that void exactly the way it's defined. However, what I think should be pointed out are certain irregularities in the law, for which the SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments, I hope that you will carefully and carefully analyse these amendments and will ultimately adopt them. I'm going to come from what is the very beginning of the law, which is about somewhere and the purpose of the law, which is to recognize violence or identify a bully. According to us in the SPS parliamentary group, this is about the most sensitive detail or the most sensitive moment. Why? Because to recognize violence and violence is not enough just what involves reporting, studying reports or notifying that violence has been committed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, some physical or psychological clues that no doubt exist on the victim, but cannot be regarded as sufficient to even talk about violence in that true sense of the word. Why? So because many other circumstances must be examined and many other facts must be established, whether a person who is a suspect really is a bully, whether this person has violent intentions or not, is really directly threatened with the threat of violence or perhaps sinning. When these dilemmas are taken into account, there is a possibility that someone who is not trained enough, who is not specialised, comes out on the spot, acts on application, visits family or family households and sees that the situation is more or less normal, returns to the police station, there has been violence. Someone's been beaten up or God forbid it's been killed. There are, therefore, dilemmas on which it is difficult to give a logical answer. But in any case, regardless of all the dilemmas they are burdening and those that will directly apply the law and those who will act under that law in the sense of obligation to report violence, according to us in the SPS parliamentary group, the best solution is to respond immediately and that even those who may not be specialised as police officers, they would have to react as soon as possible, as quickly as possible and act in a way that implies the excessive protection of victims from violence, and afterwards by supporting victims of violence. What the Ministerial Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia particularly wants to show you is the fact that in the proposed text of the law you gave us, there is something where the victim of violence is excluded, and we don't think it should be excluded, which is about information, or information. In fact, nowhere in this law does it appear that the victim of violence should be informed of every stage, of every moment, of every detail of the procedure that is being conducted in order to prevent violence. What do I mean? First, in an order issued by a competent police officer, it would be quite logical to have personal information on the victim of violence. It's mostly a woman. It's not here. We've defined some form of order and said what it takes to order it to contain other than emergency measures that are expressed either cumulatively or individually. Why is there no personal data on the victim of violence, when the emergency measure is currently referred to as the victim of violence? Second, why is the victim of violence not informed by delivering orders? Why is the victim of violence not informed by a court ruling acting on a proposal from the public prosecutor? Why has the victim of violence not been informed of the decision to appeal? The victim of violence must be informed of everything because any information given to the victim of violence implies the first calming of the victim of violence, which is one, a reduction in the degree or intensity of fear that undoubtedly exists in the victim of violence by the bully and the third, so it's the beginning of recovery of the victim of violence. It's some kind of psycho-social stabilisation. It is logical, then, that there should really be something that involves notifying and victims of violence about every detail and every stage of the procedure. Next, the law stipulates that police officers who respond on application can even on their own at the request of a competent police officer to carry out an action to bring a potential perpetrator of violence. I repeat myself, if we stay on that they can bring themselves a potential perpetrator of violence, we open up the possibility, on the one hand, of abuse, on the other hand of volunteerism, on the third hand of instruction, and even of harmful consequences. Why am I saying this? I have just cited an example, a police officer who has not been educated, who has failed training that is really well defined in law, because one of the parts of this law gives a special weight of training, or specialization. Then we get into trouble so someone who shouldn't be brought in might be brought in. According to us, the police officer who intervenes, acting on a report of violence, would be obliged and that is the essence of something that will be an amendment that you will consider, is that I can suggest to the competent police officer that a potential bully be brought in, but not alone to bring him in and then bring the same person to the request of that potential bully. This would be the right and correct solution when it comes to the conduct of police officers who do not have specialisation, i.e. education. Next thing you know, when we're talking about this law, is that you should analyze specifically why the senior prosecutor declares complaints, not the attorney general? A senior prosecutor is not a party to the proceedings. The chief prosecutor decides whether he will submit an emergency motion. There's no D.A. here. I think that, in that direction, we should change and accept our suggestion about improving the quality of this law. In the end, two things that are also important in terms of this law. First of all, the deadlines you've foreseen for action are very short. I'm not sure we're in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, too, if there's anything we can do at all within those deadlines. It is defined that the primary public prosecutor is required to decide within 24 hours of the day of handing over the order or from the moment, or from a minute, from the hour, the handing over of the order to the potential bully on a proposal to extend the emergency measure, just 24 hours. In those 24 hours, a competent prosecutor would have to collect data, would have to collect certain expert assessments and evaluations. He would have to come up with some other facts that he would have had enough to finally decide on a proposal to extend the emergency measure. Can he do that within 24 hours? I'm not sure. Can the court, within 24 hours, make a decision that is related to the extension of the emergency measure, yet again to obtain and determine the facts, carefully analyse them, etc.? Again, I'm not sure that's possible within such short notice. These deadlines seem inadequate to me for all those who are defined as participants in the proceedings, regardless of whether it is the prosecutor or the judge. Twenty-four hours is a very, very small deadline. The law does not provide for penalties or sanctions relating to those other than those which do not report violence or the danger of violence. In the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, we feel it is necessary and that we cannot rely solely on a disciplinary procedure against someone, regardless of whether it is a judge, prosecutor, whether it is the director of the Social Labour Centre or anyone else. There must be a responsibility and there must be a threatened penalty for non-compliance with the obligations of the law. We have proposed, in accordance with the Law on Infringements, that these penalties be imposed and that this is indeed a good solution in the sense that fines will be punished by all those who do not comply with the obligations set out here. When it comes to the provisions of the Criminal Code, i.e. amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group gives full support to the introduction of new crimes, decriminalisation of certain crimes, especially new crimes in terms of economy. Indeed, intervention was necessary in this sense, and in this sense it was very successfully proposed to standardise certain crimes that were needed significantly earlier, not to lie, the abuse in privatisation was a crime that was to be introduced in 2001, when a scandalous privatisation law was passed that destroyed Serbia's economy, when alienation occurred in the absence of property of privatisation entities, when the greatest crime in that period of ten, perhaps a little and more years was being implemented, and only now is it responding. But it's good to react and it's good that the promoter predicted this kind of incrimination, or criminal act. Yesterday at the opening exhibition, you gave one explanation for a new crime, which is a crime of persecution. Obviously, the promoter has made a real effort to explain this criminal act in terms of his qualifications. However, here we must draw attention to a fact that I am not sure will in practice cause a good result, that is, not to challenge unequal court practice. Why am I saying this? First, the question arises as to the very idea of perseverance. Do you need to define it further? You made a suggestion when you think there's a mark of a crime. Let's interpret it. How do we determine that someone is following someone and finding that they are unauthorized to follow them for a certain period of time? What time period is that? Seven days, fifteen days, a month, six months, a year. We don't have it in the law. In practice, how will judges and prosecutors act if they bond for a certain period of time? Will it be widely interpreted or restrictive? Secondly, does any monitoring involve unauthorized monitoring and how to determine whether it is authorized or not? If there is another reason that has no motivation against legal action and no such initiative, then we have no unauthorized monitoring. Next, the traits or beings of this criminal act have been introduced which already exists as norms in the Criminal Code, which is a criminal offense to security, so there is a similar definition, which is a threat to the life, body and freedom of another person or to his close person. So, very similar, very close to a similar definition as the definition of a qualification of a criminal act of security endangerment. When it comes to the crime of sexual harassment, we draw attention to the defined concept of sexual harassment loses its meaning. It seems to me that there is no MP here who will in some way question what I am going to say, and that is that we are literally bombarded with verbal and non-verbal behavior that involves a kind of gazing of our dignity both in person and in sex and in each other, primarily by retaining our intimate and privateity through the scenic videos with lascivious scenes, with various media performances that have precisely this character of verbal and non-verbal behavior that represent the classical kind of full harassment. I'm talking about the media, I'm talking about the means of information that just this way are doing something that is meant to be illegal. If none of them are held accountable, how can they match a physical person who is threatened in this way? What is also important to point out is the criminal-legislative responsibility of a doctor of a medical institution, a very good system solution that declares a dead newborn to change the family condition, with us in the SPS parliamentary group thinking that this threatened punishment from the intended should be far more difficult, far more stringent. As far as crimes in the area of economy are concerned, I must point out something that represents a great pleasure of the entire profession, which is the norm of the criminal act of fraud in carrying out economic activity. This is not a good solution, but an extremely good solution because fraud and fraud are largely represented in this area, which is economic and economic activity. That's why you have strong support in that sense. In the end, I'd like to point out something that seems very important to me, which is when it comes to crimes against semi-freedom, I think punishments should be far, far more severe. What is being imposed here as a question informally as I debate, whether or not the law relating to genocide and Srebrenica, of course the issue is being raised as a question of importance for the state of Serbia and of course the UN tribunal has said it, and in this direction, the SAA does not want to escape any responsibility for any crimes committed, but also wants all crimes equally and equally interpreted and to be under the same archaic, equal to before the law, equal to those of all those who have committed crimes, no matter what nation they belong to, no matter what religion they belong to. In any case, I would like to point out that what you have proposed enjoys unquestionable support, that we will vote for the proposed set of laws and that we hope that you will analyse the amendments we have submitted and that at least some of the amendments will be accepted by one of our own motives, which is to improve the quality of this law, which is a unique goal for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6141	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, People's MPs and MPs, I would first like to refer at one point to yesterday's opening statement by Ms. Minister. I express great regret that yesterday in your opening address you actually read the pieces of the reasoning that we ourselves had the opportunity to read. I'm sorry you didn't, but perhaps you didn't receive that message from the Ministry's representatives who were on our committees. Besides seeing you Mr. Ilic, and I know for a fact that we've been discussing what's wrong and what's missing from the bill on the prevention of domestic violence, and with regard to that, I'm sorry that you didn't provide us with some of the necessary information yesterday, which is statistics, data from practices based on which these four draft laws were written. We are here today to represent, first of all, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, because we represent at least a third of women who are victims of domestic violence, and not only by partners as former or present partners, but also by some other family members and to prevent at all from fighting it, i.e. getting one quality law that will solve the problem of domestic violence. Because of them and of all the other victims who are victims of domestic violence, I also express a great regret that today in a united debate we are talking about this law that has almost nothing to do with laws that will talk about criminal acts in the economy. The only link they have is a proposal to amend and supplement the law concerning the Criminal Code. I am also sorry that in 2013, the National Assembly ratified the European Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which is known as the Istanbul Convention, and that we have had the opportunity to talk about the law concerning domestic violence from 2013 to today, and that this has not been done and that today, by an urgent procedure, this is one scandalous way of talking about a very important law. Far from the fact that other laws to be spoken of are not equally important, but we are simply sending a very bad message to the citizens. One of the main objections to the bill that we got is exactly what I said, that we didn't have statistics, or any data at all from the practices that were used, nor did we get them yesterday during the presentation, which I honestly expected would happen. There's no explanation for that either. The explanations are written, I must say, as a literary composition, so I found one expression that says – the purpose of detention is to conduct procedures, but also to give the victim a break. By law on preventing domestic violence, this is settled in Article 13. Now, I'm curious, since that sacrifice break only lasts eight hours, what does it even mean for you to have an expression of rest, which will last eight hours, anyway? What exactly were you thinking when you explained this article? Today it's at the family law station, whose practice proved it was bad. I agree it was supposed to change. However, there are some parts of this Family Law that were, to say the least, good, but yet we still don't have statistical data or data from practice to compare such a Family Law with what we now need to adopt. We have submitted, I think, about 45 amendments that are most in connection with the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I hope that, not only you, but also the MPs here, you will be conscious enough and, let me say, politically unscathed enough to think carefully about our proposals and that they will eventually be adopted. One of the better newspapers introduced by the Bill on the Prevention of Family Violence is the general duty to report violence to the police or to the public prosecutor. This duty at all applies not only to citizens, but also to all state authorities, and it is very important, it seems to me, that civil servants are obliged to report violence along with the other procedures that are currently under way. We welcome the described emergency measures that represent the normative expression of the so-called principle. Zero tolerance to violence. However, emergency measures are issued by a police officer and will be based on them to determine whether the perpetrator will be removed from the apartment temporarily by ban and whether he will be banned from contacting the victim within the next 48 hours. What worries is whether the primary public prosecutor in those 24 hours will have room to react, whether only a personal assessment of the police officer's risk for his reaction is sufficient, how effective it will be and how effective he will be on this basis. The second more serious complaint in this law is what if the unsub breaks one or both of the emergency measures that can be given to him? It is said that the perpetrator may be punished for 60 days in prison. Now in this part we come to what I was talking about at the beginning. We had one achieved level of legal protection of the victim who was resolved by previous laws and we are now changing that provision. We don't know why now, because we don't have any statistical data, I say again, or the practice data to confirm that we have to coordinate with the Istanbul Convention this part, and what do I mean? Article 22 The draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code has been proposed to remove Article 5 in Article 194 of the current Code and says - whoever violates the protection measures against domestic violence imposed by the court under the law will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and fines. Well, I'm asking you, why are we changing something that has proved to be a good criminal measure in 11 years? As regards the organisation of a coordination and co-operation group, one important requirement has been met, which is also in line with the Istanbul Convention, except for the competence of the members of this group must be well aware of the circumstances of the particular case. However, we noticed one flaw, and I also spoke about it on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, which is when it comes to the individual protection plan. Why is it that the victim, who is allowed to choose whether or not she will be involved in creating this individual plan of protection and support for the victim, cannot, in case she does not, determine a person of trust who would represent her interests and help solve the whole process? Basically, if we put her in a position where she chooses whether or not she will, and wants to protect herself at some point, she's going through the process that's behind her again, she's going through the victimization. This bill introduces a new concept, and this is the concept of economic violence that says victims of violence are deprived of economic resources for life and activity. I'm asking you now, one such victim when he comes into a situation to identify himself as a victim, in what way does the state find herself there to help her at the moment she is left without the basic means of living? It's not settled by this law at all, not at all. We also have an excellent amendment on the subject. I hope that as soon as we discuss in detail, we will discuss this amendment as well. One big part, if not the biggest part of the bill's bill, concerns records and says that the records will actually be kept by police officers, and I'm asking you why only police officers, if the victim has the opportunity to report to some other state authorities? Why is parallel records not kept, not only through the police administration, but not through, at least it's not indicated in the reasoning, nor by the members of the law? One, perhaps the worst thing, as far as the records are concerned, and the fact that the records are kept for only five years. Why is the records kept for only five years? Why isn't that record kept permanently? Do you think that, if it comes to spouses and family violence, they come into a divorce situation, again, since the most common situation is that women are victims of violence, enter a marriage community, for example, in 10 years' time, how will they know to commit, for example, some kind of domestic violence, in which way the first next victim will be protected? The explanation I received from Mr Ilic, the Secretary of State, and his associates who were at the meeting of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights on that day is that we would have to change some set of laws, or a series of other legal solutions that are currently valid. I ask you – why not? We're here to change laws and change what's bad practice. I don't know why you're looking at me, but it is, your colleague, I just remembered, sitting next to you talking about it. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Why are you looking at her? I mean, he's laughing, and on the board he's turned his eyes. You wouldn't believe it, but the camera couldn't record it. In the end, I would also refer to specialized training aimed at the legal and police team. I must express regret that in the law, and even in the explanation, it is not stated that training will only be done by the Judicial Academy and the Criminal Police Academy. It is not explicitly stated anywhere that this training will include the non-governmental sector which has made a major contribution to this topic, in this way, being explained, to say, and which has made a great contribution to writing the law itself. They're not just creators, let's say, institutions, like the first SOS phones, safe houses. I think their importance and great experience would contribute to the future training of police and judicial officers. There is another law before us today, a bill of law, which is the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which should replace the one adopted in 2002 and which has been changed several times. I agree that's what's supposed to happen. However, I do not agree that it should be today, in a united debate along with a law dealing with the prevention of domestic violence. These two bill proposals have nothing to do with each other, and I don't know at the point where the law is done today, because they're both equally important. What I have time to look back on, and later on, my colleague will be involved in a further debate, is that this law introduces a new concept, which is the concept of financial forensics, and it is described in this bill, Article 19, which says – in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and Special Departments of the Higher Public Prosecutors under this law, the service of financial forensics can be educated. So he can, but he doesn't have to. We do not see anywhere in the members of the law, nor in the explanation that this member of the law has any binding character. Also, it is not exactly explained who will, when and in what way, certify future financial forensics. We do not know whether this certification will be internationally recognised and what it will mean to us unless it is internationally recognised. I'd like to hear something more and more accurate than the Justice Department's representative, no matter who might tell us more about it. I'm afraid if we don't know this well enough, we'll only get forensics on paper. My favorite part, when I read these laws, and these are the financial resources needed to pass these laws. In fact, when you wrote an explanation, when you even sent us a bill on the prevention of domestic violence, one item says that no means are needed for adoption, or for the application of this law. However, for the application of this second law that I was talking about, which is the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to deal with organised crime, corruption, terrorism, it is said that in 2018 it will be necessary to single out a little less than 613 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm asking you now -- if both laws rely on the fact that a reorganisation is being carried out within the state service, how is it possible that one law is not costing anything, and that for the other we have predicted that we need something slightly less than 613 million dinars? Why am I asking that? The largest items in the planned budget for this second law relate to hiring new people and renting rooms. How is it possible, if practice tells us or at least what we get as a message from the media, when we hear how the victims of domestic violence go through the process again, is that we don't have enough people to deal with this problem, that we don't have the intended item to hire new people and provide new rooms, if nothing else, for safe houses? It is not disputed that one law will cost 613 million dinars. I find it controversial that any law, when you put in an item that you don't need funds from the budget, is true. I find that controversial. How is it possible for the adoption of brand-new laws, which will concern security, at this point, women, children, any family member, to cost nothing? So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6143	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6144	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning of my address, I would like to thank all the MPs who supported the Justice Department's campaign "Disable violence" and put on shirts, at least during... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Is the debate over?) No, I answer. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: On this? ) What is important and what I want to tell you, and as far as the statistics you mentioned are concerned, the Ministry of Justice certainly has statistics on domestic violence when it comes to penalties. I hope you have statistics when you say that something good has been applied, so now these amendments to the law, we're ending it. What is important, when it comes to domestic violence, can be said to be an extremely mild criminal policy of the courts, especially if the relationship of all convicted verdicts is observed, is a small percentage where the general sentence of prison was imposed, and the high percentage was conditional convictions. In 2015, a total of 1,859 convictions were issued, of which there were only 660 prison sentences, and 1,186 were suspended sentences. So I wouldn't say that something in practice was good and that it showed good results. Moreover, in 2014, the relationship between parole and prison sentences was significantly higher, even up to 72% of the conditional convictions imposed. As far as criminal policy is concerned, the data is here, I can give it to you if you want the entire statistics, so neither the working group has been doing it by heart nor without statistical data, and certainly the autonomous women's centre that has had its data and delivered to work on this bill. As far as the records are concerned, I don't think you're right, because all you've said is that a police officer keeps records of this law on the prevention of domestic violence, there are a number of records. First of all, there is a competent police department that keeps records, a basic court that keeps records, records of public prosecutors and records of a social work centre. Any authority involved in the implementation of this law shall keep its records, shall have access to those data which are necessary precisely for the implementation of this law. I have to tell you that in the original draft of the law, this record was meant to be permanent, but the trustee gave us his opinion and told us that the records must have a limited duration and that exactly sustainability is not allowed. For this reason, the ministry limited the deadline to five years, primarily in view of the deadlines prescribed for eradicating the consequences of the conviction. So we had to keep an eye on how many criminal conviction records are being kept, and that deadline, when it comes to records, could not be longer than when it comes to criminal convictions. That's the only reason we can't go out to meet what you're talking about right now. When it comes to the second law, which concerns the responsibility of the organisation of the state authorities in countering organised crime and the introduction of forensics, I must point out that Miroslava Milenovic, a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, was a member of the task force and participated in the same. She's one of the few who has a license for financial forensics, and the Justice Ministry has just made a solution that has made it possible for experts in these cases. So she took part in the work group, and I have no doubt she contributed to what these provisions of the law look like today. Do we have enough forensics to find them? First of all, it is certainly one of the ways that they are licensed experts who, in a certain procedure, get a permit or a solution from the Ministry of Justice to be able to deal with these affairs. When it comes to the necessary means, you said that only one law requires the necessary funds for its realisation. That's right. Since if you see that the structures and organisations of the authorities acting and that there is a need for the introduction of four other special departments in senior public prosecutors in Belgrade, Kraljev, Nis and Novi Sad require an increased number of employees and an increase in the number of public prosecutors who will act there, that is why we need to allocate additional funds. It is an explanation that follows a financial justification that is primarily related to the Ministry of Finance so that budgets can be created in the coming period. As for the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, we believe that there is sufficient capacity for the existing number of public prosecutors or police officers to act in accordance with this law and no additional means are needed, and the training to be conducted will be carried out through certain programmes that will be implemented by the Judicial Academy. We do not need additional funding for this, because it will be financed from the relevant projects that the Ministry of Justice has.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6145	Thank you. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have been insisting for 25 years to codify criminal law in Serbia. The Kingdom of Serbia has had codified criminal rights and our state authority is unable to accept this task. That's why it happens that we are constantly getting new legal projects that contain new crimes, sometimes fabricated crimes, which violates the legal security of citizens. In order to guarantee the legal certainty of citizens, Criminal law must be codified, which means that all its standards are mutually harmonised. We have here some expressions that we didn't have in criminal law that don't even know the criminal-law theory. I won't talk about all four laws, although we Serbian radicals will vote against all four, my colleagues will talk about three laws and I will talk about the proposed amendment of Article 387 of the Law to which Article 5 is inserted. That amendment has been very unprofessionally made. Mrs. Minister should take care of the next changes, hire professional people to do the job. First I'm going to bring out what's not really right here, and then I'm going to do the essentials. It stands - who publicly approves, denys the existence or significantly reduces the weight of a particular crime. What does that mean? Who publicly approves? Public approval by a public authority means a state body. We can't do what we're used to in a simple colloquial speech to turn directly into a law, so one says publicly approves of rape, publicly approves of this, publicly approves of it. Right public means state. That's what we learned from law school, Arsic. You don't have to turn your head. So here's the question of authority who can approve. Approves the one who gives the permission. There was supposed to be something else standing here. Whoever encourages or encourages it is punishable by law. Public and direct incentive to commit crimes. Furthermore, there is a sanction here to deny the existence or significant reduction of the most serious crimes, the international character. This means that criticism of the judicial authority is forbidden. The court says this guy committed genocide, punished himself like that, and now I can't say the court has no idea, the court has made a mistake, there's no genocide, there's no sign of the crime scene of genocide. What does that mean? I will prove better in every place than any lawyer because in Serbia I am the most competent for international criminal rights that there were no genocides or elsewhere in Srebrenica. Now this permanent International Criminal Court from one African state to another goes and punishes both genocide for this and that crime, and you think it's a court that has authority. The African Unity Organisation shall request that the court be abolished or announced to withdraw its Member States from it. A recent warning was sent in public and in writing. How can someone who denies the existence of a crime be punished? If someone's convicted of killing 20 people, I say it's not him. Here with the trial of Djindjic, those who are condemned are not the main ones among them. They're different. They don't want the state looking for who the others are. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from town: Help. I'm helping, Chado, helping. Here, help us together. Who killed Dusan Spasojevic? The emissaries are getting it. Please, be quiet. Who killed Milet Lukovic Godfather? They were arrested alive, heard under beatings and shot. (Zoran Zovkovic, from the place: How do you know? I know, I've explored...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6147	I ask the messengers not to speak to each other personally. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6148	Zivkovic, you're covering it up. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6149	Mr. Seselj, go back to your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6150	Shut Zivkovic up, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6151	There's no need for me to... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: I'm covering up? You're gonna shut me up? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6152	If I come to you there, you'll be silenced. Furthermore, the denial of existence must be allowed as a criticism of the judicial authority. We have here in some people who are anti-Serbian-oriented common ground to say - there can be no denying some Hague verdict because the court has so determined or - there can be no criticism here, we cannot interfere in the work of the judicial authorities. That's not true. The executive authority shall not interfere with the work of the judicial authorities by giving them orders or by seeking their responsibility for certain proceedings. But the essence of the principle of sharing power is that three branches of government are constantly criticising each other. That's the point. Of course, any government must be available to criticise citizens or significantly reduces the severity of a crime, whether genocide, whether it is a crime against humanity, etc. Furthermore, through the analysis of this text itself, I am saying why this is unprofessional, it is said – genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed against a group of persons or members of a group that is determined on the basis of race, skin color, religion, origin of state, national or ethnicity. This is where a papaziania was made. They don't have all these crimes matching features. Genocide as the most serious crime, as a crime against crimes, could have elements of crime against humanity, but there is one feature that separates it from all crimes against humanity. This feature is specific intent, dolus specialis. This particular intention is only sought in the criminal part of genocide. A man can participate in the murder of a million people. If he can't be proven by genocide, he can't be convicted of genocide, but he can commit crimes against humanity as a minor crime and if punishments can always be the same. So this isn't how this is supposed to work. In order to prove the crime of genocide next to that dolus, a specialist must prove that someone has destroyed or tried to destroy an entire racial, national, ethnic or religious group. And that's all the genocide convention says. Don't spread it. What kind of skin is that now? The skin doesn't mention the Genocide Convention. Or a state or something even more similar. It's not there. He can't even stand in our law. We can't change the definition of genocide now. It must be what's specified. So, a whole or a significant part of the group, not an individual man. You say against a group of persons or members of a group. Not every group can. There could be no genocide in Srebrenica for three basic reasons. The first reason only prisoners of war were shot there. No woman was killed. No child has been killed. Maybe all the prisoners weren't soldiers, but they were capable of war. I don't justify it. I also condemn it as a huge crime and as a huge shame that has not been inflicted on the Serbian people. And I first publicly called the chief organizer on the ground of that crime before going to The Hague. So I absolutely don't approve, but it can't be called genocide. Then, it can't even be that 7,000 were killed, and it's not, it's been around 1,200, that seven thousand were killed, it's not a significant number compared to the protected group, and a group of BiH Muslims who, according to the 1991 census, were approximately two million 181 thousand. Nenad Milic, from the scene: Who could they kill? They couldn't kill anyone. It's not allowed to kill. If they kill already, then an estimate of what a significant part of the group is. And this is not a significant part of the group and they say that in the Hague judgments, but they say -- that group had symbolic meaning, it had this, it had that. They enter the sphere of politics and thus cover up the misapplication of the Genocide Resolution. In particular, there can be no genocide because no specific intention has been proven. Those specific intentions they say appeared on July 13th. That is what they say in The Hague judgments both with Krstic and Tolimir, Popovic, etc. The International Court of Justice accepts that. So 13 showed up with someone's intention and they immediately set out to do genocide. Is that in one head, in two heads, in five heads, etc. It's impossible to shake it up now, but there's all the evidence that the Serbian army's intention wasn't even to enter Srebrenica. She suddenly ran into the defenceless Srebrenica, and this has been proven and this is confirmed by the International Court of Justice. Furthermore, what is characteristic of the crime against humanity? There's no specific intention to be sought. There's just an ordinary intention to exist. However, the intention of discrimination is required. Crime against humanity is a crucial discrimination. War crimes as the mildest among these constitute a crime of violations of traditional international war law, killing prisoners of war, harassing wounded people, etc. There are a whole series of individual crimes that are classified into this. A permanent international court has committed a register of international crimes involving the crimes of genocide, including aiding in genocide, etc., then criminal acts of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and has yet to commit another crime, the crime of waging an aggressive war, aggression. It's the first time an international war law codification has been carried out. Your experts didn't even look at this. Well, at least from this new codification of international humanitarian law they could accurately transmit certain formulations, and even if they saw us, they had some more blanks, so that it would be filled in when one act was consulted that caused world attention. He was no better than he was. Now, it's said, this is now one fence, because your group of lawyers was probably somewhat aware of it, so it's a real fence, so it's only punishable if it's committed in a way that can lead to violence or cause hatred against such a group of persons or a member of that group, if these crimes are convicted by a judicial verdict in Serbia or the International Criminal Court. First, to lead to violence, then we would have at every football game the execution of that crime. When you look at it, it's not a crime, because those who commit it have neither a specific nor a regular intention to commit a crime. Simply, a group of people are not thinking about how dangerous it is, how evil it is, etc., is running – knife, wire, Srebrenica. Or, on the other hand, Muslims respond to them, etc. When they sing, I have only one wish to slaughter the Duke of Seselj, I don't mind, and many of you would be horrified if it were you, which is why you should have been more careful in formulating this member. Furthermore, it is said – if those crimes are found by the court's judicial verdict in Serbia or the International Criminal Court. Now they're your superior authority, and they're not. First, the judgments our courts made are not reliable. Here, with the verdict for alleged perpetrators of crime on the Sheepchare, they don't know what to do. A group of people convicted. There are some among them who are perpetrators, but there are those who have nothing to do with it, and the organisers are not identified because the organisers are still under the protection of both the state authorities of Serbia and the foreign factor. Among them is General Alexander Vasiljevic, who organised a crime in Ovcara. He retired three colonels, put on their uniforms and sent them to do it. And everybody's quiet. There's evidence. As for Rodoljub Milovic, there is evidence that he killed Dusan Spasojevic himself. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: Okay, come on. Don't, Chado, don't defend Rodoljub, then you're putting yourself in some awkward situation. Come on, either I committed a crime of accusing Rodoljub Milovic and this Spaso Vulevic or they did what I say they did, can't be true somewhere in the middle. What did they do at this trial? They directed everything. In The Hague, I published all this and published a book of documents titled "Politic partnerluk of the whore Del Ponte and the whores of del Kostunica". At the time it was done. Now they let people out of prison, but they don't know what to do, how to continue the trial. Continue by arresting Vasiljevic while he is still alive. So a judicial verdict is not absolute authority. It is the authority for the conduct of state authorities, which means to provide for its execution, to keep convicts in prison, to confiscate property, if seized property, etc. But as far as the public's concerned, there must be no forbidden sphere, and it's under public court. As far as the International Criminal Court is concerned, I know here what's most flagrant, violation of international law, they've taken three minutes, so count it on me, please, they've been breaking my word. As for the ad hoc tribunal, there is no more in the world of a serious lawyer who will not critically approach their verdicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6153	You're finishing up, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6154	Are you the witness that they took two, three minutes from me now? I'll bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6155	No one took one minute from you, not at any time. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6156	Here, your MP group is my witness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6157	Sure, finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6158	Let me just finish this with the permanent International Court of Justice and the UN tribunal. The Hague tribunal is in legal theory and torn apart. But the International Court of Justice, according to BiH's case against Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro, as the country used to call us, is calling exclusively for the UN tribunal's verdicts and where The Hague claims to have proved genocide, they accept it. The Hague has only established genocide, allegedly, in Srebrenica. Anything else that has moved the prosecution has failed, and that remains, and ours have made no mistake, so they have not disputed the competencies of the UN tribunal and its legality. What's going on with this permanent International Criminal Court, which you consider to be an authority here? They repeat the practice of The Hague tribunal, but not to us now, but to poor blacks in Africa, who have no one to defend. As far as Srebrenica is concerned, the world's main authority for genocide, English Professor Shalabas claims there can't be an absolute word about genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6159	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6160	Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that sometimes because of the need for some elemental order in the Assembly, the politics of those who lead the session to go over something that I don't think we can go through today. Ambassador Seselj has the right to lead his own policy, but at no point must the institutions, where we are all together, ignore the obligation he has to this society, which she has taken on the basis of the role we are giving ourselves, to protect the system of values. I appreciate the minister's courage to stand behind this law and this member, although I think it's at least her obligation, but it represents the government. This isn't the story of Srebrenica. This isn't the story of Podujevo. This is a subject where we can see whether we are humans or if we are the animals that have caused us such a great shame that we are ashamed today, tomorrow our children will be ashamed of ourselves, unless we make a difference between us and them. Here, here, in front of the parliament wall of Serbian wages, thousands of photos of killed and missing Serbs with KIM. Am I wrong to say that? Are they the victims of someone's crime? Will tomorrow live in this country by having sex and arguing in accordance with party interests whether it is allowed or not to kill in the way they were killed or the way people were killed in Srebrenica? The lie is they didn't kill children there. I buried a 10-year-old kid this July with my father. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: "Sahrani"? Where? It is, the remains, in Srebrenica. We've adopted the Srebrenica Resolution here and that parliament is binding and please, Mr Arsic, I don't want to argue about this. This is not a platform where we build our own policy, but we have to raise our children in a different way than we were raised. If this country had been sanctioned, there would have been no "wall of wages" in front of the congregation, and we would not be blushing as we blush when we look at what some of us have done by causing the least harm to ourselves, especially great and lasting damage to our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6161	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I also asked for a word. Well, there's no in the system that you asked for a word. But, Mr. Seselj, you must ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6162	I hope to have a television show with Cedo Jovanovic once, so let's first discuss the circumstances of Djindjic's murder, and then these wars behind us. Two things must be separated here – legal approach and political approach. According to legal access, it was a crime, but it wasn't genocide. The elements of genocide prescribed by the 1946 Genocide Convention are not met and cannot be genocide, and therefore the Jews are the most rebelling. It's not genocide. The genocide was what was over the Jews, which was over the Serbs in NDH, which was over the Armenians, etc. There was a bloody civil war here, many crimes were committed, but there was no genocide, there were war crimes and crimes against humanity. So, if we're going to legally set things up, we're going to have to clear this up first, and then we can politicalize what kind of war it was, one or the other, civil war and who's to blame for causing war. It is also important who is responsible for causing war, I guess whoever first started killing, and these were not Serbs in neither the territory of Croatia nor the Bosnian-Herzegovina federal unit. Serbs were the first victims, in Kosovo Serbs were the first victims. So it's the one who caused the war, and when civil war is caused, crimes happen on both sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6163	You're finishing up, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6164	Ceda's making up that he was burying someone, maybe, but it would be a question if he really went to the funeral, whether it was the face of Muslim nationality, Serbian, Croatian or some fourth. You know, there's a reasonable doubt that there's also animal bones found somewhere, so they're sorted there like they're human.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6165	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on line, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6166	I'll stay on this, Mr. Seselj, because I don't want to give you any cause for humiliation and the assembly and the whole country. Where you and I would discuss, I'm an atheist, but I would do anything in the world that I could do to get you in court and talk to you there, the way I talked to those you worked so well with. I live here, and I hope that it is not put, in a legal sense, a point to everything that relates to March 12th 2003, that a procedure that is still open will be completed, and is related to the political background of the murder and tragedy of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6167	Please, fellow MPs, let Mr. Jovanovic finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6168	As for the idea and ambition to make our parliament the tribunal of the UN tribunal, in which everyone who insists on reason and truth will be offended, we will stand up to it. Once again, this member of the Criminal Code refers, unfortunately, to what happened, to Srebrenica and to the crimes committed in Kosovo, but we as the Assembly are obliged to stand in the protection of our courts, for example, who have made bold and uncompromising judgments, removing that mark from our faces. The country's courts ruled on war crimes both in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's responsible for the Smurfs? Who are those who were killed there? Who's responsible for the North? That's what this is about. They're our citizens. They're supposed to be thought of today. And this madness, that point to be put. I don't want to discuss it with you at all. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6169	You want a replica again? Then there'll be a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6170	The Serbian Radical Party is very interested in clarifying the murder of Zoran Djindjic. And today we think of him as a person and a politician all the worst, but we're very interested, because of the state, to make that clear. Until the murder is clear, the Serbian mafia will not be broken. All those involved still have certain levers of power and power and influence in their hands. One of them killed Milet Lukovic, a C.I.A., Special Anti-Terrorist Unit. Who did they kill on? Let's see, Dusan Mihajlovic, let's see Nebojsa Covic, and what Mr. Zivkovic would have to know better than I did because the English pressured Covic to take over the government after the murder. Is it true? It's true. What was the interest? And you can see that. Here, I'd offer the Legion and Star Abolism, pardon, but to tell everything they know about me, too. About me too, of course. They were coming to see me. I was persuaded not to go to The Hague, that they would defend me in The Tower and that the Sixth Fleet couldn't do anything to me. I don't hide any secrets. As far as Žarko Korač is concerned, his role here could be enlightened. He wouldn't be so happy. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6171	Thank you. Seeing as this is going the wrong way, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are passing and changing a series of laws and laws need to be changed, to be adopted new ones, to be used by all citizens and, unlike the party of the former regime and some other previous authorities, to try to pass laws that will have as few holes as possible. Because it's my opinion that when they passed the laws, they looked to evenly deploy holes through which they could get through themselves. The laws are the best ones to apply. I'm sorry for the laws that sanction divination, return, looking at the ball, etc. Today they don't apply, if they were used here, some would defend themselves with immunity. So we're going in a row. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I have to ask, since domestic violence includes child abuse against parents, how are we going to enforce this law on this matter, since I am not a lawyer and I am not a specialist? That violence is increasingly present. The poverty and unemployment that remained behind the former regime's party and gave birth to misery and poverty that is unsustainable for looking outside, let alone inside a family. It's the main generator, in my opinion, there are others and in the organized societies there's violence in the family, but this is how in the poor society that we were left with, the main generator of domestic violence, it's me, poverty. Imagine a father who lost his job during the rule of the former regime's party, a mother who also lost her job, who instead of well-sighted families became social cases, who went from income to expenditure. Imagine what they are to your children and imagine an increase in crime, even among young children, exposed on the street. Is that the same kind of violence applied inside the house, inside the walls of the apartment, and is there violence of children against parents, and we can read about it in the newspaper? So I believe that in the application of this law, we should pay particular attention to this detail so as not to repeat a less protected sex, etc. I claim to be a poor man. So, always men, in terms of family violence, are always like that, are less considered victims, although I think that's already close to half-half. Don't think I'm saying this from personal experience, I've been watching. There are good things here, especially about bankruptcy. It's bad when justice is late, it's bad when the laws are a little late. We can't historically apply to the past, as it can't return, those crimes that will be applied from now on, they didn't exist before, if they weren't one minister who led 14 firms into bankruptcy, could hire his firms and thus reduce the bankruptcy mass, played trustees, to hire their businesses, businesses, capital, etc. And these screams are most likely the result of poor looking at the ball, perhaps something has appeared to them. Then he wouldn't be able to write – withdraw the order to dig up the bankruptcy I've been working on. So that was the rule, so some gave themselves the right when they came to power. They tend to discipline the council, place their man, leave the application, then come and write to the prime minister – withdraw the order to dig in the bankruptcys I've been working on. And he came and said, "This is being abolished." Please make Ivana Matic the new director. Or he comes and says, "My and Cvian's MP group, which didn't even exist, will certainly be part of the future ruling coalition because the Americans have made this a condition, etc. I should take over the reunited Ministry of Business and Finance, and my closest associate, A.S., as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. After Jorvanka Tabakovic is appointed ambassador after the election. If some of the actions against the economy, the damages to the bankruptcy existed, there could have been a lot to say by those in Delta legal, from 15 companies, from the sugar company Dimitria Tucovic, etc. It's a good thing those works exist now. It's bad that they didn't exist before, and now those who had holes in the law, through which they ran like them. It's good to see a smile on my face, etc., but it'll become another law, so I say it's good, which will sanction that kind of smile. Speaking of slaves, women's rights. So, domestic violence can be from children to parents, from parents to children, it's all domestic violence, from a wife to a husband, from a husband to a wife, but it's mostly about the violence of a husband to a woman. When it comes to slaves. It's this representative of theirs who came here at 11:30 a.m. to get a child's sleep, a party of the former regime. (Tatyana Macura, from the post: Chairman, what does this have to do with the subject? ) He indicated that women are slaves etc. Especially lately, as if we had been ruled before by Martians, and not by these, someone calls them ducks, I don't use that term, because these are some better people, which they stayed out of parliament. Well, let's see these slaves. This is a photograph of their president today, they often change it, so when they talk about slaves, I offer to show them that photograph, their present-day president with a fat tompus, a abdominal singer, money in his bra. Does he humiliate the female...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6174	Please, what does that have to do with the agenda, the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6175	With domestic violence. They said women are like slaves and now I'm talking. (Tatyana Macura, from the place: give him a warning. I don't understand. You must silence that lady there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6176	Please adjust your discussion to the subject. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6177	Ma'am, don't be nervous. This is an authentic photo. This is what domestic violence is about, a woman gets jealous, she beats her husband, why it's about the slave money, right? Why do they concern themselves in the bra, and she says poor things? I'll play you, Shule. (Tatyana Macura, from the post: Chairman, please... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6178	Excuse me, Mr. Ristichevich. Why are you throwing? (Tatjana Macura, from the place: How are you not ashamed? Do you allow such speeches in the National Assembly? And you determine whether it's a theme or not? (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: You had a conference in T-shirts dressed, we're talking about such an important law. Shame on you! Mrs. Macura, I give you a warning. Tatjana Macura, from the city: Because no one is committing violence against you, and you are doing this to us as you throw, insult, and make it impossible for us to do so. (Tatyana Macura, from the place, give him a warning! Go on, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6179	You have to give me back this time, because this group has never had enough of what my peasants would say, has grown into a beast. Don't throw it at me anymore, don't swear at me, poor man. The lady told me all sorts of things. There's witnesses. This is called verbal violence over, here, I've turned out to be a weaker sex here. I'm asking you all if you're allowed to tell the truth here? Did anyone talk about women as slaves yesterday? Was that said by the party representative of the former regime? Yes, it is. Do I have the right to speak the same way? Of course I do. I've shown that their current president was in a position that one woman, whom I highly respect, was in that very position of some slave girl who had to play you, little man. Balsha, they often change the president, so I have to... Let's move on. This is the Union of Justice during the rule of the party of the former regime. Is this violence against women? (Tatyana Macura, from the post: Well, the chairman, you should react. You're a woman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6180	What do you want me to do, humiliate someone?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6181	When women don't let me talk about violence against women. Is it violence against women when you put women in the fridge to cool them down, to serve them as food tanks, coasters? Here's a photo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6182	Ambassador, I'll give you your time. Go ahead, MPs, into the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6183	You throw away some tickets.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6184	You can't face the fact that there are politicians who treat women. Well, that's how you were raised, shame. It doesn't make sense. This has nothing to do with democracy. Well, you don't have a shred of tolerance in other people's opinion, a shred of tolerance. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: And this is an opinion? ) No, these are facts and evidence that any of the perpetrators in Serbia's political life treat women. How can I forbid an MP to do this? (National MPs of the DJB Group earn in front of the SNS Group bench) Let them create a one-day media scene. (Tatyana Macura: Shame on you, too, all of you who put on those shirts. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6185	I wasn't even in the zoo like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6186	I just warned the SRS and Dwri yesterday. They beat you, absolutely. DJB MPs do not interfere with speakers and threaten the freedom of speech of MPs. I'm taking a break of 10 minutes until order is established in the O.R. I ask MPs from the DJB Group to stay away from MPs from other parliamentary groups and not cause incidents here. I ask MPs from the DJB Group not to provoke MPs from other parliamentary groups and not to cause incidents. I repeat, I ask MPs from the DJB Group to stay away from MPs from other parliamentary groups and not cause incidents in parliament. If you step away from MPs from other parliamentary groups, we will be able to continue the session and discuss the law. They didn't come to you, you came to them, and don't cause incidents of that kind. You may disagree, you cannot enter into the face of the MPs of other parliamentary groups. You're doing this on purpose. You went there and stood in front of an MP who spoke. Don't distort reality. The transmission is going all the time, and there's been a glimpse of who came near whom and what your intentions are. Don't make the parliament of the Republic of Serbia a circus. I'm amazed by the behaviour of an MP group who claims to be a citizen province of our people here, I'm amazed. You have no right to do this. You might like something or not like someone's speech. (Ana Stevanovic, from the scene: The pictures are embarrassing to show in parliament. They're embarrassing photos. They're embarrassing actors in that photo, whether you like it or not. And don't throw it away. I ask the MPs to sit down and continue the debate about the law, because apparently someone in the day of tolerance and our intentions to discuss this law, we pass an important law that will prevent violence, they want to reason with it. Don't be an accomplice. Don't be an accomplice. I'm talking to everyone. Peace, cold heads, let it provoke anyone who wants to provoke. Their way of fighting is to dissipate parliament. It is obvious that we have parliamentary groups who want to dissuade parliament. I'm not giving it up. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: You have no right to... I have rights. It's a break and it's up to me to take care of the order in this House, as long as I can do it. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Go to the press conference... Don't throw it away. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: You throw! Don't throw it away. (Gordana Comić, from the place: The break is. ) Thank you, Mrs. Komic, for becoming extremely tolerated at the outpouring, shouting and disquieting and rudeness of certain MPs. (Gordana Comić, from the place: The break is. ( ) Thank you for becoming suddenly tolerated. You're the vice president. No, you didn't hear that we kept working, that we were trying to do that. [[Gordana Comić, from the place: Well, it's a break.]] (Gordana Comić, from the place: You didn't say. It is terrible that someone justifies everything that has been happening in this House in the last few days. It keeps coming from the left side, all the time. So, the physical attempt and disabling of this House's work. I'm shocked. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Go to the press conference, so talk about it. You have no right to abuse a pay phone. Every day you do something just for the media. I have not heard here in this House, if Gordana Comic determines that we are in a break, and I have the right to say something in that break, I have seen no argument of political nature, but violence, insult of guests, other parliamentarians, approach, challenge, attempt to create incidents. How far does that lead? Where does that lead? What's this all about? Do you think it will harm the ruling majority? You're hurting all of us here in Parliament. You're embarrassing Parliament here. Serbian citizens are watching and wondering what we need this for. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. It's a break. She told Gordana Comić it was a break. So there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure in the break. We sit and talk. There's no replica. I throw as much as you throw. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You have no right. I have rights. I have rights because I am an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am an MP elected by Serbian citizens to sit here and watch what you do with parliament. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Who works? What's he doing? You. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Which everyone? You, all of you. Finally, I hear one political argument, and it is not violence, that it is not a scream, that it is not an insult, that it is not the drive of an ambassador from this House. (Bosko Obradovic throws. I won't give you my word. I'm not the Marinika Tepic to give my word to everyone. Just to determine how much time you have left and give you back five minutes after you were physically disturbed to continue your exposure. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Poor." ) Not poor, poor, but it represents the citizens of Serbia here. You are not the only citizens of Serbia. MP, please, you have ten minutes and continue your exposure. You have the right to show examples. I'm not an MP who's been having this discussion, but you have the right to show examples of what violence against women means to you. Here you go. Save the pictures too, and show examples of how others treat women.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret an incident I didn't participate in, which I don't think I caused anything. I regret and forgive those who cursed my mother, but I must inform them that my mother is motionless and that she lies in a room at 77 years old, but I forgive her again. I forgive them for not knowing what they were doing at that time. I must ask all MPs – is it allowed to tell the truth here? I think so. I was complaining that I wasn't telling the truth. I practice using photos that I download from public journals on the Internet. So I'm not a spy. Because of domestic violence and because yesterday a member of the former regime spoke of slaves, I was saying that it was their property, that their president today, at a time when he wasn't president, used women for that very purpose. He was a military minister back then. So, I also said that those who passed laws or proposed new legal methods, this is a union of justice, that they cooled down women... I thought there would be female solidarity, not that Mrs. Macura, whom I respect, would come here to spit on me. I thought she'd be solidarity with these women who were cooled so the food wouldn't heat up. So the service was during a celebration held in honor of the judiciary. So, those who need to tell us where the holes are in the law and how to stop this. I don't understand why it's against this kind of behavior being sanctioned and never doing it again. Women to be slaves, food mats, it's unacceptable for me. That's exactly what a member of the former regime's party that I've agreed with and I love that they don't act like Martians anymore. Here he comes again, and what he came in here today at half past 12 to see this, he's a little sleepy, but I appreciate what he's encouraged me to bring this out. Let's move on. On the subject of corruption, it is very difficult to implement this, Ms. Justice Minister or Justice Minister. The group that went out and the MP who was cursing here, you have a position that they're well deployed in the Anti-Corruption Council have two members. It's Rodney's lawyer, the one who took those applications off him in court, Dusan Slepcevic. He is the leader's lawyer "never had enough". He's in the Council to fight corruption. How? There is also the founder of the association, not a party called Miroslava Milenic, a forensic scientist. Imagine if she entered the prosecution group, to stop the corruption against that group that reacted like this. One more thing, Madam Justice Minister, they have at the Anti-Corruption Agency of their people. There's a lady here who swears the ugliest to me has a mother who works to assess political corruption. I ask you, what kind of agency buys a building without a tender in which the mothers of the MPs work and evaluates their reports? So how could my mother possibly evaluate my report, my group president's report, my friends, etc? I must warn you that many of the data on all of you goes through the hands of people at the Anti-Corruption Agency and merges...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6188	Ambassador, please let's get back to the subject and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6189	The topic is the fight against corruption, the authorities dealing with the fight against corruption. I say it will be difficult, given that the Anti-Corruption Agency is operated by people who are members of the association that are represented here as a party. Then how will they fight when Miroslava Milenovic is the founder of the group? How will she participate in the prosecution group, if she is the founder of it and was with him at the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that is, the economy and finance? How are they going to assess this corruption? Madam Minister, you must take care of that. I have information about these people. So one of these people is a mother to one MP, another person delivers data, and in the money laundering department they have a person who delivers all that data to them. Don't let the law be inapplicable to us, that's why. It must also be kept in mind that they are not related to each other who are fighting corruption and those who are corrupt. That's why I was saying that they've skillfully left holes in the law that they intend to continue to go through. I was already talking about bankruptcy. Taking away property, part of that property goes to health care. Don't be a subject now. Part of the income from the property goes to health care and social services. It was about text messages yesterday. I have to tell you the following, and this will be further improved thanks to this law, that in ten months this year, 544 people were sent abroad, 499 children, and in 2012, when the party of the former regime, who objected to text messages, was totalled 49.10 times lower, with 13 billion higher budgets in the RFO. London, Main, Cologne, where children can be referred. The number of indications to be sent abroad has been expanded. The ministry has its own fund and has sent 20 additional children. It was operated on 11 of the foreign experts who could do it right away. So we had 480, and they were 49. Then they tell us how to treat kids with text messages today, and those text messages we're witnessing, there can be abuse. Imagine they didn't fire 400,000 people. Should health care be touched with new money now? If they hadn't fired 400,000 people, imagine 400,000 contributions to the PIO, to the Health Fund. If they hadn't sent people home without a job, would it be more likely for those kids to be treated better? It would be a new 25% more money in both pension and health and social funds. I am pleased that this law will award part of the seized property financially to the needs of health care and social welfare. As far as genocide is concerned, I regret every sacrifice. In the last war, there were nine of my family. In Sarajevo, everyone executed apartments, some and heads of these multiethnic ones. War is an ugly thing. When some democracy imported not as a conflict of ideas, but as a conflict of nations in order to turn a powerful, very powerful state into a series of protectorates, then you have one nation that was an armature of the former state and was declared the main culprit of the former state's disintegration precisely because they were an armature and were the last den of the state's defense. That state has turned me into six or seven protectorates, we don't give up a bit. Just because we're not giving up, we need to be careful with these genocide provisions. I have to say, you can appreciate it any way you want, but in mourning for every victim, only one who's lost relatives, uncles, uncles, brothers from uncles can know what pain it is. I regret every victim in Srebrenica, but also the one around Srebrenica. Not wanting that when I can't keep up with dead ancestors, not wanting to argue with living descendants, I have to say that my crimes in and around Srebrenica are equal. What happened in Srebrenica in a few days, happened in the vicinity of Srebrenica for three or four years. I'm not saying there weren't any vengeful murders, but I have to say, I don't admit to having a Hague-based genocide assessment in Srebrenica. I'm not a lawyer, but I've talked to a lot of lawyers, but I have to respect Zurop. I think he's qualified. He says he suspects it was genocide. I must respect Seid Hussein, Emir Kusturic. If they doubt it, I doubt it too. I also proposed a resolution on the crimes in and around Srebrenica because I believe that the rights of victims must be equal and that criminals must be sanctioned equally and that no other type of crime can be propagated, nor reduced. I'd like us in the region to do something like that and make peace with each other, so these outsiders don't use us against each other again, and they'll use us just by declaring something genocide, something won't, so these guys are gonna be mad at this, they're gonna be mad at each other, so they're gonna keep pulling each other around...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6190	Thank you, MP, you've got ten seconds left to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6191	If I can finish, then we must be extremely careful here. I expect my colleague Martinovic to explain it to me, because what they say is genocide I think is a political qualification. That's how I can't agree to that kind of thing. In the end, let me get this straight. The greatest injustice is when someone, Bogisic said, “when one of his evil works still has that benefit. ” The party of the former regime has benefited from everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6192	Thank you, MP. I've extended my time for that incident. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Let me just say something. I have to do something. What happened today must not remain unpunished and must not remain a role model for others who intend to behave like this. At the exact moment this incident occurred, we were transferred by the MPs of the DJB group. This is what the citizens saw and heard what who and who they told and did. Representatives Tatjan Macura spit on MP Marijan Risticevic. The messenger Christmas Nenad cursed the mother to Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. You were no messengers of Jerkov, not even close. I'm sorry the spit on our place says it's not a physical threat, otherwise I'd say the distance from the session immediately. Not because Marijan Risticevic is a member of the ruling majority, but because he is an MP in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. No one here has the right to spit on anyone and has the right to swear on his mother. In accordance with Rules of Procedure and Rule 109, I'm sorry I can't say a measure of distance at this point, because they're going to say that spit is not a physical attack, I think it is, but an attack on one man's dignity. I give another warning to the MPs Tatjana Macuri, who I have been informed that she has received one warning today from Vice President Arsic because she interrupted the speaker in the presentation. It doesn't bother me when someone interrupts, but it interferes with the speaker by coming out and insulting him and doing what she did. And, of course, to Nenad Christmas for cursing his mother to Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Did you see or did Martinovic tell you?) ) No, I invited Martinovic to ask if he would react publicly to this? I have the right to do that. Am I supposed to ask your permission? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: He told you.) I think at some point even if in opposition... (Marko Djurisic, from place: Read Article 109 to end. I've read everything. Well... (Marko Djurisic, from place: Read Article 109 to end and apply. Don't disturb me in my work. I will not join you in your tolerance for violence in this House that lasts for a few days. I won't. You're not looking for a conversation with me on that. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You are disrupting the work. So, I give them warning measures. Dot. I made a decision. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Shame. If you have a sensitivity to swearing, so you're more than me, I accept. I don't. That's not how they taught me at home. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Shame. I ask the MP to give me the pictures you showed while you were speaking. So it's because of me because when you go in there and you talk to the media, I'm always on target. Please give it to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6193	It's not a replica because I find it completely pointless to answer these things. It is a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure and primarily concerns you, Mrs Gojkovic, Article 106, 107 and 109, for the simple reason that you did not allow Parliament to function as prescribed by this Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, by consulting on a constant basis and at this point with Mr Martinovic, you question everything you said for the DJB parliamentary group. I don't think you should be politicizing someone's insolence when it comes from the ruling majority, and I think it's very embarrassing when you talk about the spit that was spoken to you or conveyed by the head of the largest parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, and that when someone spits on Serbian citizens' common sense and does it for 30 minutes, then you don't react and think it's in line with the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think you're running this session professionally today, and I believe that, not only did you violate the Rules of Procedure, but that you put your dignity at risk by allowing one of the MPs, Mr. Marijan Rističević, from the Assembly, to make a reality show, not what the Assembly should be or become, since it obviously isn't. When we talk about the most important topic today in our society, which is about the position of women in Serbia, you allow this subject to be politicised in one ugly way by accusing itself primarily of representatives of opposition parties and its leaders who are not in this room today and who do not belong to this agenda, and I think that this is not just an insolence. I think you know very well what you've been doing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6194	I know very well. Yeah, I'm behind my decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6195	I think you've made a mistake and threatened the dignity of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6196	Thank you for distracting me that I was wrong. There's an institution in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Your opinion is quite clear. I stand by this decision. By name, last name, function, my integrity with life, I stand behind this decision. (Balsha Gods, from the place of politics.) ) Yes, I am politicizing because I am a politician, because parliament is not a folklore society, nor a voluntary singing society, but this is a set of 250 politicians, MPs, representatives of citizens. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You do not know your role. You know my role? Your role is to defend the indefensible and to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure when it is not his place, and I will hold a press conference, show the photographs that have brought the unrest among the DJB MPs, so much pain that they have had to spit on the MPs and curse his mother. It's a day of tolerance, showing photos of politicians in the Republic of Serbia treating women, putting money in their brashalters while they're playing or I don't know what they're doing, eating naked bodies, eating women's food, not seeing what's a bigger illustration of violence against women than these photos, and I'm not afraid to show them as chairman, and I'm not afraid to show what I am and why I sanctioned. Who else of the authorities wants to talk? The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6197	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. A lot of things have been said, I don't want to repeat myself, but obviously when new crimes are introduced here, someone's in panic fear, like this cause of bankruptcy or the cause of false bankruptcy. Some of them seem to have a problem with it, so they do use it in the O.R. By the way, for the sake of the public, since I see that social networks have written everything, I had to take a look, yes, it is true, the lady in question came so subtlely and spat on her colleague Rističević. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: If you say so, then so. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6198	Ambassador, please address me and you MPs don't throw MPs away. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: He came to the Assembly at half a dozen. Never mind, let him come in at half past 12. It is his right not to come and to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6199	Just for the sake of truth, it's like this situation and the story of protecting women. Why? Because one, I can say, the Sorošev team absolutely monopolised that they were the only protectors of women in this society, and there were so much money being poured into these NGOs into allegedly some kind of protection projects of women, etc., and we never had more violence. We've never had more violence against women. Why? Because they never really wanted to do anything. This is the first government to bring concrete legal solutions to the protection of women and not only the protection of women, since domestic violence involves both the protection of the other sex and the male sex. But here we have one little and primitive thought that when a man suffers violence if he went to report it by accident, they would think that they would also be enlisting him in the worst possible way, and that he's a wuss, and that I don't know what kind of violence he is, so in principle, often men don't and don't do it, or they don't report that violence. As for violence against women, I say openly, whoever's ready to raise a hand on a woman is weak. It's a frustrated person, and we have to deal with people like that. After all, I may look at it a little differently, perhaps someone will laugh, but I look at it and a little with some of our Orthodox ethics, but as he himself is the Lord's command, a man and a woman must respect each other first and have no greater shame than to raise their hand to the weaker sex. There's no greater shame, and it's a good thing this is the first government to make such legal decisions that these thugs, savages, primitives, whatever you want, are finally sanctioned. Those who spent a lot of money in the NGO, in those Sorošev organisations, who spent so much money on campaigns, and the effect is that we never have more violence, let them still look up to some who are doing something concrete. Besides, what bothers me the most in this whole family violence story? We here have an irresistible need, in fact, one side has an irresistible need to show us our society as savage and that here men do nothing but look forward to coming home and beating their wives. Here, colleague Markovic was a witness, we were last year, which I listed yesterday, in Belgium. A woman who is chairman of the P Committee, it is their permanent committee for police control, etc. The parliamentary committee says that in the Kingdom of Belgium every other day a woman is killed by domestic violence, so no one has said that Belgium is a savage state, and so do we in France. Of course, they will now say – it is because of migrants, so no one is controlling them, etc. But still, it's some civilized society. That's where the EU's headquarters is, that's where Brussels is. Well, that's where it happens, but nobody talks about their country that way, and here someone needs to arm our country that we're all savages here, and we're just waiting to fight women. I don't want to let that happen. Thank you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for recognising this problem and for introducing provisions through concrete criminal legislation. I'd just like to ask to make sure that there is no abuse of these provisions. I can really agree with a colleague of Someone's from the SPS, say, in this criminal act of persecution. It can really be widely understood, so that there are no misuses. I believe that courts themselves will take great care of it when one of these crimes is sanctioned. What is very important is these crimes against the economy, or crimes directed at economic crime. We've had a socialist relapse so far. We mainly had crimes related to abuse of official office or unconsciously doing business in the economy or whatever it was called. And it could have been accepted in various ways. For years, no one intended to move those crimes. For the first time in particular, crimes are introduced that will really sanction someone who, for example, realizes that if they come into a public enterprise, they can be enriched by doing various machinations. With that in mind, I just have to say that we've had an incredible situation, which is that some former furniture is just some sublegal acts before, and you can correct me, Madam Ministerial or you, Mr. Ilic, as secretary. We had regulations that legalized crime in this society. So there's a regulation at some government phone session that legalizes some business that some tycoon intended with a public firm, and then the state gets robbed and you can't do anything about it because he robbed the state, because he comes to court and says, "I have a government regulation." I think it has to be stopped first. We had before had such legislation that we had passed laws that deliberately left holes, so it is said specifically for some particular economic activity – a government regulation will set a more concrete solution, etc., etc. Why is that a problem? Because then it's always this government regulation that's actually creating a space for crime. Someone was deliberately making laws with so many holes, and that's why we had an incredible robbery of state property and state at all. People are rightly angry. You can't condemn those people who did it because it's something that was legally legal and it's called colloquial and pointless – legalized robbery. But, unfortunately, it did exist. It's a good thing for the first time these crimes are being brought in, say, damage to the trustees. This is really good that it's being introduced, because we had some tycoons here that seemed to be the biggest investors in that period by selling theirs, the question is how, acquired property, and then not even tax returns, because they say they were big investments. For example, that tycoon has damaged so many trustees that it's something scary, because he never paid anyone anything or that supplier. That's how the farmers fell apart. This is a good thing that someone will finally protect all these people and that sometimes they can get paid. And, after all, it's also a felony. This whole bankruptcy thing, we've had X examples, as many as you want, of someone deliberately causing bankruptcy in the company, to ruin the company, and to sell it to someone who knows how. Of course, he's making money on it. It's terrible for me that people here have seen these bankruptcy managers as an organized criminal group. Look at all the companies you want, where people are crying and crying about what the bankruptcy managers did to them. This is really great that someone here finally incriminates this crime, which is that we have who causes bankruptcy, and that means that the purposeless spending of the company's assets, that it's destroying the company, or, even, it's causing a false bankruptcy, which is even worse, that it's going to be responsible. It is a very significant crime related to privatisation, i.e. abuse in privatisation. Maybe it's too late, I accept that it is, it should have been brought back in 2001. Unfortunately, and now, since there are companies that can still be privatized, although I must admit, today, when you look at these companies, the state might intend to privatize, but the question is which one of them wants out of the purchases, because they are so destroyed and ruined that it practically doesn't work anymore. But if there is any thought about being a strategic partner, either in Telecom or in another company, this crime should certainly be over his head. Because if someone tried to abuse that kind of privatisation, they could definitely go to jail and this is a very good solution. As for this taking bribes in carrying out economic activity, as well as giving bribes, I'm glad it's regulated very well, and I can only offer all the praise for these rigid penalties. Someone here complains, and I, by the way, the only thing I can resent about punishment, but it's not that much of a grudge, I believe that the courts will still be just, which is that it has a large range. I see a range of years to eight years, then there can be various manipulations. Or, for example, punishment up to two years, so you give him five or six months, and maybe he really deserves more, but it all depends on a good lawyer. I'm kind of in favor of making your range smaller, or, of course, getting a little bit of that punishment fixed, not having that kind of range, so that some people can get away with some minor punishment. In any case, these crimes related to economic crime are a great achievement and I must admit that this is the kind of thing I give all the credit for. As far as our criminal legislation is concerned, we need to understand that we are going to have a big problem in the future, because crimes are being committed in various modern ways, especially, in this cyber crime or through the means of modern communication. We're going to have to do a lot of work here, I think that Serbia is quite late and doesn't even have adequate protection. That high-tech crime department and our D.A.'s office, but, damn it, and the police, it's scarce with the people. I believe these personnel who work there are trained, but they have to go to permanent training and our criminal legislation will have to change in a lot of ways. As far as the law on organized crime is concerned, thank God someone's bringing something like this. Why? Because we had a demagogue story here. Yesterday, during a debate, I said that I was a great opponent of the introduction of these special departments both for the prosecution and for the judiciary when it was established, because I don't think I should have taken it from the ordinary judiciary or at all from the regular prosecution, but when that happened, when it already exists, and finally, when we defined the new CAP as having a prosecutor's investigation, then you have to give it to the prosecutor's office more jurisdiction. This so far as it's been, that's, right to tell you, it's been really bad. In many cases, organized crime prosecutors were cut off in the capacity of their work. They used to, of course, try to put certain objects in the drawer. It is scandalous that in 2012 we had in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime all three of the objects found, which were in some process of work, this remained a question of where everything was removed. I think it's something that's bad. This time that these strike groups are being introduced, I think it's a very good solution, as well as a contact person. People don't understand how important that is, because you sometimes get some data. For example, from some state institutions, say the Tax Administrations, there are uncommonly various obstructions, they won't deliver you, etc. Now you have a contact person who's and how you're in charge of it, and you have to deliver everything to her, because she has to bring it to you. So you can hardly do any more obstruction there, and that's all praise, of course. Anyway, this set of laws is very good. I can see that some people are upset, I can see that some of them are panicked, I can see that some of them have to even spit at the MPs here. So as soon as they're nervous, that's a sign that this is good. Of course, of course, we'll listen to the amendments, maybe fix something, but, all in all, this is really something that we're proposing right now, which is for every possible commendation, and of course we're going to support these legal solutions as SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6200	We're moving on to the list. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6201	Thank you, President. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, although today we are discussing a set of laws that promote, and especially this Law on the prevention of domestic violence, and although we are declaring a zero degree of tolerance to violence, I fear that today, in the near past, we have had one demonstration of verbal violence in the highest legislative home, which reflects one worrying degree of violence in all the pores, so to speak, of society. The fact is that violence against women, then organized crime, terrorism, and corruption, are the greatest social evils that destroy not only our country, but our society. So we need to have a serious debate and a public campaign against, which will be directed against various manifestations of violence in our society. When I say - show practice, here is a group of MPs, I would say from different political parties, participate in an incident of verbal misunderstanding, a verbal dispute that culminated, while most of them were watching. So, I really don't know what we all need to feel about these manifestations of domestic violence or today in the Verbal Violence Assembly, because of these manifestations of what we really need to feel - a mockery or a painful shame? I am an MP who advocates European integration. In various discussions from the region, with politicians from Europe, they will listen to when Serbs, when it will be, when the Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Albanians will be ready to join the EU. Usually everyone gave an answer – when they stopped fighting and killing each other. Today, an MP even spoke of something that is truly great evil, which is a mass crime and genocide. So today I say that we Serbian citizens will be ready for the EU when this domestic violence ceases, when husbands stop killing their wives, partners kill their wives. Unfortunately, this violence is not only directed towards women, it is directed towards older family members, although this law does not cover minor violence against older members. I really have to say that the situation in the state is really alarming. No one's safe anymore. That's why it is commendable for the state's actions to face this big and alarming problem. If we destroy the family, we destroy the state. Also, this second set of laws aimed at the fight against organised crime, corruption and terrorism is indeed beyond the need because whoever steals the country, so to speak, speaking of measures against corruption, he steals both blood, sweat and tears from this people. We're all citizens, we're all taxpayers with various layoffs, social and health benefits, in pension funds, in taxes, we've invested in keeping it real together. Since my time is limited, I need to speed up a little bit. What this bill lacks, which was, I see, and the observation of some organisations involved, is that there are no measures of socio-psychological treatment for the perpetrators of domestic violence. I really think it's necessary to include them in some kind of psycho-social support so that they can change their patterns of behavior. In some future changes and proposals to amend this law which I assume we will all adopt...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6202	Excuse me, MPs. MP, sit down. I know what they're doing. Sit down. Let them provoke. I'm asking Tatjana Macura not to throw it away. Diana, come on in. I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6203	Thank you. I'm moving on. That is why I would like to advocate that this psycho-social treatment, if not at this point, of the perpetrator of violence and those who will be introduced into this record that will be kept both at the lower and central level of registered offenders, that they are indeed included in psycho-social treatment. I agree with some MPs who have stressed here that poverty and a difficult economic and social situation are also a trigger for misunderstandings, for disputes, for verbal violence, for physical violence, but there is really no excuse to tolerate anyone, whoever commits, whether poor or rich, violence in the family, any social layer that belongs, therefore, that politician, so to speak, or an ordinary citizen or a respected citizen, indeed that tolerance, if we already adopt that standard of zero tolerance, should be for everyone and everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6204	Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6205	The Honorable Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of article 107, insulting Parliament's dignity. I'd really like to ask you, it's a parliamentary group that obviously intends to provoke the incident. They're deliberately entering this section of the SNS parliamentary group, so I don't mind if they come in. But they're coming in, deliberately earning us and insulting us here, in order to, of course, have a physical reckoning or an incident. I'm asking you to warn them not to do it anymore. We are all men of flesh and blood, and we do not want to endure the insults and circus behavior of an MP group whose one representative spit on a fellow MP. I would ask you to really respond in the future, for it can really come to anything and anything, or anything you want. Indeed, out of some decency, I ask you to warn them that these things are no longer working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6206	I warned them. I'm glad you're aware that obviously someone wants to cause an incident here. I've invited all of you to stay calm and stay out of it. That's obvious. So whoever doesn't want an incident, doesn't approach, doesn't cause it, doesn't turn around. They heard you were being dumped here. They didn't pass, they threw. That's what you hear. We're going on the air all the time, so I don't have to talk. Obviously, if someone is going towards you all the time and they're going through it on purpose, it's not because they want to go round the assembly, it's that it's causing an incident and you can see it, my God, you can see it. Zoran Zivkovic is not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6207	I give up in the name of peace in the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6208	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6209	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, in these two days of debate, I think it is clear that the laws we are discussing in this united debate should not have been joined together. Today we have one part of the MPs in shirts who support one action initiated by the Ministry of Justice in terms of promoting the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, on the other hand we have another parliamentary group carrying badges that deny genocide in Srebrenica. Now I should be able to talk about two completely different topics in the context of the time that I have available to talk about, plus there are other topics that we don't have at least visual symbols here in the Assembly Hall, but we have endlessly re-exploited insults and accusations that someone is a corrupter, a criminal and the like, which is forbidden by our Rules of Procedure, but these are repeatedly repeated without the sanctions of the chairman. Then we have the incidents that we had today in the afternoon's debate and all of that, unfortunately, I'm afraid does not contribute to preventing domestic violence or any other violence in society. This parliament in this assembly, unfortunately, has become a place that strengthens violence. Every day, citizens who have the opportunity to watch this transmission sometimes, because it does not always go, although the president claims to go, it does not always go, can see not one democratic debate in which we will disagree on certain things, which is also normal, which is also natural and appropriate for one parliament, but for the insults of each other that we exchange. I don't think we as a parliament are the first to contribute to preventing violence. I'm going to talk a little bit about this law on preventing domestic violence. That's a good law. We can tell if it was necessary to bring him back sooner. It is not that there were no measures the state was trying to reduce this form of violence in the Republic of Serbia. There was also family law and criminal law and various other laws, but apparently, since we have an increase in domestic violence, or reported acts of domestic violence, and the state obviously did not have a good enough mechanism to fight, one such law was needed. We welcome that. What we think is bad is the fact that this law that we are about to pass, as the president announced, by November 25th, when the date of tolerance is that it will only begin on 1st of June 2017. That's far. I will remind you of the statistics for this year, and it is such that one victim is a week old with a deadly outcome in the Republic of Serbia this year. So, so far, it's over 40 lives lost. Do we have the right to this luxury these 25-26 weeks before this law is applied? If this law does not take place earlier, we have proposed at least three months earlier, of course it takes some time to introduce, it takes training, all of it stands, but I'm sure there are people in the police department and in the prosecution and judges who have met with these cases so far, so that they can start applying this law before, that maybe this law can save at least one human life? I believe it's worth the effort and the thought. We can't say – let's make everything ideal, so let's start with law enforcement. I think the situation is such that it requires us to leave as soon as possible. Also, what concerns us is the change of one crime so far, the violation of the protection measure, the measures of protection, which are now being transferred to violations by this law. This is explained at some speed, but we believe that a bad message is being sent and that it does not fit the meaning of a law that should show the state's determination to prevent any domestic violence. Violence in the family, of course, and victims of violence are not only women, and if they are only women most often, the victims are also other family members and children and are older and is of course one of the reasons for growing poverty in the Republic of Serbia, but only this law seems to me to be dealing only with the consequences. So how do we stop that violence that's already going on? What I expect from the government is how we do prevention? Who are these preventive measures that the state will have to reduce the tensions that exist in the family? What will the state do to economically strengthen women? If we talk about them as the most common victims, because women today are less paid than men in Serbia. Women today all seem to me 7% of the property in the Republic of Serbia is taken to women. Women are often forced to stay in families and for years to suffer this violence simply because they do not have economic freedom and independence. These things are important to us to do preventively, this law will be, I hope, in carrying out harshly against the violent, that there will be no understanding of judges, of minimum or below the penalties that are below the prescribed minimum, because these are serious things and the state of Serbia has to deal with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6210	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6211	Thank you, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this House of Commons today, there have been so many difficult words, and we have one united agenda, four legislative proposals that I would say are of great importance to our society. One of the laws is a law that needs to help and address the issue of domestic violence. But Serbia is not a society in which we had only domestic violence in the past. Violence was in all spheres of society. Against this violence, we as parliament as people's representatives must fight. We have to be an example to those citizens who have chosen us, we have to be an example of how the government behaves, how it is said, how it defends the interest of citizens, that the interest of citizens is not defended as I have repeatedly said in my performances, ugly words, swearing, spitting, physical calculations, provocations or various other good or poorly trained ways or performances. Violence in the family is a terrible phenomenon, and in this violence most often women suffer. Victims of violence are also children, rarely when men. Today's action that we attended at the beginning, before the beginning of this session where we said, turn off the violence, I would say the right thing. That's a good message for the whole Serbian society. It's a good message because those who came to the conference showed citizens what the idea of what we're doing today is what we're saying, what we want to do, what we want to do to make this society more prosperous, to make it more successful, to make it happier. And then, in the end, I am sure, after a few years and this parliament will reach that very level that there will be no more form of violence or any performance in it, but only the exchange of constructive ideas of the face-to-face of political opinions. When we talk about domestic violence, we must first treat the cause. Let's see why this violence to this extent has taken over our society that today we are in parliament passing such a law. I would say that this legal proposal is good, meaningful, comprehensive, that those measures that they are designed to do are the measures they need above all to deter those they have in themselves, to say, the potential to be perpetrators of any violence, whatever kind of violence is verbal, physical, economic, sexual. The point of this law is how he himself says in his title – preventing violence. So, not to fight violence, but to prevent violence from happening, because when violence happens often, then we can't, unfortunately, fix those consequences anymore. Once the victim was, I'd say, a triple victim. Through her lack of understanding or help from society and the environment in which she lives, the state has not reacted sharply enough and sanctioned such phenomena. And of course, the victim was injured by a bully. Today, as I said, this legislative proposal is a comprehensive way of putting pressure on violent people by dissuasing them by those measures prescribed by the law that they will be punished. We also send our activities as MPs a message to society that violence is not acceptable, that violence is not allowed and that we also act on competent institutions by passing such a law. I am therefore convinced that the legislative proposal that lies ahead when it comes into effect and that it will cause the same effects as the Proposer does. First of all, it is important for us to support this law together today from the Assembly and on the day of the vote. To try to be unanimous in this, because the issue of supporting victims of violence and preventing violence in one society is not the issue of a political party, it is a matter of health, an elemental order in a society. We will be as successful as we are able to fight violence and as much together as we are ready to show that any form of violence, any rudeness, any experience can be all together as the MPs, regardless of our ideological, political, personal differences, whatever, that we unite together, and together we will, if something is not ideally possible in the law, because there is no ideal law, or some believe that the one that applies is ideal. This will apply for sure, to make sure that, together on the day of the vote, we support such a legislative proposal and to show the citizens that, whether we belong to the parties of position or opposition, we are directed and defined to ensure that violence in the family, violence of any kind in the Republic of Serbia is absolutely eradicated. When it comes to other draft laws, I will first and foremost look back on the subject of corruption. Corruption is a disease that destroys society. It destroys everything around it. Because corruption has reached such a level in Serbia, because it has been watered, nursed, decades or two in the Republic of Serbia, jobs have become less and less, the factory has been growing. The companies privatized and privatized, led to hundreds of thousands of people being unhappy, left on the street, left without their perspective, without a future. Because corruption was so high in Serbia, they didn't want investors to come. Serbian citizens who wanted to start their private business were afraid to go into any private business, to have any private initiative, because they had a legitimate fear that someone from the municipal, local, republican authorities would ask them for bribes for a permit, for some paper. Those who went to the doctor, and it was brought to that level that it became a minor custom, that when they say - your wife is giving birth, you have to give 500 euros, because that's the custom. So far, the situation in this society has gone from 50, 500 to hundreds of thousands of euros, millions. Some have built huge treasures on it. Today, when we talk about corruption, about the bill's proposal, I believe that those who are used to living off it and in such a way will give up themselves, or the state will sanction them, as is already happening, as some have been sanctioned. I'm sure that's the way we'll all go together. Our policies can be different, and that's good, to exchange, to face our political views and ideas. It is also good for citizens to see what representatives are like in the Serbian Parliament. But around basic, civilized things, such as violence, such as corruption, such as any form of crime, whether in the economy, in anything, we have to agree, if we want this society to be cured of those diseases that someone has infected him so deeply before and contaminated him. I don't have any dilemma, I'll support any draft laws that are on the agenda. Full support to Mrs. Kuburovic, justice minister, full support to her team. And I call on other MPs, fellow Members of all parliamentary groups to remember that we were elected by citizens, that not only were we elected by members of our parties, that even those who did not vote for us were Serbian citizens, and that they deserve to live in a better society, happier, more successful, richer, more jobs, no corruption, no violence, and that they vote together with us for such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6212	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. I ask Gordana Komic if the speech will last longer than 18 minutes. (Gordana Comić, from the place: No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6213	Thank you. I'll try to comment on two bill proposals and pay attention to the remarks I have. The first of them are members of the law to prevent domestic violence, with my comment - why are we passing this law? Not because there is a theme of playing and mocking the members of that law here in the Assembly, not because we are pleased with the verbal violence that we share with each other and not because we are standing up, sitting down, and we clearly show the difference between what we think and what we are trying to hide, and the obvious pattern of behavior of a family bully. I listen to many in the public scene, and many are suspicious that they are domestic abusers, because they know what the pattern of behavior of a family bully, who uses the dictionary, what attitude he has, how he treats the one he talks to. Not because of this law, but because of the men and women in the families who listen to us, who, together, need us to send a message that no one should live in violence and that anyone who suffers violence must have our support and protection and to help them understand that they are a victim of violence, whether they are a man, a woman, a brother, an uncle, a father, a mother, anyone who lives in a family, who is taught to suffer, to be demeaned, threatened, to be deprived of his care, to be neglected, to be slapped occasionally, to be warned by anyone, I have given birth to you, I will also kill you, to threaten him, to everything that can happen to him if he is not obeyed, obeyed, and to any one who is violent in the house, whoever he is, thinks he should be. This law exists so that we can talk about sentences that are exchanged in such houses, in such unfortunate families. All the unhappy families look like each other, like all the happy families that look like each other. And there aren't enough T-shirts to wear and to hide a character that basically shows approval or a sense of joy over the obvious production of violence in this room. I'm not sure the law is good enough. I have signed the amendments and this is one of those laws that puts me in an ethical dilemma as a MP whether to vote for if I know that by refusing some amendments he will be inadmissible, not sufficiently clear and allow violence to be more and not less. And I will solve my ethical dilemma on my own. I don't need any help. I know the value system. No one can live in violence. And anyone who has someone in front of him who tries to address him with violence should know every verbal bully is a scared little poor bully, insecure of himself. To his fear, turn to him. Every one of us who gets up and insults, uses a dictionary of indignity, demeaning, an ugly dictionary, is a poor little bully, afraid of finding out how much he has no idea, about how he's denying himself the will for violence in his own life. The victim is the first victim and she suffers the most and is in fear for her life. There's no greater quality of life for bullys, and neither for many of us who rejoice here, cheer, which violence entertains, which is the last point you can come to as a human being, that you're sneezing when you see verbal blows exchanged. So, I will inform the Minister during the amendment of my final decision on whether or not to vote, but this is my key point. It is our job for all people in Serbia to know what it says in this law, to whom it can address. It is our job to say - we are passing the law so that people who do not know that they are victims of violence or that thugs who think that shamars are natural communication between family members, that this is forbidden, unacceptable, punishable by law. Unfortunately, we didn't give them that information. We've been dealing with our own violence, which is proof that T-shirts aren't helping. Only one sentence on amendments and introduction of Item 5 in Article 387. I have objections to other changes, but I believe that the government's proposal and the idea to say by law is clear that it is punishable to publicly approve and praise or deny crimes against humanity and genocide is one of the things that helps us believe that the government really has a valuable system when something that is a civilizational achievement. I hope that we will take this very seriously and that we will no longer listen to violent recitations about it -- it was a crime against humanity in Srebrenica, but not many have been killed. How long it takes to kill them, to face our own ethical system and the reality that is ours, regardless of what Srebrenica is a BiH city. A common tragedy is both this attitude and a member. I hope that at least in the disputes it will be quite clear and obvious how much we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6214	Thank you. Marco Blagojevic, did you say you needed five minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6215	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a respected minister, state secretary, respected co-workers of the minister, with regard to the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption, we have two organically related laws before us - amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which concerns corruption, and the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's jurisdiction in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption. What are the fundamentally corrupt acts, which are the most prominent and connected crimes here? These are acts of two chapters - crimes against the economy and crimes against official duty. We have reformed the chapters mentioned in these amendments by modernizing them and supplementing them. Where exactly was the whole problem? These chapters of the Criminal Code have remained in the past order, in socialism, and social opportunities, as everyone knows, are now significantly different from that time. The transition, the changed economic reality, the different way of doing business, the forms of property dramatically changed the forms of corruption. Although they're so-called. The democratic changes took place in 2000, few who had the thought of modernising and changing the Criminal Code until 2012 when the reforms of the Criminal Code that it is modernising and are beginning to follow the changes in society. What problems have arisen by not keeping an account on the Criminal Code? The attorney general and the police have been deprived of the basic means of work and have been prevented from conducting their investigation effectively. On the other hand, a vast space for abuses has been left, the state is unselective, using a special department of senior court, known as a special court, to bring our society into a state of emergency. We all know a number of spectacular actions of arrests, dozens of various mafias, from the mafia's cupus, the mob's driver, sports, professor's, oil, pharmaceuticals, bankruptcy and so on, acting on the conscience of citizens and on the awareness of such unnecessary labelling of entire professions and calls, the demeaning of civil servants, demeaning the entire society and the system, so that later we would be witnesses that the indictments mostly fell one after another or there was no indictment. Let the trials last for more than 10 years, even if the entire era, for a decade, uses the position of certain circles for the threat, the calculation, the racket, the wealth or the kind of preventive compromise, the threat and debauchery of certain people and the competition in the media. Also, there was an impression in the public that the prosecution did not decide what they would like to do, but was decided on in other places and circles. With these changes, we return the right weapon to the public prosecutor and the police. How do we treat the Criminal Code? See how the head of the crimes against the economy is now arranged. Seven new crimes, all new, clear, with high respect for the basic principle of criminal law lex sert, which means determination. All these crimes were committed by reputation to the most developed countries most effectively fighting these phenomena. In particular, this modernization is based on the German doctrine of criminal law, according to the German criminal law. However, the best criminal law, including the one before us, made by the highest standards, can be difficult to apply if the state authorities that are to use it are not properly organised and professionally sophisticated, specialized. For the first time, the Government has provided us with such a proposal where the Criminal Code follows a special organisational law that should enable the effective application of the Criminal Code. What can I tell you? This new law introduces complete specialization for all the corrupt crimes I've been talking about. The prosecution of organised crime continues to work and continues to prosecute organised crime and high corruption. All other corruption will now be prosecuted in four regional centres: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and the King. So far, we've had a situation where prosecutors and police in smaller places have to deal with complicated cases with insufficient capacity and rarely under great pressure. In addition to the other social circumstances that I mentioned, the disorganised and disorganised judiciary allowed various circles and lobbies to rob, go unpunished, become owners of factories and enormous assets overnight, and that, as a rule, these successful businessmen and powerful officials of yesterday's civil servants or reliable people of the system, favorites, trustees of political parties who were at that moment accidentally in power. The weapons of the fight against organised crime and corruption, which we are handing over today's law to those who will apply it, does not only mean that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the four regional centres will be more efficient and modern to fight organised crime and corruption, but rather mark the start of a new methodology. This means introducing liaison officers between the prosecution, police, and other state bodies, providing maximum speedy data exchange and coordination of all relevant institutions of the system. A methodology is being introduced to make multi-sectoral units under the authority of the public prosecutor. This way of working drastically reduces the possibility of impacting the investigation and the very corruption of the state authorities involved. This method is called: impact groups and it is known in the world. It is thought of the methods introduced by the U.S. in 2001 after the attack on "the twin towers" and the aim is to make maximum, fast and quality co-ordination, data collection and coordination of all relevant entities, thus raising strong accusations with a low probability of failure. We are introducing a powerful system of work that will introduce a new way of thinking and behavior with our investigative organs. That is why it is freely said that this reform, in terms of fighting corruption, has not yet been seen by Serbia and was needed. It was created in 2012 and is modernized today, and I hope that it will continue to modernise. What is most important in the internal plan, an effective fight against crime and corruption, will mean not only more money and material resources that will be allocated to culture, science, health, education, sport, will not only mean safer and fairer Serbia. What is most important is that success in the fight against crime and corruption for citizens will mean a return to respect and trust in state authorities, will restore dignity and respect for the civil servants themselves, thanks to the numerous measures and policies the government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting. So in the voting day, I'm going to vote for these laws and I hope you will continue to modernize them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6216	Ambassador, you said five minutes, and you're already talking about eight and something. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6217	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6218	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm now setting a 60-minute break and we're going to start... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: And after me. No, no, no, We continue to work in three minutes to three, to be exact. [[after breaks]] The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're discussing four proposals from a criminal-law area and it's not bad, but it's bad that four of these important laws are being discussed within one item of the agenda, where we certainly won't be able to say about each individual law what we think we need. We have submitted certain amendments to the SRS, so I guess we'll be able to discuss these proposals a little bit more in detail in the debate. The essential objection of the SRS has been the one we've been repeating for years. It is not good that in an indefinite number of laws we have criminal acts instead of codifying the Criminal Code and that in one place, in one code we have all the crimes that are otherwise contained in the Criminal Code, and also in other laws, and in those that we are discussing today. In this way, apart from creating legal uncertainty among citizens, believe me, I suppose you're communicating with judges, judges are creeped by every law like this, where a law is passed, where it's contained again, I'm talking about the judges of the guilty, who really have serious problems because of this kind of procedure, and this is not your manner, or yours alone, but this is something that you obviously inherited. In order to discuss a criminal case, the judge has to consult at least 16-17 of any laws and then it may happen that some eventually skips, and only because you have a conflict in these laws with the Criminal Code, it's just a special problem. In fact, this is saying that you're not serious about solving these problems that are contained in these bill proposals, because if you did, then you would really hire serious, good lawyers to do this serious job for a long time. I'm sure there are good lawyers in the Justice Department, at least I know there have been, but I also know, as we all in Serbia know, that we have many young lawyers who have completed regular colleges, state law schools and who work unfortunately, in cafes, markets, etc. Instead of hiring at least for a certain time to help do some serious things like this. Instead, we have a flood called the so-called flood. The lawyer and not only the lawyer, applies to other professions, but the fact is that what has been done in the last few years, and again I say not only within the framework of progressive but before, democratic authorities, we all know how much you want people who work, I don't know, in the Assembly, in some ministry, government, etc. who worked on some jobs, for example Courier, coffee cook, etc. which we very much respect as a profession and for some time, that someone gets a degree, I really don't dare say they're finishing law school, and today they show up with a degree. Tomorrow he's working on some serious job, scheduled for a graduate lawyer, because it counts for him, even the time he spent in the coffee kitchen, as a job internship in the Assembly, for example. So it's all very bad and it has something to do with this subject. Why is this criminal law still to be codified? Because for several years in Serbia, we have a very interesting situation to pass names laws. That's really bad. And then, on the personal tragedies of some families, some people, they collect petty political points, and someone stands for what's called the so-called. Mary's Law, Zoya's Law, Alex's Law, etc. I'm sorry I ever mentioned these three names, I don't want us to participate in these populist attempts to get to the point, because someone's had a tragedy. We must have laws that will provide for advances that all crimes in Serbia are possible, as we must have a law that will contain some crimes that have not yet been committed, but which are predictable in view of, perhaps technological developments, perhaps the state of society, to great poverty, great unemployment, great misery in society. All this certainly contributes to people reaching out to some negative things, some bad things, but I repeat, it must all be contained in one code, in the Code of Criminal Code codified. So, from case to case, to law, we're actually not gonna do anything and we didn't do anything. You've been talking all day here, almost all MPs have somehow put a bill on preventing domestic violence in the first place, do you think this law is going to change anything? He won't. It just won't, there's not a single provision that guarantees it. What's been going on so far and will that change? He won't. Every time this terrible family tragedy occurs, several days the newspaper is dealt with by the team, the media and the others and then three days later we read – said the neighbour, said the father, said the father, the sister, the brother, that this woman, that child, that grandmother, because unfortunately, all categories are in danger of this violence, they reported to the police. So the police come into a family, if the woman reported the husband who beat and bullied, and the cop comes and says, "Now you calm down, have coffee together, it's your family thing, and I'm going to do something more serious." And what happens? It was only then that bully who had already shown abnormal behavior that they would seek anger on that poor woman, who dared to report him. That's how it's gonna be. So, you have to systematically and essentially change things, you have to fix the state of affairs, you have to get an economic recovery, as much as it sounds to you as the minister of justice might not have anything to do with these problems, it does. It's got a lot of connections and what a lot of connections. I repeat, from the beginning, unfortunately time does not allow us to talk more seriously and more about this law, but we will try through the amendments, but I must say, to amend the Criminal Code, Article 387, where you have provided for prison sentences for someone who, for example, says there was no genocide in Srebrenica, as we Serbian radicals are proudly carrying it on the lapel, that you will punish such things. What you're doing is breaking the Constitution, this is unconstitutional. Unfortunately, the question is whether the Constitutional Court and when it will function at full capacity, because it will soon remain with only five judges, but believe me, if they think normally of the Constitutional Court and if they respect the Constitution, this provision must fall, because you cannot defend the people to tell what they think they need to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6221	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6222	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected minister with associates, respected Serbian citizens, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all draft laws. So, a set of laws that the Government has submitted to the National Assembly for a decision, on which we are having a debate, a bill on the prevention of domestic violence, a draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, a bill on the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. However, what seems most important to me when it comes to these four proposed legal acts, as well as most of my colleagues, and what I would particularly refer to in my discussion is the bill on preventing domestic violence. The JS position is to support the family as a pillar of society. Supporting a family without violence and that family should be the safest place for any society whose institutional pillar is this law. What is important is to point out the arguments that support the adoption of this law that, in a practical sense, it should bring positive results. Also, this law drags along other laws, and the most important is the law on free legal aid that the victim of violence should provide for protection, and we hope that the law will soon come into congregation procedure. The law on preventing domestic violence must be seen as a preventive law and that prevention is aimed at combating violence. This criminal act endangers the safety of another person, which entails a threat to life, body, and freedom from another person or close to him. I believe that for every type of violence, we must have zero tolerance, especially when it comes to domestic violence. When we talk about victims of violence, we often say that it is a woman, however, indirectly and other family members become victims of violence. The problem of domestic violence is the social situation that the state should deal with just passing laws like this. It is important to point out that family law gives basic concepts of violence in the family is a behavior that endangers one family member’s physical integrity, mental health, and tranquillity of another family member. Since the beginning of the year, 4.561 crimes have been recorded - domestic violence, which is very alarming, which is about 15.8% more than in the same period last year. It's one of the most widespread aspects of human rights violations. Violence is evil and disgrace to him who commits violence, but violence is not evil and disgrace to the victim who suffers it. As a society, we must make efforts to encourage victims to report violence. The problem of disorderly and unhappily reporting domestic violence to the competent authorities, despite the fact that a lot has been said and written on this subject in recent years, continues to be expressed. This kind of family loyalty is partly a reflection of the elemental fear of the victim himself for his safety, but the patriarchal understanding of the need to hide these family problems under the rug from the public. In the past few days, we have witnessed the monstrous crimes that the media has placed on us, and I believe that they must be severely punished. It is important that Serbia must be unique to counter domestic violence, and only by passing such a law on preventing domestic violence, we will make sure that we provide victims with full protection and support and eventually prevent greater consequences for the victim. The proposal manages to regulate, in one place and in a comprehensive manner, the co-operation of representatives of the competent authorities and other authorities, organisations, institutions, associations and individuals involved in the protection process, which facilitates and makes it relatively feasible in practice. He's trying to solve a major problem that exists in our society, and he's looking at the under-coordinated co-operation of the authorities in charge of preventing domestic violence and protecting and supporting the victim. The law norms multi-resor co-operation. Public prosecutors, police and social work centres are obliged to co-operate through a joint body -- a co-ordination and co-operation group. The law also meets the requirement that sanctions for infringements of emergency measures be effective. It is predicted that a bully who violates an emergency step away from his apartment and prohibits the victim of violence for 48 hours, the criminal judge may impose a legal sentence of 60 days. In this way, police, criminal courts and other authorities will be able to respond effectively and in due time to prevent any tragedy. Those who threaten physical, psychic or any other violence only understand the most direct repression. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia is that the law norms the system of combating domestic violence, stems from the international agreements that our country has confirmed with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, so-called The Istanbul Convention. The government has proposed to the National Assembly that this law be passed as a matter of urgency, and we agree. In the end, I will say once again that the JS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support all draft laws that are on the agenda for decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6223	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6224	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on preventing domestic violence is a clear indication of the country's will and willingness to violence any kind of road trip. Such a bill sends a clear message of zero tolerance to violence, as is the Istanbul Convention. This bill introduces a number of amendments that have been made to identify and support and help victims of violence. There are no rules when it comes to victims of violence, or when it comes to education, or when it comes to property, or age. So we can all meet in this situation, and that is why it is very important to send a clear message that violence is socially unacceptable and that it is legally sanctioned. The goal will be achieved through the support and empowerment of women to talk about violence, but with this measure prescribed by law, which is the distance of the bully from the circle of the family, thus the woman will have the opportunity to objectively look at the whole situation and, with the legal assistance she will be given, to make a decision on further actions and without threats and interference from the violent people. So far, shortcomings have been observed in terms of the longevity of the process being conducted, as well as the situation where the prosecutor gives up prosecution in situations where the victim withdraws. If we add to this the difficulties in proving and the unpreparedness of witnesses to cooperate, it is clear why this area is so sensitive. That is why this measure of distance from a bully is extremely important. The number of misdemeanors alone is insignificant, and there is a disproportionate between the number of reported cases of violence and judicial decisions themselves. In view of all these suggestions that came from both the competent professional authorities and the NGOs, this legislation has been established, which has been adopted in order to support the victims maximum. This law will also address all the issues of this highly sensitive topic and will clearly define the powers and competences of all state authorities, the urgency of action and the timing of action. For the first time in this law, we have that violence can be done by inaction. leaving a minor face and not giving up support. So it's important to extend that circle of faces to which protection can be provided. Also, the law provides for co-ordinated action between police, courts, prosecutors, social work centres, and this is very important, because this was done by law rather than protocol. A specialized decision is also foreseen for each of these links in the chain, which is extremely significant. What I would also point out is the intended punishment for not reporting violence and non-compliance with the urgent procedure and any knowledge and suspicion that violence exists and that there is a danger of violence at all means the obligation to report, and therefore we need to raise awareness about this subject so that through the media we can potentiate and encourage people to talk about violence. The law also provides for the organisation of a council to prevent domestic violence organised by the government of the Republic of Serbia and will be in charge of co-ordination and to monitor the application of this law. We want to send a message of zero tolerance to violence precisely to the bully, that such behaviour will be sanctioned and that it is indeed unacceptable and that this measure of distance of the bully speaks in favor of this fact. The victim will also be given free legal aid and other support measures in terms of self-determination. I am sure that with this law and the proper protocols that are adopted with the accessibility of the databases, raising awareness, with the support of the media, it will be possible to deal with this problem together and get in the way of it. Indeed, as a woman and as a member of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, I will be pleased to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6225	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6226	Thank you, President. For a very long time, it has been our opinion, I fear generally accepted, that women themselves are guilty of the violence they are experiencing, or that they themselves are guilty of causing it or that they are guilty of suffering it. A year ago in this congregation, we had a colleague who talked about sexual and psychological manipulations that led women to beat them up there or I don't know what else to do with them. I don't know which one of us didn't attend a conversation where a guy's sentences were spoken. Well, she's guilty, why she's suffering it, what she's been keeping quiet, what she's letting him go, what she doesn't leave him, etc. In fact, women are not to blame for the violence. They suffer violence because the system is absolutely working against them. They are being used by the media, who report potential murders in partner relations, if it's about celebrities, which is better for the media, as if they were modern Roma and Juliet. It was those who knew, and in more than half of the cases where a woman was killed in partner violence later it turned out that the whole family, the whole environment, the whole neighborhood, all friends, that everyone knew that she was suffering violence. It's those who make it impossible for women to get jobs, those who fire women, it's the system that makes it impossible for them to get to work, banks that don't give them credit because they don't have property. It is against those who condemn women when they suffer violence and remain in those relationships, and when they come out of a relationship where they suffer violence, ask yourselves, "How many times have you heard a sentence?" And what has it been waiting for, and what has it been silent about? So it doesn't work when he doesn't leave it, and it doesn't work when he leaves it. It is also guilty of police, which the Citizens' Protector said in his report that in most cases police officers give assessments of reported incidents and classify them, not as violence, but as family disagreements, verbal conflict, broken family relations, poor marital relations, and therefore the prosecution is wrong to act accordingly. They're guilty of courts that take for a man's extenuating circumstances if he's drunk, if he's a father of children, and who finds all the excuses to find extenuating circumstances for men who beat women. This is why it is very important to make it impossible for the law that we make it impossible for the system to be an obstacle to these women and instead to make them support these women, to allow them to get out of a relationship that suffers violence and to create conditions for those who commit violence against women to be punished. We've submitted a few amendments. One of them is the amendment that the Autonomous Women's Center insisted on. We believe that they are right when they say that it is extremely dangerous that you delete from the Criminal Code a position that reads – who violates the protection measures against domestic violence, which the court has imposed on him under the law, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and by fine. You, therefore, are erasing it, and you say that it is because you are introducing a position that is said to be punishable by a prison of up to 60 days will be punished for a violation of a person who violates an emergency measure which has been imposed on him or has been extended or a measure of protection against domestic violence. You're sending the bullyes into the family a message that they'll be less punished and less punished than they've ever been before. It will be an amendment on which we will insist, because we do not want to pass the law and to support the adoption of a law that will make the position of women who suffer violence more difficult and will reduce the penalties for those who violate the prohibition measures. We heard from SPS colleagues that they proposed an amendment that defines mental violence, because physical violence is not the only violence women suffer. It's also one of the things we need to talk about. So, I think we'll have a lot to talk about in the detail debate. I'd like you to get involved in this debate and when we talk in particular. This really is a law that we have to send a message to women that they are not alone and that we will finally say that this society has the intention of calculating itself with violent people, not women who suffer violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6227	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6228	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the honourable minister of co-operation, fellow MPs and MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today a set of judicial laws. These laws, now in the National Assembly of Governments, unequivocally send a message that this state, namely this government, has clear mechanisms to prevent domestic violence, clear mechanisms of state bodies that will work to combat crime, corruption and terrorism, as well as clear mechanisms and clearly envisaged criminal acts for the part relating to economic crimes. I will focus on the Law on preventing domestic violence, because I think it is very important, primarily from the aspect of the country's adequate and timely response to the protection of the victims of domestic violence. Also, this law is significant and because it first regulates, in a clear and unequivocal manner, the conduct of competent state authorities and institutions, so that it will not be possible to transfer a ball from the courtyard of a state body to the courtyard of another state body and thus to keep the victim of domestic violence unprotected. Once again, I must point out, the previous regime, whose backbone was DS, had passed the Family Law in 2005, which was a step forward in the repression of domestic violence, but what I must also point out is that by 2012, 44 sublaws under the Family Law were not passed, and we all know that not passing sublegal acts prevents the implementation and implementation of the Family Law. The law on the prevention of domestic violence is important because it is a link between the Family Law, between the Law on Criminal Procedure, between the Law on the Prosecution, between the Law on Criminal Procedure. This law actually prevents itself from responding even when there is an unequivocal danger of violence, and there is no violence. These are these urgent measures of protection, it's an emergency police act, that through an order it can bring an emergency protection measure that involves keeping a bully for 48 hours, and later, through court proceedings and extensions and measures for up to 30 days. It also foresees the possibility that even if a bully does not adhere to emergency measures of protection, and they may be apart from the distance from the apartment and preventing communication and approaching the victim, that he may criminally be punished with a 60-day prison sentence. This is an effective way, because the violation law allows the execution of the prison immediately, the appeal of the solution does not delay its execution. What I must also point out is that this law clearly determines that first link, the first institution to be responsible for cases of reported violence, is the MUP, or the police officer responsible. He does a risk assessment and based on a risk assessment determines whether there is a direct danger of domestic violence. This law sets out exactly what elements the competent police officer must take into account in the risk assessment, and, of course, before making up the risk assessment, he may also request the opinion of the competent social work centre. I must also point out that this law for the first time regulates the competences of the coordination and co-operation group. It is clearly prescribed that not only the formation of a coordination and co-operation group, but also its competences that they must meet on a 15-day basis, that they must protect, that they must propose a protection measure against domestic violence and, of course, what is very important, to keep a record of their work. So, of course, this law will not and cannot remain a dead letter on paper, but it represents a step forward in protecting victims of domestic violence. I must say that the main state authorities and institutions provided for by this law are the police officer, the deputy public prosecutor, who normally presides over the coordination and co-operation group, and the Social Labour Centre. Also, I must point out that other institutions involved in protecting against domestic violence, as well as the non-governmental sector can be members of the coordination group. What I also want to point out is that in the risk assessment, the active participation and the victim of domestic violence. So it's very important that she conducts a self-evaluation of the immediate danger of violence. What I would also like to point out is an individual plan to protect and support the victim. Through the individual plan of protection and support of the victim, in fact legal support will intertwine, psychosocial support will be intertwined, urgent response immediately to the safety and safety of the victim, but also to her empowerment, to her rise in confidence, to her taking life into her own hands. This is also important in the individual plan of protection, but it is also very important that other family members are treated with an individual protection plan. Why do I say this is important? Because families are mostly victims of domestic violence and underage children. Giving adequate support to both victims and children and how important it is for children through imitation, by identifying the adopted model of family education from their family tomorrow will also transfer them to preschool institutions both in school and on the street. All the seriousness of this law, of course, except for compliance with the Istanbul Convention, and all the responsibility for taking such important measures was seen by the government, right through the formation of a Council for the Monitoring of Family Violence. It is a body that will monitor the application of this law and, of course, work on the coordination of all competent state authorities. The Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of laws that deny anti-legislative treatment of anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6229	Thank you. The word is Sreto Peric, and let MP Zarko Korac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, yesterday and today in this house, we are discussing four very important life topics. One somehow managed to fight, which is domestic violence. Is that something that has the most problems? Ms. Minister, speaking of these four legislative proposals, devoted the most time to this particular topic and spoke 27 minutes, and 27 minutes was spent on the other three topics. The citizens of Serbia will be able to assess whether it is really a family threat, whether we have fallen on such low branches or whether it is populism or whether it is a desire for this topic to be handled in a good way, the time ahead will show it. As a member of the SRS, I want to believe that there are still healthy families in Serbia that will certainly help our society now in big trouble to get out of it. But we must not forget at any time that domestic violence also has a negative impact on Serbia's policy and on official politics in Serbia. The question arises, and here it is said that women are the most endangered. It may be quite accurate, but it is certain that the elderly are threatened and the children are at risk, but no one here has talked about the causes that led to it. It's not enough to propose one law. Madam Minister, you must know that after the adoption of this law, no one will be pleased. Perhaps a certain number of MPs who will meet a certain standard will be able to say, "We have adopted so many laws in this congregation." You're not satisfied with the civil sector. You could probably hear their comments and reaction to this law. We are not satisfied either, MPs, because this law will not lead to those solutions that we all expect, will not prevent domestic violence at all, or not to the extent that we expect, because if we regulate something by law, the effects should be quite different. What makes me assume that's the case? In the light of this bill, you have also called for the provision of Article 18. The Istanbul Convention and it is somehow dominant in reason why we approach the adoption of this law. But someone before me said that in 2011, and now not to say all the dates that our country's activities were in connection with this convention, and now this law will be passed in November 2016, and will apply from 1 June 2017. Thus, the fact that this law does not enter into force, or will not apply after adoption, suggests that you have no serious intention, nor that this law, according to its concept, can lead to an improvement in the situation. But it is said that multi-resor content is the most important here, because there will be several state authorities involved in preventing these problems. What Verica Radeta also spoke of, dispersion of criminal and legal provisions in our positive laws, is something that prevents the efficiency of courts. All that was provided for by this law could be regulated by the Criminal Code and amendments to the Family Law, by what we could say – if the crime was committed within the family, then it would be considered to be a more serious crime than its basic being. Then it would be easier for the judges, and it would be easier for those who need to rely on this law when applying it. So the reason we have increased domestic violence is because no one has treated and done anything to solve these problems so that simply these other problems are less. He's well noticed and noticed that this is no longer a private matter, that the state should and morale, but through this bill it's not possible and you didn't really seem to have any serious intention. I'm going to show you on the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code of Reasons, what you yesterday, Madam Minister, spoke and read the most reasons of the law, I thought you thought that MPs did not read the laws, on the one hand, and on the other hand I was afraid that you had no intention of coming to this Parliament to break the Prime Minister's record that you had exposés longer than he had. Yesterday in your presentation, it seemed to have been targeted. Now, what do you say to the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in the light of that law? In the reasons for the adoption of this law, you find that criminal law provides sufficient opportunities to combat crime, and that it is not the reason for changes and additions that it does not provide adequate opportunities on this plan, but you are doing so because of agreeing with European Union regulations, which you want to become a member as soon as possible. Of course, we don't even want that to happen. That's where you predicted some new crimes related to privatisation. Better late than never. But it's too late. Privatisation is to the greatest extent, except for those 24 who have not been enlightened to this day, and it has been an obligation, and it has been the government's obligation, it has taken on such a commitment. If he's going to give some effects now, I don't know, I'm not sure. But, well, once again, I say it's better ever than never. One new crime that you are introducing by following, and yet another colleague spoke about it and set up some dilemmas that I could fully accept, but here the monitoring is quite characteristic and is being held in a period behind us, which is when local authorities are formed, and after the elections in April 2016. Who's got the most follow-up? They were followed by candidates and by people who were tasked with forming local authorities. They're in most cases, this time it happened, the next time I don't think it's going to be like that, by members of the SNS, by being followed by both the committees and other officials and officials of other parties to come to the bar to form power. What do you say further in the interpretation of the Criminal Code? The aim was not to access amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in all cases in which they would be justified. Look, you say it. Among other reasons is that the EU negotiation process will show the need for certain interventions to be precise only during these negotiations. When it comes to agreeing with all relevant EU documents, it would be premature to do so already at this stage until EU entry. More time to join the EU, you find there. You're one big calculator. We are in favour of stopping you on your way to the EU. You have not yet fully defined your wish whether it is so strong and strong that you want to join the EU or not? If you do not want to, tell us in this you will have full support and MPs, as well as all those who consistently follow and have understanding and support for the policy of the SRS. There's another very interesting legal proposal here, and that's the law on amendments and additions to the law on the confiscation of property arising from criminal acts. On the six pages, these amendments and additions are written, and 323 pages are showing whether our regulations are in line with EU regulations and you said this was translated into English, and we showed you that English is not in official use in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6231	Thank you. The word is "Sarko" Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6232	Thank you. We will, and I will personally support this set of laws. I want to tell the Minister that it's a good thing these laws came up. First of all, this law is with a certain delay in harmonising our legislation with the Istanbul Convention. For those here who have some doubts, the first country to ratify the Istanbul Convention is Turkey. So, the European countries have practically all agreed to introduce for the first time a comprehensive legislation that prevents violence against women and domestic violence. Personally, I think that law is needed, more than necessary, but I would only warn fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament and the public that a law cannot, in itself, in itself, change something that unfortunately exists. I must say with great regret that there is much more to this violence than even the premonition of people, and that violence is one of the kinds of violence that remains unrecorded, or unreported. You've seen in the last few months there have been some drastic cases of women killings, and you've seen when journalists start to get deeper into that story that there's always violence against that woman, who either ignored the Centre for Social Work or didn't seriously assess enough that it was something serious or even her family thought it wasn't something that deserved the law to deal with. I have to say, statistics show that violence is usually suffered by women who are unemployed and who don't actually have any other alternative, they can't divorce, they can't leave. So, above all, unemployed and less educated women, they are primarily victims of this violence. But while this is the most characteristic violence for us in society, we are about to change the whole culture that it is considered unacceptable in society as a whole, that it is something society will condemn and something that the institutions involved will do, it is the police and social work centres to take more seriously than ever before. I must say, there is another form of violence that has almost been accepted in our society, which is violence against children. In our society, beatings are thought to be a basic educational tool for children, especially small children, and unfortunately, there are my colleagues, I would say a pseudo-contractor who even publicly defends it. The question of punishment in the process of raising children is something that we can discuss for a long time, it's not any scientific gathering or symposium that I would now be doing very serious research on. So there are certainly a lot of experts who think that the measure of punishment in the process of education has its place, but that punishment must be fully consistent and must be instantaneous and children must be perfectly clear why it is punished and should not be physical. So when we talk about domestic violence, not just in front of a woman, but the other part of domestic violence, then his victims are not only older people, but are very often victims of children. The children are in a particularly difficult position because the child cannot leave the family. The kid's hiding it's been beaten, his arm's broken because someone threw it down the stairs. I know the case that my mother used a hot iron to iron the child. Often pediatricians themselves have to learn to ask the child how it happened, because the child lies, says – I hit myself, I fell. Although it's a terrible drastic, physical abuse of children, because the child is helpless and knows he has to go back to the same family he came out of. The child has no alternative to how to protect himself because it returns to those same parents. If society doesn't do something about this, then we'll either have a child who's in terrible difficult conditions growing up and developing like a man, which will have consequences. Or we'll create a bully who thinks violence is a legitimate means of behavior in family and society. I'd just like to warn you, when we talk about domestic violence, that besides women, especially taking care of children, because that famous saying - the beating came out of heaven, it's a disaster. That doesn't have a serious psychologist to defend that. I once again declare, stand behind what I said, physical violence is illegal. The punishment yes, but the punishment may be very different and the punishment must be appropriate and must never be exaggerated and be delayed and so on. So what I'm saying is, you don't need that kind of optimism. The law is necessary and should have been passed and it is good that it will be passed. It means the punishment was proposed and done, but the whole culture of violence. We here have reality shows in which violence is shown to a wide audience. Excuse me, this is about humiliating women on television. You have the most visible shows in which women are humiliated in a way that is almost unimaginable. Our broadcasting agency that has the right to punish broadcasters, even if it shuts them down, even permanently taking their license, must stand in the way of those people who are in these bodies, who decide, indeed as I would say, not doing their job in this case. They cannot be guided by the financial interests of the owners of these televisions. So we have a situation where when we talk about violence against women, humiliation of women, abuse of women, just look at these most watched TV shows, and you'll see that it happens to them every day. As far as the genocide law is concerned, I support that law, but there's obviously been a compromise, just to let you know. Here it refers to the judgments of domestic courts. As you know, genocide is the most difficult form of crime. We do not have the verdicts of our courts, and only this permanent International Criminal Court is mentioned here, which has only one such verdict, but it is certain that the political decision leaves out the court for crimes in the former Yugoslavia of Rwanda which, as you know, has, as far as Srebrenica is concerned, three convictions. It is the real command of the Drink Corps General Krstic, where the word genocide appears. Three times that went into law school. We can deny it, we can close it and say it – we don't care about it, but the reality of the world is that these judgments are made and that they are in a very broad explanation of these judgments. So my only regret, as I would say and regret that one step back is not to accept that denying this kind of genocide is what we just had here in this assembly hall, should also be sanctioned by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6233	Thank you. The word is Maja Vidinović. Have Aleksandra Tomic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6234	Thank you very much. President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important and I welcome the fact that today we have the opportunity to discuss this extremely important law, and for this reason at first I must say that today we have been witnesses and on one side of brutal abuse of violence, a verbal mockery of victims that I find inadmissible to encourage from anywhere, especially from parliament. On the other hand, we had a rather embarrassing banalisation of everything we are talking about today, which is why I find it particularly important that the discussion of this topic be above the policy, above the life and the ways in which both my colleagues and some of you, and especially colleagues Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jerkov spoke of the inadmissibility of violence and our obligation to tolerate such a thing in any segment of society. The need to speak out loudly is unfortunately confirmed today in Parliament. What's important is that we send a message and we're all absolutely aware that violence, domestic violence, is not a family and private matter, is not a thing that happens behind some other door and thing that shouldn't concern each of us. It's a social issue, it's a political question. That, if you will, is also a criminal issue, because it is the most serious and most sensitive possible form of crime. It is something that each of us and this society are obliged to make a loud determination, to speak loudly about these issues. A protected and secure citizen, a protected woman, a protected and secure child, who is the primary goal and the need to have a system, as my colleague Jerkov said, who protects him, who does not leave him alone for the extra trouble he suffers, is still unprotected from that system. The media report on women, and I am glad that Mr. Korać has particularly worked from his professional angle on this subject, is something that should concern us all, not only the non-responsibility of the competent body for the monitoring of electronic media, but one non-reaction of society, other than loud NGOs who follow such a thing closely and react, we have one complete tolerance to violence, something we're used to, something we occasionally hit, something we don't understand in the best way that the problem that deeply destroys this society and every segment of it. Family violence and that's what's the problem, and that's why our voice should be louder, domestic violence most often, and that's what all the research shows, followed by inadmissible silence. This silence that monitors violence is also characteristic of those who suffer violence because of shame, because of feelings of uncertainty and mistrust in the system. This silence is also characteristic of violent people, those who commit violence. This silence, unfortunately, is characteristic of the immediate environment. The relationship between our society and every citizen's relationship to domestic violence is the measure of our character, the measure of our willingness to deal with this huge problem. It is our obligation to speak out loud about this subject and to make it clear and to make no doubt that violence is never, ever, a colleague of the MPs you spoke before Mr. Koraq, I must tell you never, ever, has an excuse and there is no but as a point behind a sentence condemning violence. There is no such thing as condemning violence, but. Such a thing is inadmissible and that space in the brain that leaves us space as we speak, but about looking for an alibi or justification, which unfortunately we can hear from some of us, unfortunately we can and unfortunately my colleagues have talked about, let us also see in court practice that facilitates the environment, among other things, for violence and brutal murder takes jealousy and, as counterpart Jerkov said, alcoholism and any other extenuating circumstance. These are things that are inadmissible. On the other hand, that the thesis that violence is a private matter, not a serious social problem, those thematics that we have heard today, and that they are biting off with some traditional values, that is a deeply worrying thesis that should concern us. And to ask the question -- how can something as terrible as violence be taken under the word value, whose, whatever, especially not ours. We have no right to violence because we gave birth to someone. We have no right to violence because it's our wife. We don't have the right to violence because someone deserves a beating or they'll think about it next time she says something. It's absolutely inadmissible, and it's very simple. And it is very important that everyone here together, and especially my fellow MPs, send a clear message that absolutely has no doubt, which is that you are not a man if you hit a woman or a child, you are not a man, or a Serb, or a Martian, you are a poor man and a coward. It is very important that we all say this message and that all of our absolutes that this law is being adopted tomorrow when it is adopted, and we have submitted a number of amendments in order to try to influence every area, and you will agree that it is being applied, and later on, control and implementation of something in which you will have us as MPs as partners. Our common problem is not to view violence as a private or family matter we must understand as our obligation, because we must not be a society that will call the police more often when we hear loud music from the next apartment, but what we call the police when we hear from someone's house or cry. It is a common obligation and I believe that we will discuss these things more specifically in our discussion of the amendments. In the end, we are obliged to refer to all those who listen to us today, especially the victims of violence who unfortunately had the opportunity to, through the brutal abuse of their suffering, to say that today we are not just declaring ourselves in support of the fight against violence, that we will not just vote for this law, that our fight is neither stopping nor ending, it is only then that it begins. It is our duty, each and every one of us, to speak loudly and clearly about this matter in every place. Our obligation as Members of the People is to control you, Madam Minister, and to keep all structures and all state services in the system under control and to require you to carry out a continuous analysis of the application of these laws. Very briefly, if time allows, I will refer to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We've submitted a number of amendments. I ask you to take a closer look at them. It is only two things, first of all, that the reason for the urgent procedure is the need for our compliance with European legislation, which is commendation, but does not stand as a fact that the laws have been applied since 2018 and that you do not end the criminal act of abuse of the responsible person in the company despite continued pressures, despite continued findings from the European Commission to end such a thing. If your explanation for the urgent procedure is this – the need to bring legislation into line with European legislation as soon as possible, so why not end a crime that is truly unremembered in our practice, for which you are not primarily responsible, you simply inherited it, but we expected to influence it to be abolished...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6236	... A crime for political abuse and it is our duty to put an end to it as soon as possible. I don't have time for another.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6237	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6238	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ministers, fellow MPs, I will refer only to this law which today is about the focus of all the proposed laws relating to the prevention of domestic violence and somewhere it seems to me that we forgot to score on this topic as MPs, as the Women's Parliamentary Network, which has recognised since 2013, when it was formed, that we are here as women and as members of all political parties recognized this problem in society. I think it really is today's beginning of a new life in terms of the work of the judiciary on this subject, and somewhere the initiative has come since 2013. Just because the Women's Parliamentary Network is on its way by organising the SNS, the topic doesn't want to appear the way it should. It should be said that the MPs of all parties here have practically activated this topic. It should be said that since 2013, an adequate solution is needed to make such a law. Since 2013 until today, this law has been done much better than the law has not been done at all, because until then we have functioned as Serbia under the law of 2005 under all the problems that existed. That is why I thank you, Madam Minister, for being in the position of the minister of justice today, and for women, that this is the first law we have in Serbia, with all the new concept that has been given. Perhaps he is not the best, according to some MPs who may not agree at the moment and will not vote in favour of this bill, but is the only one who has practically existed in public so far. For 20 years, the NGO has been struggling that such a law exists. For twenty years, this kind of law did not exist. That's why I think it's important that he's even brought in and that everything that we're talking about today is getting a lot of weight in the public, because the media has started to deal in an adequate way with this subject, but I would draw attention to what my colleagues have noticed, that is that many research is in favour of favouring the percentage of women who suffer violence in a certain way. The basic question arises when you say in public whether it is 50%, 30% of women, what is the sample of women questioned in general when we say that women suffer violence in Serbia? So, it is not at all a question of Serbia being portrayed as the only violent country, because we have seen that the high percentage of violent people and highly developed countries, members of the European Union, is the question of how the state will deal with such problems in the future. It is a great courage to go out today and propose a law like this, to adopt it and say that it will be applied since 2017. Why will it be applied then? Because we need the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to educate their people who enforce the law on the ground, which is the first disposal of the bully from the house, to simply implement education by system and procedures, so that there is no abuse in such a procedure of law enforcement and that a message comes to a bully that we want to adopt this law. What I'm still trying to say is that certain media have given support to this law in an adequate way and that without media support, such a topic and such problems could not be illuminated in society, because MPs are very much talking about certain problems here in parliament, but sometimes they are not recognized in society, that we should discuss this in an adequate way. In the end, I'd say it's very important that violence at all against women, men, since we're talking about gender equality, in some percentages, 93% of women are victims of violence, but 7% are men, so there's obviously a topic of talking about where children are victims of violence, but God and parents are victims of violence by children. This is the rise in a certain percentage of youth violence, but it is interesting so far that there has been no research. For the last three years, more and more of these researches have been seeking to draw attention to these topics. It is not good that someone who passed the law in 2005, and in 2006, the president of their party had certain companies that bought out licenses for some realistic programs, the type of "Great Brother", which promoted violence, now say that this is simply a topic where only those who are now in power are guilty, but that this responsibility, as far as media promotion is concerned, we should all draw attention together and put pressure on the public in a certain way that such topics are no longer part of any programme on television channels. That is why it is certain in the voting day that this law will ultimately be supported and we will work to improve legal solutions in the future. What is particularly important today is the law relating to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which introduced the harmonisation of certain European directives and standards of new work, such as the part relating to acts of small importance, whose abolition practically took place through Slovenia and Montenegro, but in return for certain prison sentences. Then, the part relating to parole and fines. The most interesting part is business. So, the introduction of seven types of crimes that have not existed so far shows, along with the work relating to financial forensics, the determination of the Serbian government to really help, above all, judges who conduct certain criminal proceedings so that they can rule in favour of the damaged parties, because that was obviously not the case so far. So, we had a situation that we wanted to fight corruption and as a state, and we had no legal opportunity for judges to rule at all in favour of the state or for the benefit of the damaged party, because those who committed certain abuses meant all about the cost of Serbian citizens, all about the cost of the budget, couldn't be sanctioned. Today we have proposals for new crimes. In addition to the abuse of the positions of responsible persons, in addition to inflicting damage to the economy, in addition to the trust that has been misused in carrying out economic activity, we also have criminal acts relating to privatisation, which is very interesting for our society, but we also have a part relating to the abuse of cards without cover, especially when we talk about state money and I think this is very important in this principle debate to say that all those who want good Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and economic development need to support such drafts of the law. That's why in voting day, as representatives of the SNS, we will surely support such a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6239	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Momo Colaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6240	Would you be so kind as to tell me how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6241	You have nine minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6242	We have a joint joint discussion on four draft laws. We have a situation, as they say, that a total of 300 amendments have been submitted to these four laws. It can be translated this way -- everyone verbally supports the bill's proposals, some swear they'll vote, but they've all submitted amendments. All MP groups have some objections. By the logic of things, it would be best if these laws were removed from the agenda, that they were possibly processed, that they came as new proposals, because obviously there was some deficiency, and everyone noticed it, and everyone saw it, regardless of the oath that they were against violence. Violence has always been forbidden, just to remind you. This law does not prohibit the first one on the agenda. But to begin with, what are all our remarks? We have submitted a total of 27 amendments, counting that if something can be improved, since most will vote, but if we take this law on preventing domestic violence, it has only 38 members, we have submitted 13 amendments and it should enter into force on 1 June 2017. I have to say, that law is very wrong. Why? Because there are no clear, precise provisions on how to prevent something that many circumstances suggest can happen. Another problem is that many definitions go beyond the framework already prescribed by the relevant Code of Criminal Code and the relevant provisions of Family Law, so that someone can get the wrong impression that these two laws are the basis for this law. That is not true, but the basis for this law is the protocols that are prescribed and that are raised in this way to the level of law, and that is the main problem of this bill. I don't want to talk about these amendments specifically. He'll be in the discussion in detail of the possibility of saying anything about anything. As for these changes to the Criminal Code, let me just tell you that it's about 70 members when it's added up. The law would start to apply in one part of 1 June 2017, and in one part of 1 March 2018. We've only submitted four amendments. Why only four amendments? Because we are absolutely sure that before June 2017, this law will have to go to re-doping. Why go to re-doing? That's his temper. Why? The law was passed in 2005, so there were two corrections in 2005, so it was changed twice in 2009, and once in 2013, once in 2012, and once in 2014. Apparently, these changes, modifications, etc., have been made under some influence, and the public is already familiar. It is one time because of Stanko Sutotic and Miskovic, the second time because of someone else, the third, etc., etc. The proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, the main flaw, is that it is miswritten. You're installing a brand-new crime that is not a feature of this space, not a cultural pattern, not religious customs, counting on you to fulfill some of the tasks of a convention, but forgetting a very important thing that, unfortunately, keeps repeating. Let me remind you what this is about. Serbia was not under the obligation of an international, international legal obligation to pass the Restitution Act. So there is no such international regulation. When we passed that law, we ourselves prescribed the jurisdiction of the fourth pillar, which is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We have done ourselves normative and legal damage alike with alimony here on beautiful goals, on beautiful desires etc. And we can't get out of it today. It will be similar with this situation with regard to several crimes that represent failed translations of something we do not need. A team that protects these crimes is already protected by many other norms of the Criminal Code, where life, body, dignity, etc. is protected. Totally unnecessary. Why? He is in a hurry to the EU, and you know that the project task in these four years is to get Serbia to the door. Well, Serbia's at the door now. So it's right in front of the door. No need to do that, no need to rush. It's a similar situation with this new criminal act that you called a disputation. There is no international obligation, there is no international obligation. Why do we impose it on ourselves? In all these laws, these four, we're talking about a big problem is that one human right is raised to one pedestal, and that ignores the existence of other absolute rights that are in the same rank and perhaps more significant. We have really bad experiences with the application of both the Criminal Code and the Family Code when it comes to domestic violence. I'm not going to deliberately state what court is, or who the parties are, but you have a situation like this where here's a sentence, so the conclusion is based on a direct fact, the incontrovertible fact that the accused is, the measures for the restraining of the damage at a certain distance given by the verdict that was subsequently abolished. This verdict does not produce a legal fact that I do not speak any further. In the end, the procedure got out of the family's field of domestic violence, it came to the stage of mandatory psychiatric treatment, as the possible perpetrator contests and attacks by state authorities. That's the main reason why he's doubting his complicity. Well, you critics of the state take care of, there are such experts who could sign something like that, just like in this case. These are very dangerous things. The possibility of abuses made possible by these extremely unsettled regulations is far greater than what can potentially be useful. To remind you of one thing, it's no problem for society if a few culprits go unpunished, it's a great shame for society if an innocent man is convicted. That principle is trampled in these bill proposals. That's what you need to know. Out of habit, since the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the fight against organised crime was brought in 2003 in a storm and other regulations have been amended so that Prosecutor Ostojic could perform the prosecutorial post. We have submitted a few amendments to this bill that has dangerous irregularities, which I must tell you, you think everything can be covered...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6243	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6244	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the Honorable People's MPs, the president of the PUPS party's parliamentary group has expressed the position of our parliamentary group on all the laws, especially on the Law of Violence in the Family. Also respected MP Vera Paunovic will talk about the law in principle. I want to talk about this law, about issues that have not been announced in parliament so far, and that is not what we're talking about. In our practice, it is neglected, even mentioned a little. It's about domestic violence against old people. General domestic violence must be seen to be on the rise, and it is becoming more and more severe, especially towards children and women. For this reason, I support all measures taken by the state authorities, I support me by the Parliamentary Group of Women, I support the measures of the non-governmental sector in relation to the fight against domestic violence. I also point out that violence against old faces is on the rise and it takes on the character of cruel discrimination. First of all, I have to say it's from my own children and my own grandchildren. According to the Trustee for Equality and According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, this type of violence takes on a percentage of total violence between 10 and 12% of all reported violence. 49% of old people claim to have experienced some kind of domestic violence and discrimination. 13,000 old people, that's 11% who have experienced some kind of domestic abuse. If we know that in Serbia, the number of old faces is increasing, then we can assume that this will also grow in the coming period. What comes out in public, and that's on occasion, according to my assessment, is just the tip of the iceberg, because these cases are convincingly least reported to the competent authorities. That's why there are more patterns in my assessment, starting with the violence that is taking place in the family circle and through personal prejudice that older people are useless and represent the cost of society, and to the inertness of the old people themselves who misbehave entirely passively and because of their own attitudes and pride do not report violence, but are silent and suffering. Violence against old people in the family has a variety of forms. Starting with financial abuse that is increasingly widespread, we are increasingly hearing about cases of physical abuse, including the murders of parents, unfortunately the largest number of children and their grandchildren. In this year alone, the data is from the press because they don't register, over 20 old people were killed by their children and their grandchildren. Even 54% of old people say that they do not have their own incomes but that they have younger family members who often take their liquids or throw out, there are more examples, from their own apartments. The specificity of discrimination between the elderly is in its duality. We have it in a social life that is often tolerated and passed over. So almost a quarter of the old said that there was some discomfort in hospitals - 19%, in health homes 16%, in courts 11%, in state institutions more than 30%, on the street, in the family not to speak. This says that the old ones fall according to my deep assessment in the category that most affects discrimination and which often turns into cruel violence. On the other hand, dear Minister, for this reason and we support this law in all our heart, we have hidden discrimination within the family and in these cases the legal system works in the best way. Even these occurrences and cases are not recorded in state institutions. I believe that one of the patterns for this increasingly widespread phenomenon of domestic violence against the old is a certain legal void that exists in our regulations. Namely, our 2006 Constitution left out an earlier provision under which children were obliged to take care of their parents, thus abolishing the principle of intergenerational solidarity in the highest legal act. Family law does not regulate a child's obligation to a parent in 2005 but only mentions them in general in several places. And then we need to be surprised why violence against old people is growing more and more when the legal provisions that should prevent it are in principle. The vast majority of the elderly will always be willing to help their family, their descendants, their children, grandchildren in order for them to be happier, but also those children and grandchildren must be aware that their parents, grandparents also have the right to spend their age in a dignified way, not that they experience the end of their lives as descendants putting them in a humiliating position. Therefore, in the debate on the change of the political system, I raised this issue and suggested that the Constitution be complemented in its amendments and additions to this matter. I am deeply hoping that all MPs, especially the Government, will support this idea of mine. At the very end, I am convinced that most MPs will support this law, and our MP group, PUPS, I am convinced that they will support the whole and it is only one move in an effort to reduce violence against all, older people and eradicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6245	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6246	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs, we witness daily news headlines that report cases of domestic violence, serious physical injuries, murders, mutilations, various forms of experience. The existing legislations that have been applied for many years, I am specifically referring to the provisions of the Criminal Code and Family Law and the current practice and experience have shown half and insufficient results in prevention, reforming domestic violence. We've mostly dealt with the consequences of violence so far. Just preventing domestic violence was in general the basic motivation to propose this law in order to adequately respond to this modern evil. I would therefore stress that this law is not just another step in harmonising our legislation with international standards and applicable conventions, but it has a prominent human component and implies an individual psycho-social approach where specific problems of each individual victim of domestic violence are recognised and given the chance to make important life decisions and to get out of the ‘circular vaciosis’ or these bewitched circle that is often associated with fatal consequences. That's why I find this extremely sensitive matter to regulate legal norms, because none of the cases are the same. No bully is the same, no victim is the same, no living situation is the same, and violence is rising from day to day, the ferociousness of a bully becomes epic, and the impotence of the victims and the pasiving of a bully mainly results in catastrophic consequences. The rule is there are no rules in situations like this. The psychological frustrations of violent men, their senses, their impotences, and the need to hurt others will speak waist and profil them in an appropriate manner. The aim of this bill is to make it clear to violent people that their actions will not go unpunished, but also to make it clear to victims of violence that they are not alone and that they can always, without fear, turn to help with a specific coma. In many cases, this first step when the victim addresses someone for help is essentially the hardest step because fear of revenge is more dominant than the need to protect his own life or the life of a family member. When violence starts to exist, the victims are silent, retreating inside themselves, they stop communicating with friends, relatives, neighbors so that something will not be known or heard. Also, we must not lose sight of the fact that one violence produces other violence, that children accept the parameters of their parents’ behavior, that if, for example, a father is violent toward his mother, the son will accept such a model of conduct, and he will act like that tomorrow, reflecting that pattern. In one word, the spiral of evil has neither the beginning nor the end. In fact, the end is the most common or quite often the loss of the victim's life by the bully, the suicide of the victim to escape from the family hell, but there is also a situation where victims in the given circumstances take justice into their own hands and condemn the bully. I am sure that the new law will effectively address one of the major problems of our society, which is insufficiently good co-operation between the institutions responsible for solving certain citizens' problems. In this case, co-operation between competent institutions is clearly defined, namely the tasks of the coordination and co-operation group, and this guarantees that the envisaged emergency measures will indeed be able to protect victims of domestic violence, but for the first time and potential victims, which is the fundamental objective of this law. The special education you spoke of is an additional guarantee of a comprehensive inter-sectoral approach and the use of all the potentials of the community to prevent domestic violence, but also organised assistance for victims and to prevent new attacks on violent persons if violence occurs. Given today's level of human rights awareness and the civilized need to protect sensitive population groups and achieve zero tolerance to violence, such a law and laws that are now on the agenda are necessary for us, so that in the day of voting, as well as my MP group of SNS, I will support all proposals of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6247	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6248	The President-in-Office, honourable Minister Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no doubt that this set of laws before us today speaks of a very important fact, regardless of the number of amendments submitted. I believe that it is clear to everyone that this is a turning point when the state has decided to show that it is stronger than crime, than violence, from terrorism and from corruption and in this light it is necessary to observe this initiative, a normative initiative and a legal initiative, which comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. In previous periods, we looked at different ways in which the wrestling state and crime, in terms of who is stronger and who will have more impact on social, economic and all other flows. Obviously, the moment has matured to show that the state is stronger through serious normative and organisational solutions, the state shows that it is the one who has absolute authority in one territory. This is not only important for the security of citizens, it is also important for Serbia's overall social economic development. In that sense, this is something that deserves attention and should be supported, especially by these laws concerning the establishment of new institutions to fight crime, corruption and terrorism. I think this is an opportunity to finally build serious institutions that will fight crime and corruption in the coming period. It's an opportunity to finally build a state, to get trained, professional civil servants, people dedicated to the state through training and through the successful application of these laws. I would like to say that organisational and normative foundations have been laid for the fight against crime and corruption in the country, especially when it comes to the law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, i.e. State authorities and their competences have been defined and the deadlines for action have been reduced, which is very important, and criminal policy has been tightened. That's what we've missed in the past. My entire exposure will concern institutions, and I will first look back at some of the things that are extremely important and important for the Ministry of Justice, where your support is important in the coming period. First, the question of the judiciary, the question of the holders of judicial functions. I think this is the moment, and that is why I urge you, dear Minister, to strongly and in every way possible support the independent and independent judiciary. It must be a recipient that this law will be applied successfully. Why am I saying that? Because our judiciary went through a terribly difficult period, a period of humiliation, a period that lived in fear and a period that, after a catastrophic reform that it went through, and whose bearers are now fenced, came into a situation and all of us came together to rebuild the independent judiciary. You know, I was an MP in that period. In a strange way, it's as if Robesper's revolutionary bill on suspects has returned, when we talk about how judges were then elected and resolved. It was enough for some local party official in power to suspect that one of their representatives of judicial officials and not to be re-elected. Yes, the judiciary is in fear of the executive, and this is an opportunity, because it has passed and because it has been expelled into the street, this is an opportunity to strongly support it, finally build a strong judiciary that will be able to apply these laws in a successful fight against crime and corruption. It is probably your most important role now, and I believe that through institutional solutions, but also through practical support, we will succeed. The other thing is training. Yes, it is said here in the light of the law that they are the concentration of the best professional resources the state has. In that sense, I see that an accent has been put on the question of training through the Judicial Academy. It's very important, but you have to strengthen the Judicial Academy in order to be able to bring out this serious and complex job, because in addition to detailing certain terms that we have here, there is a large number of legal standards, a large number of legal standards where we need a seriously trained judiciary that will properly apply it, so that we don't get misapply and that, eventually, we don't get thrown into our opposites. I believe that we have high-quality, successful and courageous judges, but to apply these laws, you need to strengthen the Judicial Academy even more, because through the reports we have received, we have not gotten the impression that, especially when it comes to permanent training, all plans have been implemented until the end. It's supposed to be one of the plans in the perspective, and I believe it's going to be done. Of course, we expect the training program to be delivered as soon as possible. Of course, the issue of coordination, not a little problem. You know, there's a goodwill, there's professional staff in institutions, I'm talking about the prosecution, the courts, the police, the welfare center, but if there's no successful coordination in the application and implementation of these laws, I'm afraid their effects won't be good. That is why it is a task, and I believe that you will successfully solve it, the task of the Ministry of Justice, that these three segments, which concern strengthening institutions and successful law enforcement, are successful and realising. Good solutions concern the introduction of new institutions and new institutes. I believe that, especially when it comes to the law on the fight against organised crime and corruption, it solves it successfully. The only thing I propose is that when it comes to strike groups, one of the members of the strike groups is necessarily financial forensics. It can be explicitly assumed that it will be, but I believe that it may even be necessary in some future period to specify it. So let me get this straight. Jake institutions, an independent and independent judiciary, successful training is the only real recipient that these laws are successfully implemented and that the state finally shows that it is stronger than crime. This is an important task for the Department of Justice, and I am convinced that you will succeed and realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6249	Thank you. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6250	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is today discussing a very important set of law in the area of the judiciary. On this occasion, as will most previous speakers and colleagues, I will devote myself to the proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence, which is for the first time in Serbia and because of the seriousness of the problem it is dealing with deserves special attention in parliament. There's a saying that says: healthy family healthy society. From this truth, we need to draw both the state and society's relationship to the phenomenon of domestic violence, which, unfortunately, is becoming more serious, more widespread and more dangerous for the family's health. The consequences of family violence are multiple - psychological, health, social, economic, legal, consequences for the family, but also consequences for society in general. We must point out that domestic violence is rarely a trigger for other forms of violence, starting with peer violence in stadiums, public gatherings, on the street, to social and criminal behavior in its most difficult forms of murder. Unsupervised and untreated violence in the family almost as a rule creates bullies in the next generations, so it can go on indefinitely. That's how family collapses as a basic cell of society, and thus society and social values in general. The phenomenon of violence meets an entire modern civilization. This is a planetary problem that has led to the involvement of international organisations in its resolution. The international legal basis today is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, known as the Istanbul Convention. This Convention was signed in 2012 and ratified in 2013. In addition to this Convention, our obligation to bring our legislation into line with the mechanisms of prevention and the fight against violence defined in this document. The law that is before us represents our domestic legal framework for the prevention of violence, sanctioning violent persons and supporting victims of domestic violence. Unfortunately, we are witnessing almost daily media coverage of domestic violence and scenes that we watch on television or on the headlines of daily newspapers are terrifying. The most common victims are women, but children who are either witnesses or victims of violence themselves. The causes of domestic violence are numerous, but the most common are jealousy, alcoholism, drug abuse, is the economic uncertainty of the family, unemployment, endangered existence, it causes violence, but it affects, unfortunately, and that the victim suffers. Research on media writing about domestic violence done for the needs of the Autonomous Women's Centre says that for a period of February-April 2016, therefore 90 days, 460 information on violence against women and domestic violence was published, and on the 53 front pages of the daily newspaper family violence was a topic. In as many as 353 cases, women were victims of violence. Unfortunately, there were no numbers and fatalities. 18 women were killed in the first seven months of this year alone. These unencumbered data require a country's systematic and continuous way of countering violence of all forms, which is primarily prevention of violence that should take place at the primary, secondary and tertiary level. International documents also oblige us to prevent violence, but also the situation in terms of the situation and the consequences of family violence in Serbia. According to the World Health Organization definition, primary prevention involves all activities aimed at preventing violence. Secondary prevention involves reacting and limiting the harmful consequences of violence, right after the violence took place, with the aim of limiting the consequences. Tertiary prevention involves longer term treatment, as well as support for victims of violence to prevent further harmful effects and repeated violence. The bill provides for the synchronised functioning of all competent authorities and institutions, which should contribute much faster to detecting violence, protecting victims and supporting the family. However, in order not only to continue to deal with the consequences, we need to put more precise provisions on primary prevention into the text of the law, above all. For these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment imposing a legal obligation on primary prevention of domestic violence as an institutional form of preventing domestic violence. All competent national authorities and institutions in the field of child and social protection, from education and education, health care, should participate in the prevention. Prevention must have a multidisciplinary approach precisely because of the consequences of domestic violence, which have a psychological, social, health, legal and economic character. The victim of violence suffers in all life's fields. It must be implemented from the earliest preschool age of children. And why must we teach children nonviolent behavior? Because the model of non-violent behavior is being transmitted. The son of a bully in a later life can become a bully and an unorthodox daughter whose mother is a victim of violence and suffers violence herself during a later period of life. Witnesses of violence can also be supporters of peer and other forms of violence. We also propose by amendment the adoption of a national strategy to prevent domestic violence. Serbia has so far had two strategies dealing with violence against women, the National Strategy for improving women's positions and improving gender equality since 2009 and the National Strategy for the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women in the Family and Partnership Relations of 2011. Both strategies have expired. Now it's an empty space, so we don't have any strategic documents dealing with the prevention of violence and the consequences of violence against women and family. The victims of violence, as my colleagues have already said, and so do I, are not only women, although they are in the highest number, but children, to whom violence leaves consequences for life. Men, in turn, are mostly victims of psychological violence and, as women do not report violence mainly out of fear, men do not report because of feelings of shame, and they are unorthodox to lack of knowledge of the symptoms of violence. We therefore propose to adopt a new strategy whose objectives will be a comprehensive approach to prevention and combating all forms of domestic violence. When it comes to the solutions contained in the bill, we view them as the state's determination to violence within the family and the consequences of domestic violence as a decisive challenge. The fact is that the criminal code sanctioned crimes stemmed from domestic violence, but the Criminal Code treats the work already done, and we need a platform to prevent violence and violence. Zero tolerance of violence is absolutely our definition. That is why we support the adoption of a law that will represent a broad legal framework for the integrated action of all the country and society's competent factors in the fight against domestic violence. I believe that the minister and MPs will support our proposal because without a strategic document as a responsible state, we cannot seriously approach this problem. The SPS parliamentary group will support this and other draft laws in this joint search in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6251	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, as well as many colleagues today, and I will focus most on preventing domestic violence. Unfortunately, this topic has been burning lately. In the last ten years in Serbia, 314 women have suffered domestic violence, while at least 26 people have been victims of violence since early 2016. The front pages of the press are flooded with black chronicles. That's really disturbing. I feel very bad that today's discussion and session have given more attention to some political points, not realizing that this is a very sensitive law that we should discuss today. Someone's sitting at home today watching us. He's watching and listening to our discussion and he needs to believe us, he needs to trust the law that's being passed, he needs to trust the new system that's going to be set up, and he actually looks like we're not up to this challenge, that we're not up to the path of violence because this particular hall was where violence and was made today. The efforts of the Ministry of Labour, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, have actually been initiated by this law, have initiated a platform for the systematic fight against domestic violence, and today this law is before us. This is a very serious topic that we all need to agree on, whether we're a government or an opposition, whether this law seems right or wrong, it's important that there's some starting point. What they say is that we have 300 amendments and that's bad, that this law is bad because of it, it's not. It shows not that the law is bad, but rather shows the seriousness of this problem ahead of us. Each of us today may be the victim of domestic violence, women and children in excess of 90% of cases, while men in about 10% of cases. We must not remain immune to this subject because when everything comes down at the end of the day, responsibility is on us who vote for these laws that we pass. We all know that he's not really the bully who's gonna stop the violence, but the victim is the one who's gonna stop the violence. To do so, we need to establish a system that will allow the victim to feel secure to report this violence, primarily to get protection in a timely and strong manner from the state. The biggest problem so far was that there were no mechanisms to prevent the application process from causing even greater violence. That's why the victims of violence kept silent and silent, and it may have lasted for some years and years, eventually escalated and had some consequences that failed to be solved properly. That's why we're here today. We think today's bill of law is good. We think it can still be done. We believe that some of the 300 amendments that have been tabled will certainly be of quality and we will vote on it. What's important about this law is that it really encourages prevention and that there's this principle of zero tolerance that we all really stand for here in the hall. It is important that when domestic violence occurs that there is some legal basis for the basis of which the bully will be detained, on the basis of which an emergency measure will be imposed, thereby preventing further escalation and re-violence. That's why this bill is good. This bill definitely protects the victims more than the previous, or part of the Criminal Law that concerned this topic and the purpose of this law and what is very important is this multi-resulting co-operation, because here we have co-operation between the prosecution, co-operation between the police and the social work centre. It is precisely the institutions that are needed to really end the procedure in the right way. What I would point out as positive is that the victims of violence are strengthened, that they are increasingly reporting, that they believe more in the state nowadays, no matter how much we can see that there is an escalation in this problem. It is encouraging data, but we must not forget the information I mentioned that 314 women have been victims of violence in the last ten years, we must not forget the fact that 28 people this year have lost their lives because of domestic violence. That's why it's important that we team up in this fight. It is important that we do not turn this into a political discussion to collect points, it is important that we talk and that we give some constructive advice, that we have a constructive conversation, that this is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at, and surely there is a victim of violence out there, which is going to say, that this may be the time for me to report what is happening to me. In addition to our obligation to establish some security to that victim who reports, it is our duty to enable her to continue her life, to create conditions for her to go unbound for the bully to continue her life, to have economic conditions. Therefore, the unequivocal position of the Socialist Movement is that special subsidies should be provided for the employment of victims of domestic violence in co-operation with the National Employment Service...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6253	You're bringing an end to your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6254	... to allow possible conditions for an independent life. For this reason, the Socialist Movement will support this law in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6255	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected and respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, DSS MPs welcome the intention to pass a law on preventing domestic violence, and whether after all these debates and how much amendments will be made to this law, which will in practice be applicable and which will really help to prevent domestic violence, we will see and will depend on how much good amendments you will accept, which most of these MPs have given, depend on whether or not we will vote for this law. Many here, colleagues and colleagues, have said that domestic violence to the extent that we have even brought out the Serbian society here and statistics on how many front pages we are, how many breaking news in the prime TV shows is bombarding us with terrible reports of victims of violence and pictures, to see how the victims of violence go through. So today it seems to us that we have no more than to pass this law as soon as possible and that the sooner the law is applicable in practice. And the fact that from January 1st to Maltena, at least 24 women have been killed these days, is further worrying and obliging us. When violence occurs, we often wonder who made the appointment. Whether the victim was frightened so she didn't know who to turn to or dare or not to, very often many victims of violence hide or we have failed each other, because we often know that violence is happening in many families, but our motto is that it's not our problem, we turn our heads and let someone else handle it. And, of course, most often we say, it is the competent institutions that have not responded in good time and in time to prevent violence and to prevent the most difficult outcome of violence in the worst case scenario. So far, by monitoring the conduct of competent institutions in matters of violence, we have been able to notice that many institutions have either not responded in good time or have not exchanged information about reported domestic violence, so you have the case that from the moment the violence is reported in the police department to the D.A.'s Centre, it's been several weeks, and you have a case that a court case is resolved only after a year of violence. Very often unprofessional behaviour of employees in competent institutions, minimising and relativising domestic violence, very often we do not have the sanctions for such behaviour of competent, or employees and competent institutions so that very often we have the fatal consequences of domestic violence. We all see and want this law to be a zero tolerance for violence and this law should clearly determine whose jurisdiction it is in matters of state institutions, state authorities and institutions to deal with this violence. Of course, the first and primary pillars here in this law are foreseen by the police. They will be the first step from which to go further to the prosecution, to the courts and to the social work centre. Predicted special or specialized training for police employees, prosecutors, court employees does not necessarily mean that it will bring about a better one. Especially because we write this law, and we mean the current personnel potential, which these state authorities and these institutions have. Believe me, from practice, from the Centre for Social Work, otherwise social work centres are overloaded by their regular obligations, it has been reduced significantly over the last year for two days, even more, the number of professional staff in social work centres. They are burdened with their regular duties and jobs, and this is where the situation lies. It's a similar situation in both the police and the D.A.'s office and the courts. So I fear that because of the human resources of these competent institutions, we will not make any improvement and some shift unless we allow new experts and new professionals to be admitted in all these institutions. I'm just going for a little while because of the time I have to look back at the criminal measures in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6257	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6258	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6259	Time goes by fast. Vera Punović, you only have one minute and 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6260	I'll cut as short as I can, I just have to say a few words. Honorable MPs and respected members of the government, the concept of domestic violence in the bill is broadly defined than in the Family Law, because first of all, with the physical, psychological and sexual introduction and economic violence which as a form of psychological violence is a denial and control, unequal availability to common financial means. The fact that very few women report domestic violence because of their economic dependence on their partners, as well as the fear that they will accept the environment in which they live. Although this is not a member of the 12th, although it is not a declarative provision, it is the key to the law because the biggest problem is related to domestic violence, precisely because violence often occurs between four walls, far from the eyes of the public and from the reach of the knowledge of the state authorities. But in most of these accidents, it was later found that all these causes that led to the escalation of domestic violence in the form of injury, murders, had their own prehistory that was not a secret to other relatives, neighbors, and other people in the environment of violence and victims of violence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group will certainly support the adoption of this bill because we believe that this is a good step in the fight against more and more widespread domestic violence, while calling for other means to be applied in this fight, such as a stricter criminal policy of the courts, and more importantly, a constant work on the awareness of our people that domestic violence is an evil that must be put in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6262	Just one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6263	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6264	Dear Serbian citizens, I appeal to you to report any kind of violence without any concern that something bad will happen to you. And I wonder, in our democratic and free state, does anyone have the right to hurt, harass and kill someone's daughter, sister and mother? That's why we have to do everything we can to stop this evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6265	Thank you, MPs. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. Get Ghost Stojkovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6266	I will talk about the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence with a special emphasis on the population of children. I would remind my colleagues of a special committee, a Committee on the Rights of the Child within which, among other things, a task force has been formed and is responsible for the control and implementation of the Family Law in the work relating to the protection of children, as well as for the control of the application of this law by the competent authorities, which is very important. That the subject of violence has reached culmination shows us everyday events in the environment, even with a fatal outcome. There are no rules about who's a bully, whether he's educated, uneducated, whether he's young or old, a woman or a man, even children. It's a good thing this law is a necessary attempt to put an end to violence. With this law, we will not root out violence, surely, but looking at the gaps and repairing the existing situation gives hope and the impression that something is working on that plan. According to world statistics, one in four men will be violent towards their partner during life, and children are present in 80% of domestic violence. Children who have seen violence in their families can be aware of the destruction of this event and this pattern, but as adults, they cannot control their anger. Boys and girls who witnessed domestic violence are at double the risk of being themselves violent. The regulation of their emotions is difficult, and the need for domination is growing. It's the only way to survive for these children, so the victims' children become violent. Research also suggests that children of different ages react differently to violence. Preschool kids retreat inside, school kids feel insecure, lose interest in school activities, fight with their peers, and thus draw attention to themselves. Adolescence aside from failure at school has a high risk of delinquency and disease addiction. Between one-third and one-fifth of all youths who are somehow associated with addiction disease were exposed to domestic violence in any form, physically, emotionally, or verbally. When they start a family, they often become violent themselves. Most of these events will never be reported and this silence encourages domestic violence. I would also say that silence is the sight of negativity that violence is happening at all, and the negativity of the victims is resorted precisely out of fear and from facing the consequences of reporting, thinking that they're going into something more unknown, something more scary and stressful than the suffering of violence or shame, or from mistaken beliefs that they're doing it for their children, or by silence they're protecting their children. And that's where we come to this law. So far, everyone has been acting within their own feed, and exclusively their jurisdiction. Everyone looked at the problem from their own backyard and when reporting violence, this non-connection between institutions led to a victim's mistrust, because the problem is not being solved, and she met with it all the time - we are not in charge. Connecting officers now to the police, the court and the social work centres is a major shift. The only desire to protect children and this strong parental urge is, in fact, a great driving motive for parents to report violence, because from there everything and to seek professional help, help from these institutions that they will trust, because it is crucial. It should be pointed out that violence is a problem which has been and will be in the future and therefore needs to be worked on to prevent violence, and therefore this parliamentary group has put forth a great deal of effort to look at and show it in some way and this group has submitted amendments, stressing that the importance of such a major problem is, meaning a long line of years, where there has not been much prevention and problem-solving has now escalated with this type and this amount of violence. So we're thinking that prevention is something to work on. That's why I counted all these stages, so working in kindergarten, in school, including absolutely all institutions not just social work centres, and not just members of the MUP. I stress the importance of this National Strategy for the Prevention of Violence, which we have tabled in the amendment, because violence is not an institution's problem, it's not an individual's problem, it's a society's problem in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6267	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6268	Dear presidents, distinguished minister with associates, dear ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear citizens of Serbia, the fight against domestic violence does not know the difference in age, in gender, nationality, religious and ethicality. In the past 10 years, over 20 women who are victims of domestic violence suffered from domestic violence in Serbia, in 2016. Every woman in Serbia has suffered some forms of violence. To stop this negative statistics in Serbia, it is necessary to amend the Criminal Code of Serbia, it is necessary to pass and adopt a law on preventing domestic violence. The word we missed on Serbia's political scene is consistency. Today we had the opportunity to listen to various MPs who spoke about the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, who proposed more than 300 amendments, but somehow we have the next picture. They had more than two decades to propose to the Serbian parliament to adopt such a law, but for some reasons, they may not have adopted well-known ones. They are also responsible for inaction, they are responsible for the citizens of Serbia, they are responsible for women, old and children who have been victims in the past 10 years, in the past 20 years of domestic violence and violence in each place. The word describing phenomena on the Serbian political scene is hypocrisy. We also have MPs full of mouths to prevent domestic violence when they talk to experts, when they talk to representatives of civil society, when they talk to UN representatives, the Council of Europe, the EU. They then talk about how it is necessary to adopt this law, they are eager to wait when such a law will be found in the Assembly, and when that law finally comes, to remind you by the prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who in one of the top ten priorities in his exposé has just cited judicial reform and the adoption of laws concerning preventing domestic violence, then they have some other excuses why this law cannot be passed, why the Criminal Code cannot be amended. So the word missing to describe this phenomenon is, I repeat, hypocrisy. The proposed law on preventing domestic violence also provides for specialised police. It is necessary to sensitise police officers, to do education and training for prosecutors, it is necessary to strengthen and strengthen centres for social work. The problem that has existed so far in practice, when it comes to the laws that were in force, is actually the procedure by which a bully would be evicted from his family home. Also, the Criminal Code did not recognise the actions and actions that were lacking in Serbian legislation is the definition of persecution, sexual harassment, the child's prerogative to attend sex acts, the forced conclusion of marriage. The proposed law is not just women. This law, I want to point out, applies to children as well. Colakovic, a colleague today, spoke as a representative of the United Pensions Party, that the adoption of this law concerns both the elderly and the sick who suffer violence in Serbian families. So far, there have also been problems in the application of the law, because our officers and prosecutors have not been sufficiently educated and there have been different judgments, different examples in practice. These legal solutions build bridges between the interior ministry, build bridges between the prosecution, the judiciary, safe houses that exist in this country, shelters. We want to create a system to protect potential victims. Today I will not enter the reasons why previous regimes, why previous governments did not do so, and they had the opportunity, why there was no consensus in the then DOS after the change of 2000 to here, why they had no political will to propose such a legal solution and adopt. They are obliged to give their responses for inaction to Serbian citizens. Also, I'd like to point out one thing, after adopting this legal solution, we have to work in practice, which is prevention. We have a positive example in UN practice, positive examples of campaigns, "Let's raise our voice against violence", covering target groups aged five to 25 years. So we have to start on time to work on prevention. We need to talk to the boys, the girls, the men. We must include these changes in the male population, not just women. At the very end of my presentation, I want to show solidarity, and I want to invite all fellow MPs to this occasion, regardless of the political party, regardless of the political jersey and badge we wear, I want to call on us to support the adoption of this legal solution in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6269	Thank you. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic has the word, and let the MP Marjana Maras be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6270	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, welcome to the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, without diminishing the importance of other draft laws that are on the agenda today, I will nevertheless dedicate my presentation, as well as most of my colleagues, to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, because the complexity of this problem, the problems of domestic violence, requires a comprehensive, unequivocal action by all of us. The fact is, this is not a private matter, this is not an individual thing, it's not a family, it's affecting the whole community, and that's why it's necessary that we all fight this, of course, from a global approach, which is that domestic violence is actually a direct violation of fundamental human rights. The first UN document that directly treats domestic violence is the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, known as the AIDS Convention, which introduces the concept of gender-based violence. It refers to every injury committed to a woman and is the cause and effect of an unequal relationship of power that later affects the subordinate position of women, not only in private life, but also in the public sphere of life. However, the key international instrument in preventing and combating domestic violence is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, known as the Istanbul Convention, which I remind you, as the eighth country ratified in 2013 and which came into force in 2014. When we ratified the Istanbul Convention, the Republic of Serbia invested so-called reserves on certain provisions of the Convention which concerned the harmonisation of our legislation with the Convention, in particular some provisions of the Criminal Law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, and I would like to remind you that the Istanbul Convention obliges the Signatory States to incriminate forms of violence, such as psychological violence, persecution, physical violence, sexual violence and rape, forced marriage, genital mutilation of women, forced abortion, forced sterilisation, sexual harassment, but also incentives and assistance in the execution of these crimes. The aim of the bill on preventing domestic violence in the broadest sense should be to provide one long-term policy to prevent and combat this violence, by creating effective prevention measures, above all, by sanctioning the perpetrators, but also by providing support to victims of violence. A major step towards the prevention of violence is the proposed model, a model known as the Zrenjanin Model, which implies the operation of a permanent co-operation of competent institutions, in front of all the judiciarys, i.e. public prosecutors, social work centres and police. A very important newspaper in this law is the introduction of a record of violent persons, or those against whom there has been reports of domestic violence. So far, the base has only been equipped with a social work centre, and the law stipulates that there are also regional police administrations, primary public prosecutors and centres for social work and courts. I believe that this comprehensive record will contribute to a much more effective protection of victims, as it will enable competent authorities to access data necessary for decision-making and impact, even to a more successful risk assessment of direct danger to domestic violence and certainly use both for monitoring and assessment of practices to help victims. Finally, I believe it will contribute to improving the way policies are made in the areas of prevention and protection against violence. For the SPS, it's an extremely important prevention. This was also discussed by colleagues from other parliamentary groups. Prevention is something important. It must be a joint activity of all competent institutions, not only of the judiciary and police, but of centres dealing with child and social protection. Of course, the education and healthcare system must be involved and, of course, the NGO sector and different associations. When it comes to prevention, we, my colleagues spoke about it, submitted an amendment to Article 6. The proposal for a law that concerns the prevention and implies and adoption of a national strategy which, as a medium-term and planned document for a period of five years, could define both programmes and measures and entities covered by this prevention. I would also briefly refer to the amendments and additions to the Criminal Law that we are discussing today and includes certain amendments and amendments to the law and certainly the introduction of new criminal acts, such as: persecution, full of harassment, forced marriage, genital mutilation of women, which is precisely our obligation as signatories of the Istanbul Convention. The amendment of Article 194 of the applicable law opened the opportunity to submit an amendment to the first position of this member of the law. Our proposal concerns a more precise definition of psychological violence, and what the Istanbul Convention obliges us to do. Namely, in Article 33. The Istanbul Conventions accurately define the obligation of the signatories to incriminate, among other things, the psychological violence that may have been inadequately defined in Article 194 of the applicable criminal code. We believe that this is necessary, that it is necessary to separate physical and psychological violence and that this is extremely important in terms of prevention, since psychological violence in most cases of domestic violence and precedes physical violence. In line with the attitude of the state, when it comes to domestic violence, which is the attitude of zero tolerance towards domestic violence, we as a parliamentary group will support the proposals of all laws, the bill on preventing domestic violence and amending and supplementing the Criminal Law, with one review, regardless of the number of 347 amendments submitted, I believe that there are quality amendments that you can consider. I hope you will adopt ours, too, but there are certainly amendments to other parliamentary groups to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6271	The People's Messenger Marjana Maraš has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6272	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to conclude one fact that domestic violence is in line with Article 194. A criminal code, a crime, and it's a fact that has to be known to everyone, to prevent domestic violence. Under this bill, the concept of domestic violence is broader than in family law. Also, compared to family law, a circle of people who may be victims of domestic violence has been specified. I'd like to highlight examples of good practice from locals that confirm that some of your proposed legal solutions are good. It is above all that the first institutional pillar when it comes to the rest of the law is a police officer to prevent domestic violence. The Commission for the Monitoring and Implementation of Gender Equality in the Municipality of Vrbas, which was formed in 2005, and since 2006, organised within 16 days of the activation of violence against women, a round table with the theme "Family Violence", managed to gather from year to year representatives of all relevant institutions, start from the Centre for Social Labour, police stations, home to health, NGOs, national employment services, prosecutors, courts, representatives of primary and secondary education, and for a number of years in the year, we analyse the data they provide to us in the Commission for monitoring the achievement of gender equality. These data indicate that trust is increased precisely in police officers and that they are those who report violence in most cases and more and more every year. What contributes to this, it is certainly that police officers in the Vrbas municipality, and also representatives of the Centre for Social Work, have been trained and have been sensible when it comes to domestic violence. It has made their work much easier so far and that they have had an understanding of the victims of violence. For this reason, this round table has become an example of good practice when it comes to the rural strategy for zero tolerance towards violence, and I would also like to point out that doctors at the health home "Veljko Vlahović" in Vrbas have passed the training of the Autonomous Women's Centre and that they are those who can document violence. All of this has contributed to us creating zero tolerance for this bill. There are alarming facts about the duration of violence that in 29% of cases more monthly, 71% year-on-year, and on average lasts five years. The period between the first incident of abuse and reporting is on average nine years and three months. The actual co-operation of different actors regarding the prevention and prevention of domestic violence, as stated in the reasoning of the law, was not adequate. I must point out that the Vrbas Municipality signed an agreement in 2015 on co-operation at the local level of institutions that prevent domestic violence, which specify the steps and procedures of institutions they carry out when they come to the knowledge of domestic violence and violence against women. It is important to point out that a similar memorandum on the handling of the domestic violence situation was signed in 2005 and it produced significant results. The president of the municipality audited members of the coordination body, perhaps it's not interesting that there are good examples... in our country, when it comes to preventing domestic violence and before the adoption of this bill. I just want to confirm these examples that these are some of these solutions that are really good and that what turned out to be quality solutions on the ground. I cite that this coordination body to prevent the prevention of domestic violence, which was formed by the president of the municipality in 2015, is represented by representatives and police, prosecutors, home health and the Social Labour Centre. Since 2005, there has been a marriage and family counselling facility and all services are free of charge. In 2013, according to a proposal from the Minister of Resorship of the Centre for Social Labour, an internal team for protection against violence has formed, and since 2008, the Centre for Social Labour has provided services for immediate intervention for 24 hours, seven days a week. Also at the Centre for Social Work and Home Health and Police Station, employees have already received training and have become sensitised when it comes to preventing domestic violence. Within a protected apartment, there is a reserved apartment for the temporary housing of the victim of violence. As a great difficulty, the housing of victims of violence in a safe house has proved to be a reason why the accommodation on a monthly basis alone for a sacrifice of about 40,000 dinars and on that side has just shown as the most efficient economic empowerment through one-time financial assistance in order to provide accommodations at the end of the community. I would like to point out, I have submitted an amendment that is under the empowerment of a woman implies economic empowerment and I want to point out another good example in Vojvodina, where a programme for the employment of women victims of violence has been launched. This measure meant refunding gross earnings for 12 months, employers who employ women victims of violence and through this programme were employed twenty women. In the implementation of systemic resolution, the prevention of domestic violence requires the continued expansion of awareness, support and involvement of all social actors, both decision-makers and state institutions, and the civil sector, both the public, the media, and individuals, and in accordance with this and in this sense I have proposed another amendment to Article 6 to include birth equality bodies at the local level where they are formed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6273	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Your task force has wasted group time. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6274	Many respected presidents of the National Assembly, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia. Dear Presidents, tell our minister that I am pleased to see her more and more frequently in this high house, which speaks of the self-absorbed work of our minister and her cabinet, there is no doubt that the rapid steps will be taken in a well-tapped way that was followed by her predecessor, Mr Nikola Selakovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say something about preventing domestic violence and corruption. It has its foothold in the exposé of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, who presented to us the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 9 August 2016. I would like to remind you, gentlemen, that the Members of the People's Parliament, as well as the citizens of Serbia, are the exposés of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, the most transparent, the most concrete, the largest, 260 sides and the best. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: From Dusan's code and beyond. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6275	That's right, MP. Distract the MP as much as you can, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6276	Thank you, Madam President. After being distracted, I will repeat that he is the most transparent, concrete, the largest 260 sides and the best of all 73 previous exposés of the government, starting with the first exhibition by the Prime Minister of Modern Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic in 1805, to date. I would like to remind you, gentlemen, that the Members of the People's Parliament and the general public that the exposés of the Prime Minister, in an international magazine on the "Mago List", is the first time in Serbia's modern history that one of the exposés of the Prime Minister is quoted in an international magazine. On the page of the 86th Prime Minister's exposé, Mr. Alexander Vukic writes, quotes - "As for the prevention of domestic violence in the past, the number of cases reported has increased by 32.4%, which means there are more. On the contrary, we would say that there are fewer, but that means that people, especially women, are encouraged to come before the authorities. That is why we are going to pass a new law, a law on the prevention of domestic violence," finished the quote. Behold, the honourable Messengers of the people. This is how our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic and SNS work according to a system rarely seen in political culture, and this system reads -- writtenly, achieved. Here, as you can see, the Prime Minister wrote in exposé on page 86, said on 9 August 2016 in this high home of the National Assembly that this law would be passed and achieved, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Here he is today in front of you, gentlemen of the opposition and of the government, and I hope in two, three days we adopt him. Do you have any objections, gentlemen People's MPs? However, in Article 4. The law on the prevention of violence has been written that the law is also applied to co-operation in preventing domestic violence by criminal acts and is listed from one to 18. However, if we carefully analyze it, we will see that out of 18 crimes, 10 of them are from the domain of sexual violence, and only eight of them are from the area of economic violence, physical violence and psychological violence. Is it possible that, for me and you, gentlemen, the MPs, and the general public of science, might have been more likely to list crimes from the domain of economic, physical and psychological violence if we know by some studies relevant to all forms of violence that have just been from the psychological form of violence 46%, physical 22 forms, etc., sexual six and the rest? The women first felt the transition, the economic crisis and the first were out of work, which is what my distinguished colleague Marijan Risticevic was talking about, and thus also without economic independence. This also resulted in the economic failure of women and economic dependence, which was often one of the causes of domestic violence against women. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, violence against women is the ultimate remnant of human misery, primitiveism and egoism. I have one recommendation on how to reduce domestic violence, and it reads - women should read, because women are unread books, the more we read and learn more about them, and the more violence against them will disappear. It would be a recipe, and since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a programme to modernise Serbia, which means a healthy society, and it is based on a healthy family, this bill on preventing domestic violence is a contribution to the realisation of gentlemen, the modernisation of Serbia. In order to combat domestic violence in the longer term, I underline this, therefore, in the longer term, it is necessary to work to combat violence at school, which means working to prevent violence, and that is possible only by raising children and youth up to 18 years of age. The former regime's party expelled us with the help of fellow family educations, from schools, sports courts, media, streets to peers' society, thus encouraging violence in these places. We're a little out of violence, and we're bringing education back to these places. That is why it is good that Minister of Education, Mr. Sarcevic announced the return of educational function to schools, families, sports resorts, media and other educational factors. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, American educator John Dewey said, I quote: "If the state doesn't pay teachers today, it will pay 10 police officers tomorrow," a quote concluded. The government of the Republic of Serbia is deeply aware of that. Therefore, the highest percentage was assigned to teachers of all percentages in wage increases. Violence does not reduce evil. Rather, it multiplyth it. With the help of violence, you can kill a liar, but you can't kill a lie or establish the truth. With the help of violence, you can kill someone who hates, but you can't destroy hate. Returning violence against violence increases violence, bringing more black darkness. Therefore, hate and violence cannot drive away violence and hatred, but only love and discipline. Finally, when it comes to corruption, this SNS government has shown it is fighting corruption. It started from the top and seven former ministers and assistants and a large number of directors were processed for this purpose. What's very important is that criminals don't run this country anymore. Furthermore, these days in this high house, Madam Presidents and Ladies People's MPs, we have heard from some opposition MPs, some are even presidents of minor political parties, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not submitted a budget report for the first six months honoring the government of corruption. Unfortunately, I must disappoint them, she delivered it on July 17th, here it is, ladies and gentlemen, to all of us in six months. I repeat again, she delivered on 18 July, exactly, in 2016 to all the MPs – for information. Gentlemen, if you have at least a bit of human morality and a little dignity be brave, stand up tonight in front of the citizens of Serbia and apologize to us, the MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister and what is very important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is this true, gentlemen MPs? I'll see if you get up. In the end, I call on you all to vote together for these laws because at least in this way you from the opposition will contribute to the modernisation of Serbia for which this government has defined itself, defined most of our MPs in this high house, and to God and most of the citizens, I would say, too often, the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6277	Thank you. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6278	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, as always, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Member of the 106th speaker can speak only of the agenda item on which the debate is being held. I've even learned it by heart. Repetio mother studiorum est – repetition is the mother of knowledge. It seems that Mr. Atlagic took this too seriously, so he keeps saying the same thing over and over again. The chairman, I think she'll admit it, and she laughed a little bit when she was that part. So it's not that serious to her, either. As far as I can see, someone's watching this transmission and writing pluses to all MPs from the ruling coalition who's going to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6279	Injury of the Rules of Procedure to me and what have I done?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6280	Not to you, not to you, just for Atlagic, I'm just explaining now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6281	You are not a commentator of the conduct of the MPs in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6282	I'm talking about Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6283	Where I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and leave Professor Atlagic alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6284	Okay, you didn't warn him when he got off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6285	Why didn't I warn him?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6286	I thought I said, it was in the microphone, I can do it again. Should I do it again? You didn't warn him when he went off topic. Obviously we don't hear from each other, so I'm gonna have to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6287	Well, we don't hear from each other, you don't talk to me, you talk to the cameras, obviously, so we don't hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6288	In any case, I think there's someone from the ruling coalition who writes pluses while they're transferring, it looks like you're competing on who's going to hand it over to the prime minister. So Atlagic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6289	Now, since you've abused the Rules of Procedure, two minutes less of your group. You abused the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no, Professor Atlagic spoke perfectly about the subject, should have a great degree of education, be a professor at the University and understand. Not all instant culture, instant education, you know. You need to read a lot of books to understand, and since you're not interested in Article 106, but in what you're saying, two minutes less. That's right, because you're a group of MPs who constantly warns about the adherence of the Rules of Procedure. So, here you go. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6290	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. This is not the first time, for this reason I have also referred a parliamentary question to you, as presidents of the Assembly, and also to your other associates in the cabinet of the President of the Assembly, the usual practice has become that we speak, using the anglossaxisms. Therefore, we do not have the Constitution of the Prime Minister, but we have the Prime Minister. We don't have a parliament, we have a National Assembly. Therefore, as it is inappropriate for the People's Assembly's domain to be parliament, instead of the National Assembly, it is equally inappropriate to talk about the prime minister, but should be called what is called the post under the Constitution, which is the president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6291	I thank you for your instruction. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go. It is your turn, I did not call you this, and let Dusan Pavlovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6292	The previous speaker, for a wonderful miracle, decided to contradict Alexander Vukic, I showed it yesterday, because Alexander Vukic, in the light of the Law that came to us, concerning the organisation of the competent state authorities in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption, has just said that we have some problems and that they have been seen and that it is necessary to redefine the state authorities, in order to fight organised crime, corruption and terrorism more effectively, and the previous speaker said that the government had produced great results. Well, now we have to determine whether he was right about that MP or if he's right about the Prime Minister when he sends us a bill like this or an explanation. Yesterday, I promised my colleague Balshi Bozovic, since I was the subject of his criticism, although he obviously did not read the agenda well, and he does not know what laws we are discussing, that I will also talk about one law that I did not reach yesterday, it is the proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence. I see that most MPs have talked about this Law for the most part of the time, and I think there is no dispute in this room that all 250 MPs advocate that victims of violence be protected in the best possible way. I am sure the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the same intention. I'm sure so far the government and all the competent state authorities in the domain of their competences and knowledge have tried and done the best they can. We will remind ourselves that in 2005 a crime of domestic violence was brought into our Criminal Law, then the DS was in power. Has domestic violence been eradicated from 2005 to 2012, while the DS ruled? No, so it still existed. Well, we can't even say that it's the fault of the government, because from 2012 to today we still have that crime. In itself, punishment and normity cannot lead to the suppression and eradication of that part, it should work to prevent it. I pointed out yesterday that this name of the law is not adequate, because here it is not at all talking about criminal acts and wrongful means of domestic violence, but about how to organise mutual coordination and multi-resorship co-operation between state authorities in the application of the Criminal Code, Family Law and other laws that prevent domestic violence. We also have the Constitution and mention the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and Family Law and the Law on the Police and Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Social Protection, all of them have rightly edited this matter. So, you have a part in the explanation that says you're passing the law as an attempt to solve the problem that exists in Serbia and that is reflected in the lack of coordinated co-operation of authorities that are competent to prevent domestic violence and protection and provide full support for the victims. Which means, you yourself admit that the state authorities weren't able to coordinate, but it's totally absurd that you're passing the law to cover the incompetence and the unhappiness of the state authorities. So these questions are not regulated by law. It's one big absurd thing to pass a law that will try to get the state authorities to do their job. It's really a very strange thing to put into account. Furthermore, I must point out that amendments to the Criminal Law and Family Law always achieve better protection of the family. I ask one question, in article 3, you mention the set of measures, what is this set of measures? That's contrary to the principle of legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6293	MPs, disrupt the order and session. Please wait for Srdjan Nogo to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6294	If only this could be excluded from my time. So in article 3, you say -- out of the set of measures that reveal whether it threatens the immediate danger of domestic violence and the expensive measures being taken. What is this set of measures? This is contrary to the principle of legality. The chairman himself of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights said that the law must be more precise, i.e. that there must be clearer mechanisms for it to be applied. This broad formulation is absolutely non-applicable, in practice this cannot be implemented or opened up to the possibility of abuse. I've already told the Justice Academy what I've got, but I can see we've all been turning around a whole lot for one more subject, the subject of the record. I think there's a serious problem here about these records, as soon as there's no unique methodology for making records and that in practice this will be impossible, but secondly, I think the Constitutional Court is going to break this law, because it's against the Constitution to keep records. We're talking about people from a formal legal point of view who are innocent. There is no least part of the doubt that they are perpetrators, or that they are threatening to commit a crime, which is very controversial for the police to keep records of such people. The second is whether they have already entered the criminal proceedings, that is, whether the case is closed by a judgment of the court, by a verdict. But these are formally-legally innocent persons, so it's very, very controversial. To refer to all the four laws that you have proposed, I must also call on the presidents of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers and the Belgrade Bar of Lawyers, who are silent today, to be silent yesterday, and I expect that in the coming days these laws will be announced and criticised. They obviously either don't do their job either, or they're on some low-resist course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6295	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6296	Thank you. You just said, President, that Srdjan Nogo and I have agreed to cause replicas. Srjan Nogo and I can't agree on anything, so don't worry about it at all, believe me. I find it particularly interesting when we talk about domestic violence, it's total nonsense and I don't want to pay attention to it, in 2005, the DS wasn't in control, it's often the DS's fault that there are many of you, but good. When we talk about victims of domestic violence, the Dvori show special anxiety, when we talk about protecting against domestic violence, first of all, when it comes to women, as some special, as I would say, concern that they do not exaggerate in the protection of women from violence. I think in that sense, not only do we differ, but I don't see at all the reason, when we talk about such a sensitive subject, that it is constantly being brought into doubt by the intentions of this law, which is not complete, the bill, the pardon, which is not complete and we will correct it with amendments, but obviously there are policies in this hall that don't see it as a problem at all. We talked about statistics, we talked about how women are in Serbia today, and I think it's very important that the Dvora Movement understands how burning our society's problem is and not to worry that women will somehow be overprotected. It is never too much protection when women are in Serbia and I think it is very important for them to be you, or you to be the ones to support this law and any amendments that follow it. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6297	Mr. Obradich, you have no right to a replica. Read the fine Rules of Procedure or take a course from colleagues to you. So the right to the replica has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. As far as I know, the authorized representative is Mr. Srdian Nogo. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: You do not know well. I know perfectly. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Mr Nogo is not an authorised representative, but a deputy president of the parliamentary group. () Vice President? Then why did you empower him? (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: I did not authorise him, he is the deputy president of the parliamentary group. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6298	Mr. Chairman, thank you for understanding. It's important that we clarify this detail. Mr. Balsa Bozovic has, in a very wrong way, completely misread the position of Dvora in connection with this law on preventing domestic violence. There is no normal man, and once again, there is no normal man in Serbia who can support any violence, especially domestic violence. So, a normal man who does something like that or supports it doesn't have one. But if you were to pass one law... After all, Mr Bozovic, why did DS, when she was so smart, not solve the problem of domestic violence during her reign? Or why isn't the SNS, now that she's so smart, in the past five years, solved the problem of domestic violence? And you are neglecting one serious possibility of abuse brought by this law – the possibility that the police, social labour centres and other institutions of this country begin to interfere with our family relations, enter our privacy and arbitration in our family conflicts, disputes and current life problems. Then we'll get into a situation where, say, when a husband and wife and a woman argue for a certain reason report their husband to violence, a cop comes in to determine if that violence was there, whether that violence will be, and then send that husband to prison for eight hours, for 48 hours, for eight days. Why would that cop do that? Well, so he doesn't have a problem later because if he doesn't, he'll be accused of being guilty if that violence comes later. What's coming out of it? That every call, for every single family argument, every neighbor's application will be treated by sending a man into custody. And in the end, someone might have a desire just to take away their husband's property, take his stuff and report him for violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6299	Time, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6300	So the abuses of this law are huge. The possibility of abuse is enormous, that's what the Dvori are talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6301	Here you go, Mr. Bozovic, and we're done with these replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6302	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, the thing is, there is a fundamental misunderstanding of what the intensity of my colleagues in the DS is, who have proposed in the previous two convocations laws that the ruling majority did not even want to put on the agenda. It's laws about taking arms away from domestics, it's a law on the distance of violent men for two weeks. Now you're saying it's a private matter. Violence can't be some family's private business. So we can't act like it's something about someone out there right now and say, for example, here's a little bit of what we talked about, most of the time, loud music from the neighborhood is reported more often than violence. It's part of a culture we have to change. These are some values in our society that we need to change. We cannot view violence as a personal matter of a family or a private matter of a married couple. That's not it. It's just not an idea. The idea is to stop violence, and we've done a lot of things in the past. In 2005, I repeat, the DS was not in power, and in the meantime we proposed laws in these five years that did not come upon the necessary support of the ruling majority to come to the agenda and be adopted. We could have saved some lives by putting the laws and Dusan Milisavljević and Dragan Sutanovac and Aleksandra Jerkov on the agenda and adopting them, okay, better before later, but I want to tell you that this is the thing that makes the fundamental difference between DS policy and Dveri policy, which this problem absolutely doesn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6303	The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6304	Just because someone's making a deal with each other doesn't mean they have to mix the SNS into it, yet to say - you've had five years and you haven't solved anything. This is an age-old problem here in Serbia, with the fact that, of course, I can't agree with the fact that it's our culture that we have family violence. I pray that people do not insult Serbian society in such a way, because it is not a culture of the Serbian people, after all, we are Orthodox people, in accordance with Orthodox ethics, it is absolutely something that is opposed. Do not honor such things to our people. Just because there are recipients, that means that we want to eliminate them specifically in terms of this law and we're doing something concrete. I'm stressing that again. This is the only government that has done something concrete. She passed some legal provisions, incriminating it into criminal law. No one has done it so far, but absolutely no one, but it was all about the demagogue story of allegedly detecting the problem of domestic violence. Yeah, well, you noticed the problem, and what did you do? Nothing. You were just spending the money that was coming from the European funds and that money was disappearing somewhere and no one here was doing anything. This is the first government to do something concrete, and we guarantee you that we will suppress domestic violence to the greatest extent possible. It's never absolutely possible to contain everything, but we're going to contain it as much as possible because we want to have one normal society and we want such primitives to be eliminated from our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6305	We're moving on. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6306	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although we are in principle in favour of attempting to criminally sanction certain actions in the economy, and here above all I am referring to the adoption and giving of bribes, the abuse of trust, embezzlement and fraud in the pursuit of economic activity, which should certainly be brought into criminal law, and yet I believe that the Government has once again shown not only the indifference and ignorance of basic legal concepts, but also its intention to continue with the abuse of justice for daily policy purposes. Here's what this is all about. Although all actions that are essentially against the public order would already be incriminated by the introduction of new acts, the government continues to insist that the Criminal Code, although modified, retains the act of abuse of the responsible person's position. This tells us that the government is not interested in the fact that the orderly world has been amazed for years by this work, otherwise inherited from the communist era, which was then used for political reckonings, but at least it made sense. The director who is in communism, where factories are not in private, but in social property, is essentially a served person, and any excessive profit, in accordance with the social system at the time, for the illegal property benefit can be criminally responsible for the operation itself and the consequences. That's why any deviation from the Director's borders, I mean, official duties and can be sanctioned, but only in that social system, because only then did it make sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if the Government is aware that social property is no longer available and that for the market, this act is extremely inaccurate, broadly and therefore unacceptable, and particularly not in accordance with the right to property in Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If the responsible person, the director of a company, any embezzlement, receive or bribe someone or abuse trust, will be prosecuted. Then what does this work do? Practice has shown how negatively this work has affected both legal security and legal certainty. This work came from the part of abuse of the official position and its simple copying and replacing the "officer" for the "responsible person". Such an inaccurate and broadly defined act, which did not require intent, led the prosecutions to use this member instead of concrete members involved in embezzlement, bribery, fraud and misuse of trust. If there are more concrete forms of obtaining illegal property benefit, the Criminal Code would have to define them specifically. For the end, I would also refer to the new work – the conclusion of a restrictive agreement. Not every restrictive agreement can be the object of a criminal offence, but only one in which participants have joined with the intention of acting against the law. It is entirely inappropriate for the administrative procedure before the Competition Protection Commission, which determines whether the agreement is restrictive and where fines are huge, to have a criminal character. Which of these two procedures has primate? In what respect is the administrative dispute over the Commission's decision to protect competition and criminal proceedings? Is the criminal proceedings initiated only after a legal remedy has been sent to resolve the commission and the administrative dispute ends before the administrative court? I don't know if the government is aware of how complicated competition relations are and how dangerous it is to allow any restrictive agreement to be the act of committing a crime. The fact is that a small number of penalties imposed for monopoly and cartel action speak of the failure of the commission and the law that protects competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6307	The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6308	I thank the chairman. Serbia's Dvora movement welcomes the fact that the Serbian government is dealing with family and violence is indeed one of the biggest problems. For 18 years now, we have been engaged in promoting family values and we are proposing a family model of society and I am very pleased that all the more courageous political parties are discussing this topic and accepting our suggestions, but the solutions that are offered are not good. We agree that violence must have zero tolerance but in order to simply encourage women, to report violence, we must create a good environment for them. A woman has a chance to be in the safe house for a month, and we've been protecting her for two months by keeping the bully away, but what happens after that? I'm so sorry we could hear the insult of women who weren't educated here. They do not suffer violence because they are uneducated but because they are wise, for they have estimated that no one will permanently protect them because the bully will come back and shine. So we have to create a real environment that involves its economic independence, the application of the law, that even if we apply existing laws. The media has a very big role to play here. Why don't we show the photos of the thugs and publish information about what the judiciary has done, how these thugs are punished, not raising their circulation by putting mutilated women on the front page. On the spot, a proper assessment of priority. We're currently at the top of the country having a champion in poor judgments and Davery's gonna try to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6309	Thank you. You've got more than a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6310	Here's what one of the members of this law says. The latest versions mention the introduction of another absolutely irregular category such as economic violence. It will be defined as a form of psychological violence that is a denial, by controlling access to money, or an unequal inaccessibility with common means. What does that mean? Who does this apply to? Does the promoter prescribe that family members share their incomes? Will children have the right to decide on the distribution of family funds and if their parents don't give it to them and therefore report them as family abusers? What's the problem here, Madam Minister? The problem is the definition of violence. Mr. Bozovic doesn't understand, one is a bully, one is a proven bully, and the other is suspected of violence that makes you throw someone out of your own apartment. It's enough for someone to report him to a neighbor, a woman, anyone, on the basis of that suspicion, you can simply arrest someone, arrest him, take away his property, take away his child. Where is the limit to the abuse of such a new legal institute that you are introducing here? Where's the limit of your involvement in family and private matters? It's a theme that the Davers are setting here, and of course we're all about limiting any violence, punishing violent people, not allowing violence against anyone, not just women, older people, children, anyone. So the point is, don't let the law leave us the possibility of abuse of a legal institute, of overexpansive definition of violence, and then someone can abuse it for various accounts with those who don't like it. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6311	On what grounds? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I am mentioned. Please, what you've been up to... (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6312	Mr. Arsic, you can't tell me that I've made a deal with someone on the basis of you giving me a replica or not. All the conditions for the replica are met. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Which member? ) I advertise Article 104, you know very well which member, Mr Martinović, and if you do not know, read the Rules of Procedure, you have been a Member for so long. So, you can't do it on the basis of your suspicions that we have a deal. We didn't agree because we can't agree on anything between Mr. Obradovic and I. If he's attacking me because I don't understand something, then it's time for you to give me the right to the line. And I was going to say that this amendment that we have submitted is the amendment that reads to be the position of Article 5 of Article 194. Leave the criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6313	You're just entering the line, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6314	All right, give me the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6315	You can't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6316	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6317	Now let me explain. First, the fact that your colleague Martinovic asked you to make a statement on the basis of which you are advertising the Rules of Procedure has been regulated by Article 103, which means that you must also report a member who you consider to have been injured. However, Article 104 puts it this way - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group on behalf of the repatriation group has the president of a parliamentary group or authorized, there is, of course, a member who regulates it. I'm reading this for the citizens, not for you, you know that very well. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. So, the chairman determines whether there was an offensive statement by a fellow MP or if someone was misread. So, I couldn't possibly break that member, and I have experience that you can get two minutes, make a deal with many. Right to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6318	I'm referring to the violation of article 107, Mr. Arsic. Of course, if there's an agreement, that's what all Serbian citizens who follow this transmission see, I'm going to call you a little bit, so you can call me after we have no more time, and we've got a few MPs. To get time, a little bit of one will call each other, a little bit of the other of this first one, and it's a political game that's very clear. Of course they can make a deal. One of them beat his wife on election night. And the other one has a president who, therefore, puts money in a woman's chest in March 2012 at the Gerdap Hotel. [[Bosko Obradovic, from the place: This is a replica.]] Of course, such two can agree because both are fundamentally against the concept of preventing domestic violence and violence against women. One committed violence, directly, physically, and the other has a president who humiliated the woman, who from the naked female body, he and his party colleagues ate ham, cheese, grapes and watermelons, and today he showed you in photographs Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6319	According to the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6320	Article 108 was injured for the simple reason that Mr. Martinovic threw to you whether to give me a replica or not and on this basis you did not take care of the order at the session. You cannot allow Mr. Martinovic to abuse the Rules of Procedure and talk nonsense, because such nonsense affects, Mr. Arsic, the fact that because of such lies and the untrue wife of Dragan Sutanovec, the wife, attacked a man on the street, struck him with her fist in the back. And that case was reported to the police. Because it never occurred to anyone that he was abused for political purposes by such a scenic act. This is the kind of thing that Mr. Martinovic says that happens every day and happens to a woman, the wife of the president of the Democratic Party. And you allow this way to put someone's family in danger, that's a shame, Mr. Arsic. This is a dictionary that leads to both domestic and street violence. Who made the deal? Seselj's play or Wolf's errand boy? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6321	Mr. Bozovicu, I know very well Mr. Martinovic, he never wanted any violence, nor the Ukrainian scenario that was supposed to happen here in Serbia, so we held elections, proved that there was nothing. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6322	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 27. Here, Mr. Bozovic, tell me, is this woman to whom your party president puts money in her chest, is that someone's mother? Is that someone's wife? Tell me, Mr. Bozovic, is someone's mother, is someone's wife a naked woman lying on the table while the officials of the Democratic Party are around her, and she has been cut with prosciutto, bananas, watermelons, grapes and pineapples? Tell me, Mr. Bozovic, is this violence against women, that naked woman lies, and that her legs are covered with prosciutto, around her pears, grapes, watermelons? Tell me, is this woman someone's mother, someone's wife? And then you find yourself, the president of the party Dragan Sutanovac who did these things, giving lessons in respecting women in Serbia. You talk about respecting any rights, you who treated women as the worst possible slaves? This is not how Turks treated Serbs for 500 years. You should be ashamed of yourself and your president. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Pov6reda Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6323	In accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a five-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to injure the Rules of Procedure after a break. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: How do I not have the right to the Rules of Procedure? You don't. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6325	Are you sure you shouldn't call the Rules of Procedure first, since the Rules of Procedure have priority, you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6326	Mrs. Stamenkovic, so you're giving up your rights to the discussion. That's how I understood. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic. ) Mr. Martinovic, do you want a word or have you given up? Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6327	The Honorable Chairman, dear Madam Minister, whom we really welcome as a new and fresh face on our political scene, however, we cannot agree with your legal proposals. Here's what you say in one place in the Bill of Prevention of Family Violence. You say the minister in charge of family protection affairs, along with other ministers, will agree to adopt a rule of co-operation that is closer to regulating mutual rights. Madam Minister, the government of the Republic of Serbia has no minister in charge of family protection, and this is a tragedy for the government of the Republic of Serbia. We talked a lot about the importance of setting up, forming a family care ministry, and if this is your wish to get to that ministry one day, it's a big and important thing, but if your idea is now to form some phantom demographic advice where you're going to put Alexander Vukic in charge of that amazing idea by Slavica Djukic Dejanović, then we'll go the way we did with the Biroom for Security Service Coordination.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6328	Mr. Radovic, I'm asking you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6329	I think I'm absolutely on the subject, Mr. Chairman. What's the problem here? The problem is, therefore, that all of us here agree that domestic violence must be stopped and not at all in society, but we disagree on how to do it. You're not even talking about the essentials here, the prevention of violence in our society. Did anyone here today say what's wrong with our families today? Alcoholism, drugs, unemployment, violence advertised on the media. Look at the reality shows that you support. Look at the violence that's taking place in reality shows. What, gentlemen of the Progressives, do you not forbid a reality show, so you're going to reduce the violence in this society? Why don't you influence there's less violence on our media, so you'll reduce the violence in our society? How many families today are burdened with overindulgence, the kidnapping of a family home by private contractors, bank dericocies? Has anyone mentioned these problems that our families face, and can this be the source of various frustrations, family quarrels, and perhaps the root of some domestic violence? You want this by imposing, by harmonising with the EU, by harmonising, by harmonising with some Istanbul declaration by prescribing foreign laws that you have artificially solved something that you should have solved by inter-resorship with various ministries, which you have already had under existing laws. Why haven't you solved this problem for five years? What we're pointing at here, you're not going to solve it this way. You'll create new problems, make use of them. Let me give you a specific example. My wife works at the welfare center, as a pedagogical social worker. She will be faced with this situation that she is called by a police officer to whom someone has reported some potential possibility of domestic violence. What's she gonna do? She will, of course, bring an emergency measure and send a potential bully into custody. Why? To take off his responsibility. She won't be responsible for anything else. She doesn't care what happened. A police officer doesn't care what happened. They'll prevent arrests, send people into custody, because someone said there's a possibility of violence. Wait, you're a lawyer, I guess you know what the charge is, what the verdict is, what the violence is proven, what the violence is, what the violence is, what the violence which is, in any other way, is really a proven crime, and what the charge of violence, which is unproven, which may not exist, which may be someone's abuse, which someone might be using to set up something, to use, to defaminate someone, to set someone up a trial. So, again, we have that situation where it's brilliantly defined in this second law that's supposed to be applied here since 2018, and you're now passing it by emergency procedure. Now, that's the political futuristism of the SNS. Here, it's just that it's not, here's to two, two and a half years to live better, and then you pass the law by emergency procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6330	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6331	... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication It's a picture of your SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6332	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6333	I thank the chairman. Dear guests, members of the Republic government, colleagues and fellow MPs, as far as I have heard during the previous debate almost no one has the dilemma that the need for this law is unquestionable. We only have a few dilemmas, or attempts to complete it and improve it through additional amendments as we believe, at least we in LSV can only round up the phase and after the emergency speaking phase. Unfortunately for me, there is also a colleague who I admit did not understand the essence of this law, and on several occasions they tried to relativize this whole problem, setting it on the basis of potential abuse by women, which I think is inadmissible to place in this treatment on the agenda, and even in the context of some justification here in the National Assembly, especially when we are discussing such a legal initiative. It is in this sense that there is in the very act, in the chronology itself, as this bill provides for, not eight hours in detention and not 48 hours in prison, but it is all actions towards potentially different or detention of a bully or a potential bully, if he violates these said emergency measures. So, as far as I understand it, I believe that, eight hours is actually going on, the evaluation of the competent specialised officer who is at the headquarters of the police administration and who has one very substantial questionnaire, among other things, and he's doing other evaluations in coordination with other resolution services, in order to even assess whether he's going to give emergency orders, away from the apartment, or the family environment, or possibly banning the victims. What concerns us is what happens in situations where an emergency measure is made, in particular the measure of distance from the apartment for 48 hours, or 40 hours, since this eight-hour detention time will certainly be taken into account when the competent police officer conducts an evaluation before giving an emergency measure, what happens after that to the bully? We have not seen the answer to this question in this bill and we consider it crucial that this whole preventive process would make sense. I've already said that I've been in communication with the people on the ground who will be in charge of implementing these measures tomorrow, I've been able to detect their concerns right from the moment they say the measure of distance from the apartment, when we don't know where a potential bully or bully will stay, where they'll find him if he doesn't answer himself, as the law provides, after the 48-hour measure expires, where will they know they're looking for him? If the partial model of the Austrian law was to be used here, it was not to round up, so for example, predicts that it is known exactly where to stay at another address a potential bully or possibly to provide him with, which I know means extra costs, accommodation where he can be safe in terms of tracking what he's doing. Like I said, he can absolutely be angry and angry about saying he's supposed to go to the bar, get drunk, jump through the door or the window and kill the victim. Intermera's not here. What's also questionable for us is not predicting the victim's notification of measures, so she can't even know when a bully tries to break the measure or violate it to report that he's in violation. What I would also like to hear in response to the minister is how this training is foreseen, since the law is planned to be implemented, or to take effect in many months from today, from June 1st of the following year, which we think is too late, and there is a sign that it will be one-day training. I'd like to hear if it's true and I'd be glad if it wasn't true, but we can't see since the law doesn't prescribe a rule. What's that training gonna look like, who's gonna be in charge? We could only conclude that the most important thing here is the certification of people who will undergo training, not what that training will look like. What is also debateable for LSV and we will try to intervene here with the amendment is that the advice which is intended to be established as a government body, this member predicts that it can include representatives of civil society organisations as needed. We believe that this council must have at least one member of a representative association, or civil society organisation, in its composition, precisely because I assume that this council will be a political body, as described in its composition. We also consider it necessary for this external member who is not a member of the Government, who does not work in the authorities of the state administration, to be part of this council as a corrective factor and as someone who is daily, perhaps more often lucky with victims of violence or with the information he has collected so far, and the competent authorities are not. What is also problematic for us, we will also try to ask you to consider this amendment and to adopt it as a proposing, is Article 35, i.e. the abolition of the practically criminal part of the violation of the protection measures against domestic violence under Family Law, and now bringing it down to a violation within article 35, equal to the violation of the emergency measures imposed. We feel that a crime should be committed as it has been so far, and under the family law to remain in force, it is not a waste to have this crime. It won't be any harder for anyone, but it might be easier for someone. Of course, what was a dilemma yesterday when I was saying, I didn't get an answer, I tried twice to get a concrete answer from the minister and I'm asking you to answer me. On the basis of which and by which criteria you have introduced a new position on the establishment of a new criminal act for public approval, namely denial of the existence of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, you have made a selection in relation to which courts, or whose judgments you will take into account in this criminal act, and which you will not. Because there is an international war crimes court missing here in the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6334	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6335	Eight minutes. Seven minutes and 57 seconds. I thank you for getting my word after 17 times looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. To return to the topic of the agenda, which is very important, above all, obviously more significant to the opposition than to the ruling majority. There is no person among us who has not attended at least once in a life conversation in which a sentence has been spoken that a woman is guilty of being beaten, that she is guilty because she has suffered, because she has not left him, because she has waited so long to report him to the authorities, that she must have caused domestic violence herself, that she knew that he is such or that it is not our thing and that we will not interfere, as representatives of Dvery say, in a family matter. There is no person who has not heard it in their environment for once in his life, and on the other hand it is statistics that confirms it and does not speak well of us. Every other woman in Serbia suffers violence, each third suffers physical violence, each week in Serbia one woman is killed in domestic violence. It's statistics. Dear MPs, in two-thirds of the cases when a woman was killed in domestic violence, in two-thirds of these cases, the whole environment knew that her husband was a bully, to suffer violence, to fight her, and we never built a system of prevention that would not allow a fatal outcome or any subsequent attempt at domestic violence, and that's our task as MPs today. I don't think all MPs have taken part in solving this problem. Every tenth high school kid thinks it's justified to beat a woman. Two-thirds of high school students believe that violence against LGBT is justified. It's not just about the expansion of family violence. It's about the expansion of violence at all. It is the people who have proposed laws to address domestic violence, at least to a certain extent, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, the current DS president, has proposed that in a number of calls those who have legal weapons be taken away from them when they are registered as domestic offenders. And just as his wife suffered violence on the street, brutally struck from behind and also violence in another sense was happening verbally towards other DS presidents, Bojan Pajtic too, and those presidents before them. In the political struggles and in these topics, it was their wives who suffered violence from the eloquent eloquents of political opposition that we had the opportunity to hear today. And that hate dictionary also contributes to violence and contributes to the lack of understanding of the problem of domestic violence. As often as representatives of the ruling majority wear shirts today – to exclude violence, we have experienced more frequently from them that violence is involved both in debates and in dialogue and debates, and in the case of these problems that Serbia is facing today. I thank Dragan Sutanovac once again for proposing the Law on the Abuse of Weapons in the Family, although they are scrambling at that co-worker of the Minister of Justice, which I think is the ultimate disrespect of parliament and I thank Dusan Milisavljevic, who proposed that the violencers get away from the household for two weeks, and I think it also contributed to today's discussion in this way. If their proposals had been adopted earlier, they might have saved someone's lives. This way, rather than passing the law later, at least as a first step and we will correct it with amendments, and we will continue to discuss how to reach that level of protection so that indeed no woman in Serbia is suffering violence anymore. All women today work in Serbia, but they don't often get paid for what they do. When they're employed formally they do minimum two jobs. When they do the job for which they get paid, at the same job, at the same job, they get less pay than men, and that's unfair, and we also have to make it right. I also thank Aleksandra Jerkov, who managed to use her initiative, which has been a crime for many years -- baby theft is now found in the Serbian Criminal Code. What our intensity is, with the amendment, to make this crime not go out of date and we're going to try to change it. Indeed these are things that fundamentally change our society, change our consciousness in our society, the need to discuss such important things and the activity of these MPs and all others and the Women's Parliamentary Network and many of us here today have come to a solution that is not perfect and we will discuss it in particular, but I think we will find a way to solve those burning problems. What is happening today in Serbia is not the most beautiful picture of us as a society. For this reason, I think it is very important that we do not turn our heads when it comes to domestic violence in our immediate environment, that citizens be the ones to report it, even if they say it is none of their business. Violence in the family is violence in society, and this concerns every citizen of this country, and that is the fundamental difference between DS and SNS, because DS wants to build a society of citizens, not a slave society, because today women in Serbia are, in most cases, slaves and not citizens. They can't leave because they don't have their own property. They can't leave because they can't raise a loan. They are not economically independent and for this reason I believe that we must work to improve above all their position in society. I end up in the last sentence, and I'm glad we had the chance to debate and discuss this matter with the Minister today. I feel guilty that we witnessed the violence of the ruling majority even today when it comes to family violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6336	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6337	Thank you. Here we have now listened to an incredible demagogy and now just watch out for that question – how many lives would be saved if by any chance some law had been passed that they had proposed? How many lives would have been saved if you had passed such a law in 2008 and how many lives might have been saved if you hadn't, now that you're suddenly worried about women, workers, if you hadn't passed those privatisation laws where you'd thrown your entire families out on the street? So this is the worst demagogue we've ever heard. This is the only government that has done something concrete. We have just heard from one MP here, he comes from the premise that everyone in Serbia seems ready to abuse something and then go with the story – so someone will abuse a member of the law. By that logic let's not incriminate the crime - rape because maybe some lady will falsely report someone. What does that look like? What logic is that? Here we keep going from everyone in this society being a fraud, so we're going to falsely report someone, and then, by that logic, we don't incriminate anything. That doesn't make any sense. False reporting is a felony. The investigation will also determine if someone falsely reports it will. So it's incomprehensible that someone can think this way. It's a little wider, I admit, in the member himself, especially about persecution, it's defined, and there can really be abuse, but I'm sorry, it's better to prevent it than treat it, even if there's a false application it'll answer. Let's not start with everyone in this society being so and prone to false reporting and setting someone up. That might be more of an auto projection of those who object to it. I don't want to believe that this society is a violent society, and someone keeps trying to point out that we're all violent here, I don't want to accept it. The Serbian people and all of us are not violent, and there are recipients in every society, so there is one with us. You know, that's when the wheat is separated from the weeds. What weeds are, these are the members of the law we want to eliminate in some way, remove from our society, go to deserved punishment and serve. Therefore, the Honorable Chairman, since I have little time left, I have to thank everyone for having a rather constructive discussion, except for some MPs, obviously nervous about bringing in some bankruptcy-related crimes, but that's already their problem. I want to express my satisfaction because we have finally started to talk about this openly and because this is not demagogy. I can't stand it when someone demagogue approaches this subject just to make political points. That's the only reason some people did it. Millions have been spent in various pointless campaigns against domestic violence, and there has never been more violence. What's the effect of that? Not at all. Now I ask the state to finally take matters into its own hands and punish every bully and to punish anyone who beats a woman, beats children, punish them. In doing so, of course, I am not a supporter of the demagogy, as far as children are concerned – well, I cannot have a parent look at the child, because it is not good. But, of course, since there are various, frankly, crazy people in our society who beat up children, they certainly need to be sanctioned. I would also like to ask the honourable members of the Department of Justice, the Minister, and the State Secretary, to consider how to regulate domestic and male violence. We have a serious problem, there are a lot of prosecutors who are facing it, where men come in without a trace, and then they beg to withdraw their application against women, because they're ashamed to report the violence that exists, because here's an offensive rule that you're a coward if you report a woman to be harassed by a woman, and that exists. It exists, unfortunately, and we also have to face it, because, of course, violence is not only physical, but also psychological, and we also have to prevent it. Once again, I'm going to express great pleasure, few who have mentioned the Law of Organized Crime here, and I'm just asking the state to take matters into its own hands. The people who systematically robbed this society now have new crimes and can work, have higher powers and greater authority and can finally prevent all those who have imagined that the state is their front and that they can rob this system as it comes to mind. I would ask you to do a lot more work to reform the Criminal Law, because some crimes are obsolete, some have to adapt to some modern currents, technology is progressing, and I ask you to come with new amendments and additions, first of all, supplements, because the changes may be possible in criminal policy, but first of all, to supplement some of the new crimes that exist in the world. Therefore, I look forward to finally having people who are doing something concrete in this country and that someone will specifically go to prevent both corruption and organised crime, and certainly, first of all, this domestic violence, which has affected society in the worst possible way. I believe that we will achieve far, far better results than we have so far through various demagogue campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6338	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Minister, the chairman, today we attended what we probably couldn't hope for in our wildest dreams, and all of this is due to our unifying debate on something that shouldn't have been united today in the debate. I will continue to stick to the subject, regardless of the situation that happened today in the Assembly, and I will ask the Minister or representatives of the Ministry to, if they have strength and will, since I have not noticed that they have had it in the last few hours, yet answer some questions asked, because we have come here and it is our obligation to control the work of the ministry. Among other things, we control today and what laws have come before us. Once again, I will look back at the fact that we have not received the necessary information based on which certain members of the law are written. We didn't even get that in the opening statement, we didn't even get it during this debate. At one point, the Minister mentioned that we would receive these information and that you would provide them in good time. There was probably no room during today. I hope you'll deliver them to us after all. All the data I personally used, and I believe the other MPs used it, unfortunately, come exclusively from NGOs. Not to be true, what I didn't get in the opening statement to say, and I think it's important, I also welcome the decision to make such a change in the bill that the act of rape, that is, the promise of an powerless person, is equal to the act of rape. We think it's very important and it's good that this law is done. I didn't get an answer as to what it meant for the victim to take a breath. Just before I asked you, I didn't get that as an answer. The most common causes of domestic violence, as much as I have the data, are situations from married certain atmospheres in which spouses are under the fact of alcohol or psychoactive substances. Well, does that break actually mean that they can come back or repeat their crime, so to speak, when the fact of alcohol or psychoactive substances actually ceases? I've had it that way. I don't know what that really means, so I'd like you to explain it anyway. I also want to know why the social work centres don't have the necessary training. Why are they left out? If all the other state authorities have, why do social work centres, for example, not have? As far as erasing the data, since you mentioned it, you said that on the basis of the credentials, you decided to delete these data. My data-wipe finding was precisely on the information I received on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, where the Secretary of State, who had just left, and who gave that information that we couldn't delete the data, or that we agreed to delete the data just because, if it didn't happen, we'd have to change a number of other laws and that it's complicated at this point. That's why my reaction was that our role here in the National Assembly was to change existing laws so that they would be better. Feel free to take a look at the tape from the session, and you'll see what kind of answer I got there. Once again, I will look back at the financial resources needed to make one, or enter into force of one law and another. It's completely incomprehensible to me that such an important law as to prevent domestic violence...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6340	You're bringing an end to your colleague. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6341	... there is no need for additional financial resources. Can I have another sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6342	If there's only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6343	We've been taken so long, I really think it would be correct to get one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6344	Here, you just said the line. I would refer to the work of a financial forensic scientist. You said that Mrs Miroslava Milenovic was involved in the work, i.e. writing this law. I'm sorry her proposals didn't go into this law. As far as I got the information, and I got it from her personally, her proposals weren't adopted. I remind you, Miroslav Milenovic is the first forensic scientist in Serbia. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6346	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to today's debate and, above all, I must thank the MPs both the ruling coalition and the opposition, who have participated very constructively. What I can say is that, given the amendments that I had the opportunity to see, we will certainly try to improve the bill we discussed today through certain amendments. A lot has been set up today, so I will try to sum up the answers to most of the questions and start from the answers that I remained in debt to the MP yesterday, and it was about how long the laws that we are discussing today were being prepared, since they are being adopted by an urgent procedure. What matters is, that's what I wanted to say in the morning, but the MP wasn't present in the afternoon debate, so I left for the end, so he wouldn't be denied for the answer. All the laws we are discussing today have been prepared for several months, and amendments and additions to the Criminal Code have been prepared for as long as two years. What's important is that the working group started working in 2015 and more than 15 members participated in it, and I certainly must point out the great importance of the professors. Zoran Stojanović and Prof. Milan Škulić and I believe that just about the biggest experts in criminal law, so the remarks you pointed out on the writing norm you just gave to the professors that I mentioned. What is important is that this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law, and the longest done, since we had an obligation to deliver the bill to the European Commission for opinion. The delivery of the response took longer, and that is why we are only today in the congregation with this proposal. When it comes to the law on confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence, the work began in January 2015. The law on the organisation of the authority of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption in June 2015 and the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the work of the working group began in January 2016. After the work of the working groups, all draft laws were published on the Justice Ministry site, so that public debates lasted months and everyone could be involved in the work, to deliver their suggestions and opinions and a large part of these suggestions, the Ministry of Justice adopted during the submission of the proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that today we have extremely important laws that we are discussing and, above all, one law that introduces a full newspaper into our legal system and regulates an area that has not been regulated so far. Although you adopted the National Strategy in 2011 to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in the family, where the strategic goal at point 6 was just to talk about the obligation to pass laws that would regulate this area, it was not done and only this government managed to come up with a proposal to regulate this area. I believe that, given that the law is completely new, it is certainly not perfect, but I think that it should be given a chance to apply it and that, if we show our shortcomings, we will intervene in good time to fully implement the effects we expect from it. What is important is that this law, and the very name says so, has primarily a preventive function, and therefore I am sorry that some MPs have attempted to in some way and to deceive the citizens by saying about the detention, confiscation of property, since no law on preventing domestic violence speaks of the detention of the person, nor the confiscation of property, is the newspaper introducing emergency measures, the remoteness of the bully from the apartment and the ban on accessing the victim. Which certainly cannot be equated with the detention and precisely the essence of this law is that it reacts in some way before the criminal proceedings or the litigation of a domestic violence suit, in order to provide first and foremost support for the victim and encouraged her to continue the proceedings in order not to withdraw. That's what you might have asked - what does it mean to breathe the victim? Just to get enough time to stand alone and in some way encourages him to go into further proceedings, whether it is a criminal procedure or a lawsuit procedure in a domestic litigation procedure. Do we have a minister of family protection or not? You must read the Ministry Act and you will see that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is responsible for this area and the Minister for Family Protection is also mentioned in the Family Law, and the provision is also mentioned in the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, so that the Ministry of Justice has no intention of introducing a new ministry, since we have a minister in charge of this issue. Another thing, where you've probably tried the same in a diabolical way to show that we have unconstitutional provisions regarding the records, I must point out that it's not about the records of whether or not it's a bully. These are records of procedures, first and foremost the police, and then the public prosecutors and the basic courts, i.e. the records of the decisions they make. Here we also have a record of the urgent measures, the protection measures and the records of the protection measures provided for and the Family Law, where it was envisaged that only the guardianship body should be kept for the time being, and the way in which the records are kept to regulate the sublegal act. Just in light of the data protection and what the trustee is asking of us that the law must regulate which data can be recorded, this law accurately specifies which records are kept by police administrations, primary courts, public prosecutors and central records for which the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible. During the duration of these records, I must again point out that the draft law provided for them to have a lasting character, but given what the trustee told us, that such records cannot exist, we have defined that the duration is five years, precisely in view of the provisions of the Criminal Code and the provisions relating to the consequences of erasure of the conviction, believing that this law cannot provide for a longer duration than provided for by the Criminal Code for persons for whom criminal liability has been established, given the nature of the procedure conducted under the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. In particular, it is pointed out whether it is necessary to delete the provision in the Criminal Code relating to a breach of the safeguard measures set out in the litigation procedure. What I pointed out in this afternoon's debate, and yet I'm going to repeat it is precisely the problem that these provisions have not been applied in practice. In principle, we have a dead letter on paper that did not come into practice because the policy of courts, when it comes to domestic violence, can say that it is too mild for both the basic form of crime and for more qualified forms. I will again point out that in 2015, there were 1,859 convictions, of which 660 were prison sentences, means only 35%, and the conditional convictions were 1,186 and 63.80%, respectively. If we look at the structure of the prison sentence, the most punishments that have been imposed for up to six months, as much as 62%, and about the 5th position we mention, there were almost no proceedings for which the bully was convicted. So we felt that a more effective procedure and what could produce greater results in the application would be exactly an infringement procedure that is much faster, more efficient and that could achieve the same purpose that enables the immediate breach and emergency, but also protection measures, to establish a prison for up to 60 days. In any case, through a discussion in particular, we can reconsider the objection you made to this law. In particular, the question of the responsibility of all participants involved in preventing domestic violence also arose. What I must point out is that first of all, a criminal liability for not reporting violence is foreseen. When it comes to the criminal responsibility of the holders of the judicial office, I believe it is unacceptable to introduce such a provision into the law, since we must respect the principle of the independence of the public prosecutors and of the independence of the judges and that it is precisely not possible for the non-compliance within certain deadlines to be a criminal liability, can only be subject to the disciplinary responsibility of the judges and public prosecutors and that the competent disciplinary authorities of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors react if there have been violations and untimely conduct of one and the other. As for the second law, or amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, somehow the most objections were to the remnant of a crime involving abuse of a responsible person’s position. Again, I must draw attention to the fact that we are aware of the problem that is causing such a provision, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to remove the consequences of what was entered into the Criminal Code in 2009 through Article 359, where, through the abuse of the official position, the responsible person has been fully equated with the official person and this has led to inflation of criminal proceedings and we simply could not allow the discrimination and suspension of so many proceedings that have been initiated. For this reason, it was an amendment to the Law in 2012, we are now trying again to amend this member as regards the abuse of the position of the responsible person to bring first of all this crime as a subsidiary and through new criminal acts in the economy to regulate the problem that arises in practice. Particular attention has also sparked a crime in Article 387 concerning discrimination and racism. The question has been asked – on what criteria we have decided which decisions will be respected or not. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, has respected the decision of the Council of the European Union since 28 November 2008, where it is prescribed that this crime should appear and where the decision of the Council of the European Union is called for by the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which is why the decisions of the International Criminal Court have been implemented in this law and the ad hoc courts are not, especially the Hague tribunal, which soon ends in work, and the introduction of an ad hoc tribunal would ask why the other ad hoc tribunals that exist would not find a place in this law. The second, or third, major law we discussed today is the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities' Jurisdiction in countering organised crime. First of all, I believe that he is following trends in conduct and that the applicable law should be improved, first of all, by extending the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, institutionally strengthening him, by allowing the public prosecutor to, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there is a prosecutor's investigation to get the role that belongs to him under the law and to empower himself through his authority to form so-called strike groups that will just help him to collect evidence in an adequate manner and to have a high-quality indictment, and thus to have a judgment after that. In addition, what is important is the introduction of new special departments in senior public prosecutors in Belgrade, the King, Novi Sad and Nis, who will be in charge of crimes with a corrupt element. Since it takes a longer period of time to prepare, i.e. to form a special department, taking into account the infrastructure problems we have and which we hope to solve successfully next year. That is why this law will only apply in 2018. In view of the fact that criminal acts in an economy which will be responsible for senior prosecutions with special departments, this is precisely why the Criminal Code, i.e. the application of the Criminal Code in this section, is currently delayed until 2018. When it comes to the postponement in the rest of the Criminal Code, which has been applied since 1 June 2016, it concerns, above all, new crimes that have been incriminated in accordance with the Istanbul Convention. It is interlinked with the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and has been postponed until June 2016, since only after the adoption of this law that I hope we will have in the next few days is a legal basis for the Judicial Academy to establish a training programme, which will then be implemented and on the basis of which police officers, public prosecutors and judges will be trained. Such a training program is not yet put together, so it is also false that training will take just one day. What I have to say is that every new law that the Ministry of Justice has passed in the previous period has somehow had a delayed application, just for the very reason that the expert public would prepare well for its effective application, and the training was several weeks. So I believe that with regard to the application of this law, it will be the same case. It is simply unimaginable that for something that is a completely new training only takes one day. It is not only a reason for training, given that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour have obligations to bring in appropriate sublaws, which will now enable the law to be implemented properly. They have an obligation to bring in acts in the next three months, and we need to prepare ourselves and program them and train the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to keep a central record we've talked about. So these are all reasons why it is necessary to postpone law enforcement and have a good preparation so that all authorities can act effectively on June 1st. And, all the bodies that are increasing responsibility by this law, first of all, because so far we have had some kind of excluded responsibility. The responsibility has always shifted from one organ to another. Right through the introduction of coordination and co-operation groups and the minutes on which we insisted in the very law that they exist. You can see exactly who acted, whether he did not act according to what was agreed, whether he acted in good time or not, so there is no reason to call after being irresponsible, or not to know what he had to do. I thank you once again, and I hope that in the coming days we will have the opportunity to discuss each individual amendment. Once again, I point out that there will certainly be room for improvement and improvement of the bill before you, given that there are amendments which are both of which and how good and I must admit even more precisely in certain parts compared to what was proposed by the Justice Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-16-0.u6347	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint principled search. This is what we're done with today's work. Tomorrow we will continue the session with the beginning at 10.00 hours.
