ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5398	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 113 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5399	Thank you, Your Honor. In a statement to the media after a meeting in Lithuania, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said several very worrying things about the Sandzak citizens and about the Belgrade-Bar road. I want to congratulate everyone who got the freeway yesterday. Indeed, this Corridor is of paramount importance to all municipalities and to all citizens living in these municipalities. This Corridor is according to the project, but also according to the promises made to the Sandzak citizens, it was meant to pass through Sandzak, more specifically through the cave highlands. This is not only about the pre-election promises of Alexander Vukic, but about all the governments so far, and thus the ruling parties, they made this promise to the Sandzak citizens and took votes from the Sandzak citizens on this particular issue. However, Aleksandar Vucic is the first to come out publicly with a statement that he will soon, so I will quote him, "Renegotiate the section of the Požega-Preljina road", which is very important because of the road to Užic and the entire Zlatibor region, adding that the Sandzak share, and again I quote: "For the costs, the weight of the route, pays no one to build." This information presented by the prime minister is not correct. In 2008, the Decision of the Republic Audit Committee adopted a route of the highway that has been heading from Požega towards Aril, Ivanjica, next to Golia, to the Cave, via Duga Poljana. While SDA-Sandzak was part of the government this route was never questioned. This adopted variant of Corridor 11, through Sandzak, is the shortest version, the easiest to perform because of favourable field configuration, and even 42 kilometers shorter, with fewer bridges and fewer tunnels than this alternative, now announced by Aleksandar Vucic. With that, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister, and that is -- which route will the Corridor 11 be built along to the border with Montenegro? The same question, the same content, I refer to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade and Tourism Rasim Ljajic, and I will not accept the argument that the Ministry of Trade and Tourism is not responsible for this issue because the citizens of Sandzak, businessmen, clothing producers, shoes, furniture from Novi Pazar and all the cities of Sandzak are extremely high hopes in this highway and it is extremely important both for the development and development of businesses and tourism and trade in our region. The same question is also referred to by Ministerial Buildings Zorani Mihajlovic, who, during her visits to Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica and all municipalities in Sandzak, announced that Koridor 11 would be built through Sandzak. I also refer the same content to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Traffic, Edin Zećirovic, whom BDZ Sandzak has delegated to the post. I expect to get these answers within the legal time limit, and I'll make them all public. What is also further worrying us in Sandzak is the government's relationship to issues of vital importance for the survival of Bosniaks, and this is particularly applied and noted in the content of the minority action plan for Chapter 23 in Serbia's negotiations with the EU, which do not include the legitimate demands of Bosniak representatives. First of all, I mean the last statements by Ana Brnabic that said there would be no revision of the minority action plan for Chapter 23. Anyone who has any knowledge of the process of European integration knows that all action plans by nature are prone to review and, therefore, that is the case with the minority from whom all the obligations of the state towards the Bosniaks have been removed. I therefore ask the Prime Minister and the Minister in charge of European Integration – is it also how the Minister of State Administration and local self-government authorised to speak on behalf of the Government about European integrations and documents, to decide on the documents that are important for European integration? I call on Prime Minister and Minister Joksimovic to urgently launch the process of revising the minority action plan for Chapter 23, because it is illegal from the perspective of Bosniaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5400	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5401	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, is helping all and all who celebrate Mitrodan – Happy Glory. I have a question for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – when will special sessions be scheduled on current issues - the security, economic and social situation in Serbia in connection with the migrant crisis and international pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija proposed by Dvori MPs on 6 October 2016? In accordance with Article 209 of the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group at least once a month, determines the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions on a topic in question. It's been a month since October. The Rules of Procedure have been broken and there has never been a single session on the topic at hand, and MPs of the Dvori have proposed two. Then there will be a question for REM – when will the report on monitoring the work of the broadcaster finally appear during the last election campaign? When was the last time Alexander Vukic was on a TV show with any opposition representatives? Is it possible to pass the election period on television to directly transfer the media marketing of SNS in the form of extraordinary press conferences, parties' anniversary gatherings, mass arrival of citizens to party buses at various national meetings and so on? Does the opposition have the right to direct transfers of its similar activities? Under three, the question for Ana Brnabic and Vladan Vukosavljevic – why haven't the local authorities in Kragujevac discussed a competition for co-financing of media projects for two years? Why the provisions of the Kragujevac budget for 2015/16 are not respected The year that provides funds for the co-financing of media projects of 80 million dinars? Who is behind the systematic destruction of the media in Kragujevac, the fourth largest city in Serbia and the city where Serbian journalism was created, where the first newspaper in Serbia was printed on January 5th, 1834? Is that what Radomir Nikolic stands for, the son of the President of the Republic, who admitted at an official press conference that he is violating the Public Information Act and the media? Is there any controversial businessman Milojica Milosavljevic behind the privatisation of local media in Serbia, or is Bratislav Gasic and SNS, who were used by local media for pre-election propaganda, and now not meeting the commitments made from the gas sales contracts, such as the Požega TV or Kragujevac Radio Television, on which workers did not receive salaries for five months? Are these new robbery privatisations directed by people close to the SNS? For Minister of Education Sarčević – whether to announce the general and professional graduation of school 2018/19. For years, they change the conditions of schooling students of the current first and second grade high school, because they went to high school on one condition, and now they're being forced by others? Is the organisation of a major graduation in 2019 a real deadline? Is it according to law and strategy that students who attend a professional degree can only enroll in the relevant university, e.g. After finishing high school, just economic college? When does the minister plan to meet students and parents about all the conditions of college enrollment after high school? A question for the military minister, one -- on how many joint military exercises did the Serbian Army take part in the NATO Pact since when has the SNS been in power in 2012? Under two -- did the Ministry of Defence draft a regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the salaries of professional members of the Serbian Army that came into force after obtaining the consent of the Serbian Government on 26 October 2016? Are these changes actually reducing salaries in Serbia's military and will this result in a reduction of salary for more than 10% of Serbia's military members? Is the Military Union ever consulted on these issues as the only representative union employed in the defense system, which would be a legal obligation? For the end, issues current for Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. What is the purpose of the existence of Serbia's Corridori Company when there is already an enterprise, the Ways of Serbia? How far did it get with the merger of those two companies? How many employees are there in the Corridors of Serbia and who are they? Where were they working before they were employed in the Serbian Corridors? What did they have to do with construction and infrastructure work, and how did they get work licenses? Why, until February 2016, was there no active surveillance on Corridor 11 and were any corrupt activities behind it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5402	The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5403	I thank the president. On behalf of LSV and interested citizens of Panchev, I refer the first question to the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who said last night that what was happening in the Pancjeva azotar is a scandal. With that in mind, I ask him to give me a clear answer as to what he meant when he defined and recognized the events in the Panchean azotars as a scandal? What are the plans regarding the potential privatisation of Azotara in Pancheva, which he also said last night by visiting RTS? The next question I refer to the Ministry of Finance, Dusan Vujovic, given that we from LSV have been under the impression that it is both contradictory statements or inconclusive statements that the prime minister who answered the questions of MPs here last week, as well as statements both the prime minister of the province and the republican governments made after a joint session of the two governments last week. In fact, on several occasions we heard announcements that a law on the financing of Vojvodina would be passed, as the two governments concluded among other things, and then last week in the prime minister's responses here in front of the MPs, we heard that the Republic of Serbia has already met the Constitution guaranteed at least 7% when it comes to the funds allocated to the AP Vojvodina and from the expenditure part of the budget, and that, as he said himself, he does not see how different means would be allocated to the AP Vojvodina, asking the MPs from whom he should take to give Vojvodina? Therefore, I want answers from the finance minister whether by the end of the year, or until the adoption of the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia will be referred to the assembly procedure of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which means that we will see whether the financing of the new law will be planned in 2017 or not. Also, when, in line with this work agenda that I assume the Ministry of Finance is planning, will the public debate begin to assume a draft or predicate a law on the financing of Vojvodina? The third question I refer to was the MUP which answered my previous question as to how it was possible that the main representative of the 2012 Constitution's organisation, which otherwise was banned by the Constitutional Court, and in the assessment of the prosecutor's office, was recognised as a clerofastic, so that this organisation, or its representative Mladen Obradovic, could have been publicly gathered with his associates in the middle of Belgrade to protest the referendum in Republika Srpska? I am not satisfied with the response I received from the MUP where Mladen Obradovic was identified by initials. I don't know why M.O. first. when it's not a minor face. On the other hand, the answer contained information that Mladen Obradovic had scheduled and announced this meeting as a natural person, not as a legal person in front of the organisation "Obraz". With regard to this unsatisfactory response, I request further information from the MUP – is every natural person who wants to schedule a public meeting going through any kind of check? I mean, does anyone like a physical person have a chance to make an appointment, like, a date? heavy firearms, to put all citizens at risk without having previously been carried out by the competent authorities of certain checks to assess the risk, i.e. the personality of the person who has scheduled the public meeting and the safety of the public itself. Among other things, promoting the idea of an organisation which, I repeat, is prohibited by the Constitutional Court of 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5404	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5405	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, since I did not receive answers from Minister Mihajlovic in a regular debate, I will take the opportunity to ask her two questions she avoided to answer when she was in the assembly. The first question is about this theatre opening of major infrastructure projects that someone else negotiated before this government, and what about some projects such as the Danube-Morava-Wardar channel, which has been announced as the biggest project since Serbia's creation, that will start Serbia's economy, even more than "Belgrade on Water", which we heard about afterwards? The project has been announced, the study has been assessed as a positive solution, but to this day we have no answer as to what will happen to the billions that will come from China and who are pompously announced by then by Minister Bacevic and President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic. Citizens living in the Morava Valley wonder because they have no highway, no sea corridor, do we perhaps get that water channel, a waterway so that we can get some of the big investments in central Serbia where more than 500,000 inhabitants live? The second question the minister did not answer is – what is Morava Airport in the King? Why isn't the Morava Airport still working? Since 2012, ministers led by Aleksandra Vukic have raced to announce the opening of the Airport in Lađevci. Sam Vukic said in 2012 – we will soon finish, it is also in the interest of the citizens of the Kings and we will not open it seven or 15 times to take pictures for television and represent ourselves as heroes. After that, they're just taking pictures. Then Minister Dacic announced on November 23rd, then on 7 August 2013, Minister Ilic again that the Turks will open the investment, or finance it. Then, again, Minister Mihajlovic – flights from Morava by the end of 2015. Then, on July 15, 2015, Vučić says – Ships will end this as soon as possible, and on 6 November 2015 Mihajlović says – Ships will become a civil airport, or military-civil airport by the end of 2015. Then on July 29th 2015, Minister Mihajlovic said the airport has great potential and expects regular flights to begin in the first half of 2016. Then again on 2 March 2016, Turkish investors are interested again in co-operation on the development of Morava Airport. So in four years, we've been listening to various announcements about a project that was completed by someone else, about an investment completed by someone else, some previous government, and of all these announcements today, we have nothing from that airport, and he also has great importance for the central part of Serbia. I ask the third question to Prime Minister Vukic and the foreign minister about the latest developments and issues of the prime minister's security, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We listen that security services have failed, that someone will be held accountable, but we have not managed to solve even the most important problems spoken of in the previous period, as Prime Minister Vukic said in 2013 that a new rule on the use of rotational lights and lightbliners in Serbia is being adopted and that, with 500, as many as there were then, I quote his words, there will be only a dozen officials who will have the right to use rotational lights. I travel every week from Triestenik to Belgrade and do not happen to meet at least five different cars or trucks with rotational lights. I ask the Prime Minister - how many current and former officials are entitled to state security today, how many officials have the right to light with rotations and is the regulation adopted in 2013 applied because there are a very large number of abuses primarily from former officials who today continue to use official cars, light with rotations and go for the purpose of their policies to realise their daily activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5406	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5407	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a few questions for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. All these questions are from the security sphere of the state. The first question is – why does Tomislav Nikolic allow the Tomislav Nikolic to bid on possible shifts in the security services of the Republic of Serbia and civil and military when it is not in his jurisdiction, when it is exclusively in the government's jurisdiction, especially since we have in mind that Tomislav Nikolic has committed a major public scandal as soon as he has assumed that his security services are listening and following him? We learned very quickly that the security services were neither listening nor following him, but were listening to security-interested persons from the crime area and so they discovered that he was getting in touch with them, and instead of getting rid of it until the end, what would the President of the Republic in contact with the criminals would do, all responsibility was thrown into the security services. I have no intention of defending security services. I am aware of how much trouble there is, how much unprofessionalism is there, and how many services have caused problems to the whole country. However, these services should be dealt with according to the highest civilization standards, not the wishes of the powerful. We have now been informed in the media that these services are being followed and spied by ministers in the Serbian government, and when I got a little closer to finding out that it wasn't about spying on ministers, but that some ministers were keeping in touch with security-interested persons, so they were caught inflagrantly and instead of responding because of these contacts, instead of the government sitting maybe at a secret session and discussing the content of these talks, the services were wrong. The services are guilty of many things, but their guilt needs to be aware of what their duties are in the system, not because they are not at the will of the Minister or of the will of the President of the Republic. I ask Prime Minister Vukic - why has the Government of the Republic of Serbia not yet adopted a safety clearance rule for ministers? This is where the National Assembly is elected by the prime minister, and then we learn that these ministers spend more hours of their working hours in the Western embassies than in the buildings of the government. Why has the Serbian government not yet passed the rules on the contact of ministers and other high-ranking state officials with foreigners? It's what all governments in the civilized world have. That's what Americans and Russians and everyone else have. That law is usually a confidential nature. You know those confidentiality measures in my case never mean anything. I most easily learn what is with the highest degree of confidentiality, so I know that such a rule does not exist, and it would have to exist, so when Zorana Mihajlović, the minister, meets with foreign ambassadors well to submit a report – she met, on whose initiative, by chance, how many hours they talked about, what they talked about, she talks to them for four, five hours and nobody knows what, and this is how the lowest-ranking spies are prosecuted. I don't pose a threat to the lowest-ranking spies at all, but the most dangerous are spies of the highest rank, especially spies in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5408	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5409	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Kasarna military complex "Philip Kljajic" in Nis is an immobility that is not necessary for the functioning of Serbia's Army is simply seen from the ad of the daily list "Politika" since 1 October 2016. Namely, the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia has launched a sale procedure for the facility. This complex would be given its functional purpose by using city institutions that are in the process of restitution. Namely, cultural institutions, the Gallery of Contemporary Art and the National Museum in Nis entered the process of restitution and, apparently, with lack of money in the city's Nis budget, the city of Nis would lose very important facilities. The question of the Minister of Culture – is it possible for the 2017 budget provided for in the item – to increase the funds for the city of Nis at least in the amount or amount of the city of Novi Sad since 2014? By providing these transfers, i.e. non-intentional transfers and the amount of the city of Nis, the city solves the situation to obtain significant assets that would have just raised the cultural offer significant for the city of Nis and for the operation of the city's tourism offer in general. It is particularly important that the funds would certainly be returned by the city of Nis to the budget of the Republic of Serbia by buying the military facility, but for a different purpose. The second question regarding the Minister of Education, which is – whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education as nominal owner of the Catastrian parcel plans and when to materially support the efforts of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Nis, as well as the faculty, the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics in Nis construction, i.e. by building a new building in the yard of the university that provided ideas and urban solutions eight years ago. ideas and urban permits. In order to co-finance the costs of their interest in the construction of the new Philosophy Faculty building, representatives of Germany, France and the Russian Embassy also voiced, as it would provide the necessary space for numerous cultural events to take place within the existing departments of French, Russian and soon German. An explanation is the same as for the previous question, is it possible to provide for additional funds in the 2017 budget through non-purpose transfers, in the same amount as for the town of Novi Sad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5410	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5411	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have mostly a few questions for the Prime Minister and the president of the SNS. The first question is, have Serbian citizens been reduced salaries and pensions so that the head of the SNS parliamentary group in Vračar municipality, Mr Ugljesa Mrdic, would participate in a peace conference in London? What is the head of any municipality's committee group in Serbia looking for at a peace conference in London, and the topic is the Middle East crisis and security in North Africa? Vračar Municipality pays the daily bills, Vračar municipality pays the costs around the visa and all other costs. That paper is here. How much does it cost, I ask the prime minister of the government, and did the prime minister reduce salaries, reduce pensions, raise electricity prices, raise consumer basket prices? Is this what SNS is fighting for, that the head of the parliamentary group in Vračar municipality travels around London and participates in peace conferences with which he has absolutely nothing to do with, and all about the cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the cost of the citizens of Vrakar? Is that why the stolen DS committees are with their coalition partners on the Vračar municipality? Dear friends, since we hear the prime minister wants to raise a monument to late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, we are asking a second question. Is it at least someone from the SNS, and above all the prime minister's shame, because last week in Ivanjica, the main street that was called Dr. Zoran Djindjic Street? Regardless of political differences, regardless of what we think of each other, Zoran Djindjic was Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who gave his life for a better Serbia, and we see that he gave his life in vain, because we see today that those in power and who he fought all his life are returning to him in an unworthy way. I ask you that for this decision, the decisions to abolish Dr. Zoran Djindjic Street in Ivanjica, we have no political differences, and I ask you to understand what mistake you have made and to appeal to your party listeners who are handling the Ivanjica municipality to change that decision, because that decision cannot make anything good to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am also asking the prime minister why has the Serbian prime minister been in office for two years now, why has the Security Service Coordinator been in violation of the Constitution and the law, when neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic has been able to perform the role of the Security Service Coordinator for two and a half years? According to Minister Stefanovic, the assassination of Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in Jajinci was attempted. The Democratic Party as a state-of-the-art and responsible party for 27 years does not want to politicise the topic, does not want to deal with the subject as Tomislav Nikolic did in 2003 and said the most disgusting things for then-Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, but the DS wants to approach the problem responsibly and statelyly. It is a shame that my smallness as a member of the Security Control Committee and all the members of the Security Control Committee have not had a session in 10 days, and our country has been in a security collapse. The Security Control Committee's session was scheduled, so it was cancelled 10 days after these events with an explanation that the services do not have enough information on the safety of the prime minister. Is it true that 10 days after the event, whether it is political or not, we want to take this problem seriously, is it possible that the services of 10 days after that event do not have enough data and that the session of the Security Control Committee has not been held? The last question for the prime minister, why is it not, is it not, why is Alexander Vulin not removed from the post of Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because in the harshest way, he violated the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia and accused the US ambassador of behind the assassination attempt on the prime minister? I hope you're all aware of the weight one minister says and we demand his shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5412	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5413	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the prime minister, do they intend to educate a commission that will finally examine the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder? With this in mind, especially to examine a political background that has so far been part of a political background that has not been investigated, to examine a public story that the vice president of the DS bathed together with his murderers, who have been convicted, to bathe on Schiller Street No. 2, to examine who and how he excluded the cameras on the day of the murder in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, on the day of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Also, to be examined, given that I was an MP at the time, that I voted for Zoran Djindjic to be prime minister, here are rare from his party who voted for it, I am, to examine the role of vice president, then, their party on the release of his murderers or orderer of the murder of Zoran Djindjic from prison, i.e. to visit the vice president of prison and release from Spasojevic and Lukovic under the nicknames of Shiptar and Kum. In public, it is said that the vice-president of the then government, or vice-president of the DS, visited mentioned persons in prison, and all of this culminated in certain disputes, which eventually resulted in the death of the elected prime minister in a democratic way. With this in mind, I would like someone in the government, if there is an authority, to explain to me what the group today has to do with Zoran Djindjic's policy, because the differences between these two policies are huge. I would also like the government of the Republic of Serbia to explain to me what will be taken by the authorities, especially the MUP for the famous heinken beer strike brigade and beer drinking contests in Smederjevska Palanca and on the financing of the municipality through the football club. Also, on the last summit, so-called. I noticed from seven, eight, the cyclists gathered among the political parties four are not political parties at all. So it's about citizens' associations and I'm asking the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Economy what they're going to do about what certain associations are represented as political parties? In Parliament we already have two associations that are registered, not in the Register of Political Parties but in the Business Register, lawyers as Mrs Radeta know it, and perform in parliament as political parties. Question for the Ministry of State Administration does this mean that we all need to put out political parties and perform as citizens' associations, because to establish a political party you need 10,000 citizen statements, if it is a minority 1,000, and if you register in the Business Register you need three signatures? Then you're camouflaged into a political party and that's how you perform. With that in mind, I must also say that the Ministry of State Administration must take account of this, since political parties are subject to control by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and these associations of the phantom political parties they use, and the NGO to represent itself as major political parties. They don't have that obligation. Also, political parties must keep records of contributions, legal individuals, associations of citizens do not have such a commitment to the Agency. What is most important to NGOs that are political parties in this case, they have the right to finance abroad while political parties do not have the right and therefore these associations of citizens, we are witnessing these days that this is happening, not to the NGOs, but to their own anti-government organisations, they are also playing the law and with that, even some of the party leaders, are, in fact, citizens' associations and advisers to foreign embassies. One of the leaders of the NGO representing himself as leader of the political party is an adviser at the US Embassy. I am clearly and loudly asking the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Industry to intertwine, do we need to put out political organisations, avoid all the obligations that the law requires and act like them, or are they going to do something about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5414	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5415	Thank you. Questions for National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. Why is it that fellow Martinovic is allowed to abuse even 28 times the application of the Rules of Procedure in order to brutally attack other MPs along the agenda, insulting them in a dead name? Why was Ćirić punished, as soon as he first tried to do the same thing as his colleague Martinovic, unpunished as many as 28 times? Why was Djurisic punished, when he justifiably protested for denying the right to replication? Why is a colleague of Atlagic allowed to go beyond any agenda... I'm sorry, can I, uh, maybe later, stabilize my throat, and then again, or read my co-worker instead?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5416	I can't hear you, co-worker. You'll be in touch later. All right. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5417	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will ask for our notice from the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Traffic Affairs, as this is what I want to talk about with regard to both resolutions. In 2009, the United States of Serbia has adopted a new road safety law that creates conditions for the establishment of a new modern traffic security management system. This law also defined the obligations and responsibilities of existing institutions, strengthening their capacities, and provided for the formation of new institutions. Certainly, the new solution and the criminal provisions provided for by this law for all traffic safety entities have contributed to the reduction of all the consequences of traffic accidents. This is also the case in 2010 as a turning year, i.e. the first year of application of this law when a significant reduction in our paths has been recorded. This trend of reductions continued in the coming years, but still Serbia, when it comes to European statistics, is not at an envious level. The most common causes of traffic accidents in us are irregular and unadjusted speed, carrying out improper vehicle operations in traffic, non-compliance with the right of passing championship, psychophysical condition of the driver, above all under the fact of alcohol, but irregular walking in August. According to official statistics in Serbia, including in Europe, the frequent cause of car accidents is young drivers. It is a category of citizens from 18 to 25 years of age with up to three years of driving experience, they cause multiple traffic accidents compared to experienced drivers and unfortunately the total number of road traffic users, young drivers, participated with around 15%. This indicates the need for special measures directed towards this category. I believe that the Working Group for the Care and Care of Young Drivers, which was formed in 2014 under the Co-ordination Body for the Security of Transport of the Government, has prepared some solutions on tightening and rules and sanctions, when these participants are in traffic and I certainly believe that certain programmes, prevention, education have been prepared, since this is very important. Since the entry into force, this law has undergone several amendments, and these changes have been technical, some have concerned compliance with our other laws, or EU regulations, but there have been no comprehensive changes and additions. During this period, the Transport Safety Strategy for the period 2015-2020, which has defined the direction of further improvement of this system and certainly for its realisation, also requires some new legal solutions. For years we have been listening back to the announcements of amendments and additions to this law. Several times, the competent institutions have dealt with this issue. Different working groups have been formed, drafts have been prepared. Of course, this law is as I said established a new system and the fact is that applying all the provisions and assessing the quality of new solutions takes time, but I believe that regardless of the complexity of this system for six years since this law is applied quite enough to prepare some of the changes that we have concluded are necessary. The public debate was held last year and envisions a change in the number of provisions relating primarily to drivers, i.e. traffic participants. The application itself has also shown the need to amend and supplement those provisions that define both the duties and obligations of the institutions, as this complex system is also based on the co-operation of institutions from various areas and requires a continuous improvement and a measure of prevention and regulation. The fact that the ZOBS has also contributed to the development of modern traffic infrastructure by prescribing and obligations for road controllers, regulations in the construction of road infrastructure and maintenance of traffic and signalling. I believe that yesterday's opening of the LJig-Preljina highway will also have an impact on the reduction of traffic accidents, as this share also meets the current security requirements regarding construction, and it certainly replaces one of the most difficult and burdensome traffic in Serbia, which is the Ibarska highway that, with a large number of risk points back in the years, has been taking lives. My particular question today is, when amendments and additions to the Law will come to the National Assembly, what they include with one proposal to hold a public debate in the National Assembly or in respect of the practice of previous mandates, perhaps a joint session, the two committees responsible for this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5418	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Are you ready now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5419	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I'm sorry, that was my attempt to get used to a lot of noise in the O.R., and that's why my throat collapsed. Let's pick up where we left off. Why was Djurisic punished when he protested justifiably for denying the right to replication? Why does the President of the Assembly interrupt the replicas again when no single member is allowed by the Rules of Procedure? Why is it that colleagues of Atlagic are allowed to read the same speech over and over again about Vukic and Matthew, who we have all learned by heart? Are these two archaics the result of the president's personal hypersensitivity to criticism, or are they pressured to fulfill her phone orders from Prime Minister Vukic? Why does the speaker of the assembly consistently promote a lie as a desirable way of discussing it in the Assembly, and punish any MP who dares to tell the truth about the way it conducts the session? Why is the president's pet, a colleague Martinovic, allowed to lie and brutally insult his colleague Radulovic by calling him a known criminal, thief and liar, and fellow Zivkovic is not allowed to present a completely true critical assessment of the president's work by realizing that she is making public toilets and garbage from this temple of democracy? Why is his colleague Zivkovic officially punished for the truth, and he is not a colleague of Martinovic for his lies? Why does the President of the Assembly keep lying facelessly that the members of our... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5420	My colleague Stamenkovic, I must tell you that the questions you are asking must be in line with the Rules of Procedure. You're insulting the entire parliament right now and I can't let it go any further. You call your colleagues, using the form of parliamentary questions, liars, criminals and so on. If you want to deal with law enforcement, I don't mind, get on the register and start the proceedings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5421	I'm just telling the truth. The truth hurts. Why does the President of the Assembly keep lying facelessly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5422	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5423	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, my parliamentary question will be asked to the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs concerning media attacks on Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. We are witnessing daily continuous, extremely tenant, malicious and untrue media attacks on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. These brutal media attacks are works of mafia-tacun and criminal-political groups, both domestic and foreign implementations. The attacks go beyond not only the limits of good taste, but they have deeply slipped into the area of social pathology and criminal responsibility. The media attacks on our prime minister have become very dangerous and personal, as they even call for murder, which is unrecorded in the political culture of democratic countries. To be clear, Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is a democratic country where criticism of authorities is even desirable, but there is a huge difference between criticism and media attacks. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and that is why it is socially beneficial to society as a whole. However, certain individuals employed in certain tabloids, but also some on-call analytical and professional scientific charlatans, total lies about Prime Minister Vukic and his family are poisoning our public to the limit. Remember only mounted media attacks on his son Daniel that he was involved in an abortion fight, which was a notorious lie. Furthermore, physical attacks on his brother Andrej in the middle of Belgrade shocked citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The scandalous article of these days in one daily newspaper, which is funded by some Western countries, without any evidence of any connection between Andrej Vukic and numerous imaginary affairs and has been sping so that he criminalises Andrej and portrays him as a suspicious person who deals with illegal and illegal activities. The untrue attacks on Andrej Vukic that he owns the firm "France" and "Fin-Fin" led to the fact that the reason for the possible assassination of Andrej would be suspicious business. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of a fictitious media lie that Prime Minister Vukic and his brother Andrej took to the basement in Zemun of a certain Kornic and asked him to falsely accuse Rodic and give him 150 euros. Media attacks on the prime minister also joined BIRN by lying that there was manipulation over the election of a company that was supposed to be in charge of pumping water on a dipping of the Tamnava-West Field, which was also denied by the World Bank. Who's BERN, to understand? It is a follow-up of a media organisation known as "Advise for War and Peace Research", and in Serbia it is also known that it published a text by the royal journalist Filipovic, accusing the Yugoslav Army of deliberately killing at least 800 Albanian children under the age of five in 1999, a notorious lie, and a journalist Filipovic was sentenced at the Military Court for Defamation and Spying, pardoned by five-octobaric champions of NATO dusters. In media attacks on Prime Minister Vukic, NUNS also took part in the prime minister's comments on the writing of BIRN, arguing that the prime minister was pressuring the freedom of the media, which is not true, because the prime minister's response was correct, fair and just. And, believe it or not, in the media attacks, the great Jovo Bakic, professor of sociology at the Faculty of Philosophy, is also involved in the very primitive, non-civilization, and what my Dalmatinians would say is not to that extent appropriate, I quote, not a donkey, let alone a docent, finished quote. You should know, gentlemen of NUNS, or pretend you don't know, that Serbia guarantees freedom of expression and criticism, but that is also true in the mutual direction, that is, that the prime minister and the government have the right to have an argumentally denied in a lie. The arsenal of weapons found in crates near the family home of Prime Minister Vukic was not left to play with him, but to be used, although we heard from some MPs in this high house on account of the most ground floor words going to the bottom of the river, and media attacks on the prime minister's mother and father were unrecorded in Serbian history. Finally, the attack on Vukic and his family is an attack on Serbia and Serbia's attempt to rise from the penitentiary knee of the sole culprit...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5424	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5425	... to which she threw the policy of the former regime of fighting for other people's interests over our backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5426	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5427	In the end, I'm asking a parliamentary question. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5428	Thank you. (Marko Atlagic, from the scene: Will there be criminal responsibility for these attacks? ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Zoran Bojanic, Dusan Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Milos Boskovic and Jasmina Nikolic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Veljko Kovacevic and Zoran Ilic, acting as Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Stefana Miladanovic, Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepić, Olena Papug, Branislav Mihajlović, Zoran Zivković, Katarina Rakić, Marko Djurisić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstanović, Zdravko Stanković, Goran Ješić, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Balša Božić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Nemanja Mirčić, Miroslava Stanković Đurić, Zoran Krasić, Nikola Savić, Natas Jovanović, Vjerica Rade, Sreto Perić, Aleksandra Belačić, Nemanja Mirčić, Bosko Obradović, Ivan Jastić and Marija Jašević, as well as the infrastructure and the Committee of telecommunications. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5429	We have intervened with this amendment to Article 1 by making it simple that we did not accept what the Proposer wants to change in Article 13 of this Law, the basic text, but proposed an intervention in the 8th position of that member by amendment, and we are asking that the text be deleted from that attitude: "and the state waterways in the territory of the Autonomous Region are prescribed by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province". What exactly is this about? It is a provision that says a way of technical maintenance of international, interstate and state waterways is prescribed by the minister, he means the ministry responsible for this area. There is no need to further dismember this and that the jurisdiction of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina is imposed for the national waterways, because even so far, the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina has not adopted a sublegal act, it does not exist. If there is, I'd like you to tell me where it was posted. I failed to find it in the province's regulations, but therefore there is one quite solid sublaw of the ministry, which fully meets all criteria regarding the technical aspect of waterway maintenance. So, there is no need to transfer the AP to Vojvodina, especially if it is in the form of formulations – state waterways. It is not a formulation – the waterways of an autonomous province, because there is no such thing. Perhaps the main reason why this amendment should be adopted is – so there is no technical difference, it is all the same, because this is still a technical sublegal act that defines how waterways are maintained by technical means. Waterways are almost identical, whether they can be international, interstate or national in this nomenclature. I propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment, because it only precises and improves the text and casts out what does not exist in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5430	Thank you, colleague Krasic. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Ivan Kostic and Marija Janušević, and joint MPs Goran Ješić, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5431	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, I will use the time and authority of the promoter. In principle, when we talked about this law three weeks ago, we said our opinion on this law, a few key things that are not acceptable to us to vote for this law, but we didn't hear an explanation why we're going into this kind of amendment and supplementation of the law at all, especially why we change one of those laws a few times a year. Article 2, where the introduction of private operators, i.e. private companies, which will do the work of directorship in this case, is the matter which has been explained to us and which is in the light of this member of the law that is being amended. The key argument is that we will do more work in the future, because now the funds that are criminally small at the moment, and that is why we all have to agree, to maintain waterways and all other hydrotechnical facilities that involve maintenance are small and they are spent on funds, such as wages, technical maintenance, etc. I didn't get an answer from the minister -- how is that going to have more money now? I understand that the Waterway Directorate is going to do surveillance and participate in the creation of project documentation, but I didn't understand in what context new funds are now being created that we're going to allocate to privates. In addition, unfortunately, we had an accident that happened a few days ago, and it concerns Ivan Milutinovic and the companies doing these jobs and doing these jobs for the Directorate. My main argument against this is that we don't have privates anywhere, and we've confirmed that in the Netherlands or Austria, you don't have a private on such important jobs, and we're not sure, or there's no obligation in the budget to secure a larger amount of money for a job that needs to be done. Also, we think that such important jobs must remain in the hands of the Republic of Serbia or the AP Vojvodina, as far as flood defence is concerned. In the end, we have very bad experience in privatizing such important jobs that we put into private hands. I have nothing else to think about but by privatising Ivan Milutinovic, we are preparing and opening the door for a known buyer who will have the opportunity as a privateer to do jobs that are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. That's one thing. The second thing is, it's further explained that in the next year, we're going to make regulations that we're going to choose these private companies that are going to work on, we don't know what money, these jobs that the Directorate didn't have enough money for right now. We didn't get an answer about what's going to happen to the employees and those people who are operators on the technical mechanism of the current water facilities we have. What's very important, according to us, is going to happen next year? Will the Ministry be able to pass the rules very quickly and license those who need to do so? Will the licences issued so far by the Ministry of Water Construction Enterprises apply, above all, to those in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and those in the Republic of Serbia, such as "Regulations", for example, from Sremska Mitrovica, and what will happen in that space when we do not have a rule? Will this job continue to work on the Directorate and when will these rules be adopted? This is a completely unacceptable thing, especially if we have experience in an area that is very close to this area, which is based on this area, which is an area of water economy that is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia and where we have suffered huge damages, not knowing the work by the rest of the ministry, to the possibility of privatising some enterprises that, especially in central Serbia, are completely dysfunctional for the work that needs to be done. In the end, we have comparative experience, first of all with Hungary, which privatized its dominant water industry and its results are catastrophic. On the other hand, we have a Republic of Croatia which, in my opinion, has the best law on water economy, which is analogy for this job that should be dealt with by a new agency, or to give private people the job they should be doing. This is totally unacceptable because these are matters of public interest and very important importance for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5432	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5433	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to accept. Why? Because I think there's a good reason and a good logic in opening up a market space when it comes to technical maintenance activities. It was already said in the debate in principle and let's remind in the shortest possible time what are the potential positive effects, if the proposed solution is adopted, therefore, if some space is made for market players to do specialist tasks in the domain of technical maintenance. Just a question of the fund, or money, doesn't have to be crucial. If space is opened that the market dictates conditions, hence the outcome in terms of who will deal with a particular business, competition is allowed. So for the same scale, for the same means, there's a possibility of getting cheaper, more favourable conditions. It's something that comes naturally with market participation. That's the first thing. Second, the question of the efficiency of the business. Also, a potentially good effect, if there is competition. The third thing is to ensure that all the funds allocated to this purpose are used for it and, in that sense, certain salaries are mentioned in the explanation. So what's intended for technical affairs, technical maintenance to be used for that very purpose. That's all good stuff. On all of this, another note, as a gratis bonus for the applicant of the amendment from me. It may not be bad to think about making a written explanation of the amendment that someone else is doing so in front of this promoter. What we've got is completely inconsistencies. I want to believe this is a pure mistake and, once again, not to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5434	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5435	Thank you. Chairman, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so this amendment is actually a paradigm of the situation in which we met today. This amendment reads as "wipes" and is not the only one. It comes as a proposal from one party which has submitted several amendments to this law in the same text, and this text reads as "wipes". I'm saying, it's a paradigm. What's not surprising is, it's no wonder that the politics of one party only and only comes down to a lie, then it's no wonder that we have a bunch of these amendments today, that we have these faceless explanations and that we have this kind of discussion. So, the amendment is "expunged", which is even more pointless, which is what counterpart Orlic was talking about earlier, and the arguments are no, absolutely no. Let's take a look and analyze that argument. Says the introduction of privates into such an important sector, such as the maintenance of hydro-building facilities at the moment while the Directorate doesn't have enough expert personnel we've seen what brings as a result. So now they're against the private sector, now they're against the introduction of private companies, now we're back to self-government socialism. All right, just run for next election and tell the people you're pushing for self-government socialism. After he says, we saw them successfully rebuild after their 2014 floods. Just don't warn us and honor the results and the flood story. So, we saw you in Capco getting ready for the floods. The Sabbath is also the best example for your preparedness, i.e. Unpreparedness, and interest in flood problems. Then it goes down a few more sentences where it says at the end – in a year it can be destroyed. Yeah, that's where I agree. In a year, there's a lot to be destroyed. You have a colleague next to you, I think he's sitting on your left, not currently in the O.R., he's the best example of how in a year there's a lot to destroy. So on Smederevska Palanka, we saw that in a short time, it could be completely destroyed and a single municipality would be sickened. Just one more sentence to take advantage of the opportunity I've already answered. Speaking of lies. This morning we heard one lie from your colleague, I must have just arrived at me, therefore, because of the citizens of Serbia, to say that this letter to the President of the Greater City Municipality of Vračar – On the occasion of the decision of the larger Vračar City Municipality of 2 September, which I was sent on an official trip to London Great Britain, I hereby inform you that, taking into account that all the costs of my journey, accommodations, food security provided by the organizers, I am not going to raise the rights and the same, Ugljesa Mrdić, whom your colleague had just unfounded and falsely accused of something. I suggest that this amendment be rejected and I apologize for coming out of the agenda a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5436	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5437	The chairman, Rule 106, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, must be discussed. If we use this matrix, then all the parliamentary groups will use their time to discuss the amendments, meaning 15 minutes, plus the parliamentary group, to speak and respond to all charges coming out of position. So I'm asking you to stick to the agenda and keep this stuff out of the way. Every MP has the right, at a time when parliamentary questions are asked, to ask them. Then the government and the addressee must respond. It's not like the amendment debate is being abused so that the ruling majority will say whatever comes to mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5438	I believe that colleague Markovic was in the topic, that he referred several answers to the questions raised at this session. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) All right. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5439	Thank you. I really didn't know I had linguist advice across the street in this room and we were discussing the literacy and illiteracy of acts. Yes, our intention when we write "is deleted", and you should have read why the minister refused, and the ministry, this is completely reasonable. That woman says that if we erase what she's introducing into this law, it changes her intensity of changing this law, and we erase things that we don't think are good. Please, I have spent two years as commander of the AP Vojvodina Defence Staff in office, at the time of the floods in the Republic of Serbia, no object in the AP Vojvodina was injured. The truth is, as far as Capac is concerned, and I ask you to know and understand, the mayor of Sapca at the time, on Monday he called me as commander, he got 200 thousand bags, got a bag of pumps, and they sent him a few trucks to solve the problem of an open embankment that he didn't leave open, but the Ministry of Agriculture, because he broke his contract with the World Bank, and the six-metre right-hand coast of Sava was opened in Shabac. Don't accuse people, you did something out there that's inappropriate. As for the amendments, I firmly believe from the experience of the water industry that it's not good to introduce a private into such an important activity. Because it's a bad practice and we're not against private business, we're in favour of keeping certain jobs in the hands of the state. These are important things. As I stood up for the Secretary for Agriculture, in charge of a resorient water industry in Vojvodina, that water companies are not privatized, your situation that you mentioned when it comes to natural disasters and when it turns out that those who are privatised are completely dysfunctional and cannot respond to the request of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina and all those we need to defend at that point, and here I think that if the money is not enough to direct, there is not enough for privates either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5440	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5441	I have to react because and when we had a debate in principle and now, as much as we explain to you that there is a difference between what is a water business and what is a waterway, you can't possibly understand it. It's these different things. Totally two different things. One is the water industry, among other things in the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio, but not to look at at all whose resources it is, the arrangements of the coast and the protection against the flood, etc. The second is the depth of the waterway and the safety of that waterway. That's two different things. You talk about the water industry all the time, maybe consciously or unconsciously, I'm not even going in for a reason, and of course you're giving away a lot of wrong information, not to say incorrect information, starting with those floods you're talking about in 2014. So let's just sit down and if we have to explain it again, that's two different things. The theme of this law is not the water industry and it is not the coast and it is not the protection from floods, but the depth of the waterway and the safety of the waterway. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5442	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the commander who just checked in, he was the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, i.e. Regional Secretary for Agriculture and Water Management in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The largest budget and most money available from all the province's secretariats at the time had exactly the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture and Water Management. Biggest. That's where the machinations of the unprecedented proportions took place. First, as far as the canals and canal networks in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are concerned, it was built by its largest work at the time when this part of our country was part of Austria, or Austria. This channel network is truly well designed, well designed and more or less evenly distributed on the territory of the entire Vojvodina. What was the problem? The problem was that since 2000-2016, of course by calculating the period of flooding in 2014, the channel network has absolutely not been maintained in an adequate manner. In Vojvodina, people had a problem not only with the Sava as well as the Danube largest water river on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in Vojvodina people had a problem in 2014, but not just in 2014. I must remind you of 2006, Yas Tomic, many other sites on the territory of the AP Vojvodina due to inadequate maintenance of the canal network, people in Vojvodina and certain places in Vojvodina were flooded not by Sava and Danube but by local streams, words, channels, water streams that served as a waste dump, as a garbage dump, as places where even animal waste was deposited, medical waste, etc. As for the floods, the commander who appeared, none of the municipalities and none of the cities protected from these floods, including Sremska Mitrovica, since the key role in the defence of Sremska Mitrovica was played by generals, the MUP who actually co-ordinated the actions on the defence of Sremska Mitrovica since the flood in 2014. If I'm not mistaken, in 2014, Sabac defended first of all the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the floods and defended the Serbian Army because he was the head of Serbia's Army General Staff, General Dikovic all the time in Sapac. To this end, the local self-government in Shapco was unable to defend Shabac from the swelled Sava River, that the government of Serbia, so the state had to send the Chief of Staff to defend Shabac with the military from the floods. It's in Capca, so most of it was defended by the Army. The interior ministry also contributed greatly to Sremska Mitrovica next to the Army. Of course, the citizens of Šapca and the citizens of Sremska Mitrovica also gave it, but the commander who just called in with the defence of Šapca and with the defense of Sremska Mitrovica had little to do with it. Most of the time, the commander and his chief of staff were sitting in Morovic's hotel, eating, drinking about the cost of the AP Vojvodina. Sava, Sremska Mitrovica, the Shabac may have seen on television, may not have, but if they had defended them from the flood, I'm quite certain of that. The state, therefore, defended the state, through the military, through the police, by raising combat preparedness and raising awareness of citizens and Sremska Mitrovica and Capca from floods. If the water had entered the Zorka chemical industry in 2014, it would be a big question of how all the seagulls would threaten Šapcu, but also of the entire Sava River. In Sremska Mitrovica, there was little less danger than that type of hawari, but water practically came to those last almost sacks that were placed on the banks of the Sava River in Sremska Mitrovica. Both Sremska Mitrovica and Shabac have defended the state of Serbia. I am taking this opportunity to thank both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers of Resorship and the Serbian Army and the police, because they have been active day and night in the defence of both Sremska Mitrovica and Sapca, as well as other places in Serbia, i.e. in Vojvodina since the floods and in 2014. (Tatjana Macura, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5444	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. I'm sorry, buddy. Ask for word from the Rules of Procedure. (Tatjana Macura, from town: I quit. You want to do business or you don't want to do business? You're giving up. The word has been made by MP Goran Jesic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5445	I'm thrilled with the ignorance of someone who's going to educate us here with a degree in law school. You know who's responsible under the law. No generals are responsible. Simply, you have a law that defines who does what in such a situation. That's one thing. The second thing, I am sorry to inform you that we were in a water company building all the time in Mitrovica, which is located on the Sava coast, and General Kuribak was placed in Morovic, which was sent to the moment when the head of the SNS municipality refused the order to work in accordance with the law, and then the prime minister reacted and sent the general there to resolve the issue exclusively of "Morovic" under the order of the Vodoprivreda Vojvodina. Dot. Let's get this thing over with. Who did what was proven by the Obrenovac. Sabac was opened 600 meters because you broke up the agriculture ministry tender, Goran Knezevic was a minister, and because you did not close 600 metres of the Sava Majesis and it had to be closed. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will return to the serious topics, Minister, you will agree that cleaning water streams on what is water streams directly affects the level of water that we should defend ourselves from. Don't tell me what it is, what it isn't. You wrote in your explanation that there will be more money because you will not spend money on the directorate but will call the tender and give it to the privates. To inform you, there are usually direct prices that are mostly less than market prices, so according to this cubic grinding and cleaning of river streams, you have a lower price than the privateer will give. In the end, the living were seen. You will pass this law as it is, and we will ask the question – what are your prices today, and what will be your prices when you call a tender and get privates for jobs that we firmly believe should not be done by a privateer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5446	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5447	I answered the amendment, if I may say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5448	Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5449	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm surprised there's such a fear of privatisation because all the jobs, Mr. Arsic, are to inform you, I also have very extensive documentation on the territory of the AP Vojvodina when it comes to the cleaning of channels and channel networks and all the jobs related to the construction and arrangement of so-called. Atari roads, and that was all in the jurisdiction of this commander, do you know who these jobs were given to? Privates. If you tell me and give me a state firm that cleaned up a channel in Vojvodina or you tell me a state firm that built Vojvodina an Atari road, I'll be grateful for that knowledge, but as far as I know, something like that hasn't happened. Jobs were exclusively, but exclusively received by companies and companies that were directly linked to the then political nomenclature in Vojvodina, in particular Bojan Pajtic and DS. What happened? Those companies got the money. This is not at all controversial, but the work has not been done and that is why in 2014 we had a problem with the spilling of small water streams, with the spilling of canals because instead of being cleaned up, there were dead pigs, broken washing machines, tractor tyres, trailers, etc. It all existed in the Vojvodina canal network, while the commander had the resources at the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture and Water Management. The commander also has the means to build Atari roads. At least 50% of the Atari roads in Vojvodina were not built anywhere. There's a colleague of mine, Marian Risticevic, who can confirm it to you. He understands that in the end. No Atar roads were made at all, not maintained, but the money was given. The money was actually robbed. That's what this is about. In 2014, the city of Sabac had an emergency headquarters. This is true, but this emergency headquarters was absolutely not ready to defend the Sapac from the upcoming Sava River, although they were timely warned by the Republic hydrometeorological institution and by the Public Enterprise “Serbia” that there was a water that could be extremely dangerous for the city of Šabac and that Šapac was threatened by the flood unless the appropriate measures and actions prescribed by law were taken to defend the city of Šapca from the floods. That didn't happen, though. In May 2014, the town of Sabac and the mayor of Sapca probably wanted to push political spite with the government of the Republic of Serbia to the detriment of the citizens of Sapac and at the moment of Sava's arrival. Even my colleague Zoran Babic, I think, was a one-night stand-in commander for emergency situations in the town of Sapco. That night when a man came to Shabbath, they didn't have unprepared sacks with sand, shovels. So, the shovel wasn't in the Whisper. Later the construction machines arrived, and later the sandbags arrived, the army arrived. General Dikovic stayed in Sapac the whole time and followed what was happening, and thanks first to the Serbian Army, Sabac was not flooded in May 2014, and in addition to local self-government in Sapco, Sabac would swim a great deal. I'm telling you one more time, given that there was a great danger of Sava entering the Zorka factory where there was a mineral fertilizer factory, the Color Factory, etc., there was a great danger from the chemical accent and from the haiarium of unsuspected proportions. Just thanks to the timely reaction of the state authorities, not the province authorities of the AP Vojvodina at the time, not the town of Sapca, but the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, there was no accident and no disaster in Sapac, nor in Sremska Mitrovica. As for the generals of the MUP who were in Sremska Mitrovica, they were in charge of monitoring the defence, not only of Sremska Mitrovica, but of the whole part of Srem, from where Sava from Croatia influences Serbia, to Sremska Mitrovica. And sandbags, and construction operations, all the less so was raised on their feet thanks to the timely reaction of the relevant republican ministries and people from the republican ministries, not only of the MUP, were on the ground all the time. We've had an incredible situation. Unbelievable. I just don't know how someone can think of such a thing. About a year ago, when it rained a little stronger and the Sava rose slightly, it was far lower than it was in May 2014, the Croatian citizen of Serbia announced the amazing news - Bojan Pajtic came to a rush in Klenek, between the Sapac and the Rum municipality, with information that the rash broke and that he came to save the citizens from the floods. Of course, none of it happened, absolutely none of it happened, and for the purpose of the election campaign, a man walked a couple of times along that embankment in the populated town of Klenek and came back to Novi Sad. He brought some two second-hand pumps and came back for Novi Sad, nor did the rash break, nor did any disaster occur. But I want to tell you what all these people were willing to do not earn some cheap political point, and in 2014 for the defense of Sremska Mitrovica, for the defense of the Sapac, for the defense of the Klenko, for the defense of the Jamena, for the defense of all cities, municipalities, cities and villages that were beside the Sava River did absolutely nothing, except to the end empty all possible funds and all possible resources, which were primarily on the account of the provincial Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. By the way, and I don't think it's an accident, the biggest budget, I repeat again, the largest budget in Vojvodina during the time of Bojan Pajtic and DS was just in the hands of the province's secretary for agriculture and water industry, and that's why you've always had a literal war between DS and LSV, not about who's going to be president of the Vojvodina Assembly, not even about who's going to be head of the province's government. Well, imagine who's going to be the country's agriculture secretary. Why? For money, because of money, due to the alleged maintenance of channels that were not maintained, due to the alleged creation of unmade ataric roads, and the funds went directly under the control of DS and these funds were actually used to fund the pre-election DS campaign, and this shows the practice of all the regional, local and republican elections in Vojvodina from 2000 to 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5450	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Jesic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5451	Let's put an end to this. Mr Martinovic, it is a shame not to tell the truth in parliament, and it is even more embarrassing that people who spent their whole lives in water companies at Jasa Tomic, when the Romanian rash broke, spent a month and worked day and night, to belittle them, that's the point. Don't do that, these people are the only ones with the knowledge and the brains. You showed how you defend Serbia in Obrenovac, period. The other thing is, you asked me what private guy was doing the channel cleanup. None, 22 water companies are part of "Vod Vojvodina", not all of them from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, such as Galovica and such as the "Sava" water company from Šapac, but are financed and operated exclusively at direct prices. One thing's private, it's privatized a long time ago in Backo Topoli. As far as the Atari roads are concerned, I don't know how you combined the Atari roads with this, but I'd ask you to look at the budget and you'll understand that from the 2013 budget, and you've been an expert on Atari roads in Ruma, I know that, and since 2013 when I've been making the budget, in 2014 and 2015 you don't have the position of Atari roads, because it's notority for investment. Please, look at the budgets, you have on the site, that when I was making the budget, there were no Atari roads. Finally, a bunch of high-quality people are in the water industry and, unfortunately, they will leave the water industry, as well as this law, because we don't invest in the water industry first and because we don't deal with the water industry or the issue of waterways, which is closely related to this. One more thing, it's not the largest agricultural budget in the AP Vojvodina budget, but education, you know that, and agriculture grew that moment, and above all, water economy, when we started to make payments to invest in the water industry, which resulted in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5452	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5453	Mr. Chairman, I thought I was entitled to a replica, but good. I agree with Madam Minister that we need to separate the waterways from the water industry. I don't understand how someone who commanded agriculture and water in Vojvodina didn't know that, but what they knew was that they were collecting taxes. In 2010, the Water Act was adopted, where disposal fees were declared public revenue. It's the largest fine of farmers in Vojvodina that could have been. Since then, at least three droughts have hit us in Vojvodina. Imagine farmers who have to pay taxes per hectare, because disposal fees have become public income, when in the middle of the drought, when the drought takes the harvest he has to pay the disposal fee. Drought kills him, needs water, and he pays the disposal fee. That was not enough for them, so to satisfy those 500 employees in the “Vojvodina Waters”, in that building when you cross the “Long” bridge and on the right, there was no place to sit, so on shift they came to work, and one sat in a chair from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m., and then the other from 11.00 to 15.00 p.m. There is not enough room to cost 500 and some people, as they have employed in the Vode of Vojvodina, and that was all the party's infrastructure of the former regime. Imagine a farmer who must support one party on his shoulders and at the moment when his drought takes and what a great tribute. As far as Atari roads are concerned, we know which one he was doing, he was doing a coalition partner. The Atharic roads worked by prepping up a truck of ristles and throwing a little bit into the hurricanes, just to show that something was tampered with and charged, it seems to me, twenty million in such a way to fill some of their party holes. We who live there and how well we know. We also know how the water streams are arranged, for that disposal fee that farmers pay and which is the biggest revenue of the Vojvodina budget, that is, the largest part of the water and sewerage compensation paid by farmers in Vojvodina, and they have no use for it. Neither are the channels, the secondary network, so what the Danube takes is one thing, so one is growth, that we understand each other about the flood, one is the growth of the water pole and the level of the rivers, and the other is the streams of water. It's a big difference, Vojvodina, less than, besides Fruska Gora, it's not hilly and it's not exposed to a stream of water streams, as it is in Serbia – Tamnava, Kolubara, Crna Trava down, Surdulica, what's been going on these years. So Serbia is far more exposed to lush water streams than Vojvodina, and in Vojvodina, Jasa Tomic happened and I think that there is great sadness and sadness, no matter where the flood hits, any population, any village. The fact is that these in Vojvodina have done nothing, the fact is that there have been major abuses, the fact is that the commander has mixed the water streams with the water industry, and I think that the Water Act that they have brought is the biggest obstacle to the regulation of our water streams, where one system that has been uniquely broken into three companies, are "Serbian", "Belgrade Water" and "Vojvod's Water". I think it's one big obstacle, because theoretically you can compete to make a higher rash on one side, to flood Vojvodina, or to make a higher rash on Savi, to flood Serbia. So that's something that's come to terms in Capco. Thus, various misunderstandings are possible, depending on the political structures in the province of Vojvodina, that is, on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. My surprise is that one commander didn't know that, but what you're going to learn will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5454	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5455	I welcome all present, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic and the guests from the Ministry. I must express my surprise and disappointment that no staff experts from the Water Directorate who are part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry participated in this debate. A previous speaker who is chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Water and Forestry gave us a lecture on this. However, I must say, because I am a deputy member of that same committee, that so far no one has been mentioned in the water industry. So on that board we're only talking about agriculture, I see and here we're only talking about agriculture, which I don't ignore, but that's really how it should be understood as a business branch. Why am I saying that the Water Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry should be present? Because in the last two years, 79 laws have been passed by an emergency procedure in this area, and all for the reasons of the floods that hit Serbia in 2014. So, I expect and expect that there will be people here who own the waters, take care of the waters and the “Serbian” for example, who then told us, during these floods, that only God can help us. So that doesn't happen, I'm asking for a more serious approach. So this law on changes and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters cannot be discussed without people running the waters, because these are things that affect one another. We can't sail from the shores, from the ports, from the hydrotechnical objects in the river bed. But most importantly, this is the port land I have seen, the amendments often mention it, and Mr. Djuric mentions it in his amendment. The amendments were rejected, 60 and some amendments were barely accepted. However, this port land is the biggest problem. This was turned aside by Mrs Verica Barac, in her address to Boris Tadic, that it is a great shame to privatise port land and that it will leave lasting consequences. It is a sin of previous authorities, however, which has prevented the current authorities from correcting the sin since 2012, but has relied on it and moved on with looting privatisations. In perspective, it's Luka Novi Sad, who's the only one left unprivatized. Mrs. Mihajlovic, you were on time when we discussed this law in principle, saying that you were sure that you would be walking "Belgrade on Water". You have stated that we can be happy and happy that Prime Minister Vukic has contributed to making Tisa River an international waterway. I'll also commend his activity. On that occasion, however, you did not say that as soon as "Belgrade on Water" was implemented, some elements of the project would no longer be a waterway. So we get Tisa as a waterway, we lose Sava as a waterway. For this very reason, I felt that those who run the waters should be present here and worry about the maintenance of the river waterways. Building certain parts of the project will significantly endanger the Sava River as a waterway. So, this tower in the middle of the riverbed that I'm not going to talk about right now, either aesthetically or the functionality of that facility, but only about the factor of disrupting the Sava River, will be a major distraction factor for ships, ship maneuvers, barges and defenses against ice. The bridge provided for in the project cannot satisfy the technical characteristics of the waterway bridge. That's exactly clear rules, I'm not going to go into technical details now, but we need a range between the pillars of the bridge to be to make it happen, to make it an international path for us by 50 meters on that project. So, you may be walking on "Belgrade on Water", Tisa is likely, or as I hear it already is, to be an international waterway, but Sava will no longer be an international waterway. These are inadmissible things, and that is why I believe that these laws should be passed by all the ministries to which the problem is concerned. So, no transport infrastructure on river water and inland waters can be without consultation and active presence of the Water Directorate and all those dealing with the Water Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5456	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5457	First of all, when I listened to you, honourable messengers, in the end, I simply wrote down what you said, a man just doesn't know what you said. So, from everything you could mix up, I apologize, I must say, until it seems to me that at all, this law, whose amendments we're considering today, you haven't even looked at it, because you've looked at it and you've at least seen the debate or at least heard the debate in principle, then you could also hear that we're not engaged in robbery privatisations, that this law doesn't allow the land in the ports to be privatised, land and infrastructure. I don't know how many times I've said it, but I'm always ready to say it again, and what I'm saying right now is mostly because of people who might be watching us, and they think we're some kind of government dealing with it, which is not true, so the land can't be privatized. It's set exactly. Secondly, you also said that we would build a tower and stuff in the middle of the waterway. So, I'm inviting you together to take a walk when all this is over, and I think all those who can imagine a waterway today, if they think they're going to build a tower in the middle of the waterway, I think they're probably laughing sweetly. But because of you, as a person who is a graduate architect of architecture, I really think we should know certain concepts. You've also made the same story about the water industry and about the floods and about what's really called the depth of the waterway and I'm actually a waterway and jobs that the Waterway Directorate is doing in general and the approvals it gives and it deals with with navigation, gauze for ships, etc. So if we need to talk to the whole law again, let's talk, but don't put things out in front of the citizens of Serbia that aren't right. Once again, I apologize, but I have to take this opportunity, and I have also heard here that we will now, as the previous MP said before you, pass the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5458	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5459	I'm sorry, so we'll pass the law. We don't pass laws. We make laws together with all partners, therefore, all the directives that are related in any sense to this law have participated in the making of laws. After all these discussions, it means, at a session of the Government, Parliament, etc. And precisely because the laws don't go into someone's private and personal interests but in the interests of the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, that's why these laws really apply, unlike those of all of us who have passed the laws obviously for their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5460	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I am obliged to respond to the call of one of my colleagues. So we never discussed some kind of robbery privatisation on that committee. I've held on to it as much as she has, but as we're talking about robbery privatisations, we could also talk about robbery bankruptcys, let's say we talk about 14 bankruptcys, talk about the company "Brothers Karic", about astronomical fees, we can talk about "Belgrade a new path", so we can talk about "Stankom", "Delta legal". Well, we can talk about who in bankruptcy has been sweetened in Secera "Dimitrija Tucovic", how cheated workers are, how those poor people who have lost their dwellings in Delta Legal and Stancom have been cheated. We could've talked about these robberies when my colleague said that I wasn't a part of the agenda and that she was. As for the waterways on the Sava, and "Beograd on the Water", it is reported that "Belgrade on the Water" will stop the Sava waterway, I do not believe, I believe that experts know far better than some can. I don't know where she got it from, and if she saw it in cards, beans or balls, but I believe that Sava will still be a waterway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5462	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5463	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 107 and Article 106, too. This morning, you interrupted Parliament member Branko Stamenkovic and said that insult is not allowed, and you allow this kind of personal address. Applying various arches to MPs in this room depending on whether they are in position or opposition is simply wrong. This isn't even the subject of talking about things that the gentleman doesn't know about. Of course, I'm proud of all the things I've done in bankruptcy, because I've protected people and protected their rights. So this is simply not a topic. You shouldn't let this talk at all. This is an insult to the MPs of the people. Your task is to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and not to allow such things and take your word as expressly as you took the word of MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'd like you to hold on to that. These things aren't allowed. Indeed, I do not understand how it is possible for the ruling majority to be so sensitive that when we talk about the subject, even if what is said is wrong, it can be spoken of, but is immediately passed on to insult, to belittle, to tell the truth about people. You shouldn't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5464	Now, Mr. Radulovich, to learn, because it seems to me that this entire term will teach you. You should know that Mr. Risticevic was given the right to reply because your colleague, from your parliamentary group, had a certain way, which he took to him in an offensive manner, addressed as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. In his response, he used the same argument used by your colleague as she attacked him with one difference, with one very large difference, my colleague Risticevic had the right to reply, and my colleague had no right to address the chairman of the board and I allowed it. If I have violated the rights of one's own, here I have violated the rights of the ruling majority towards the opposition and put MPs who do not support the government in a privileged position, and that bothers you. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: You can't say what comes to your mind. Sir, there are stenograms. You can't just talk, stenograms exist. ) Mr. Radulovich, you did not get the word, so let us continue to work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: How does the Rules of Procedure? Same as you, Mr. Radulovich. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: On whose show in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic? ) To your exposure. Please return to your seat, and every MP... (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Please explain to me on what basis does the gentleman receive the word by the Rules of Procedure? ) On the basis of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it at me and let me work. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Don't work, that's the thing. The gentleman spoke of himself and now he's advocating the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Radulovic, in accordance with Article 109, I give you a warning. The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5465	I'm advertising 103, 106, 108 and 109. Mr. Chairman, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the part of 103, which decidently says – when someone abuses the right of the Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to advertise that injury and therefore I advertise by thinking that my colleague Radulović has misused this right and that, in accordance with the 7th and 8th position, you must reject the time of the parliamentary group that he has misused. About article 106, I think he was interrupting me from saying it. You have given him a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I must warn you that at this session, he already has two warnings and measures to take the words and the next time he hurts the Rules of Procedure, and when you give him a warning, it requires a disfellowshipping measure from the session. Either withdraw the warning measure, which I would rather accept or ask my colleague to leave the gym since the disturbance after taking away the words, that disrupting the work of the National Assembly requires if you give a new measure, requires a distance from the session. That's not what I'm talking about, I'm telling you straight. It's time for the citizens to see who the gentleman is, but either withdraw the warning and give the measure you have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5466	My colleague Risticevic, I'm going to check with the service about these warnings now that it's been a few days, as it seems. It is that I, Mr Radulovic and his MPs, look a little bit more through my fingers because their goal is to show that they are more written, more educated, more cultural than any other MP, which is of course not true. So I have a much higher degree of tolerance to show the other MPs and citizens of Serbia what they really are. Otherwise, my colleague Risticevic, now what I have been told from the service, earlier warning measures apply only to the day when they are spoken. So now we're going with a new circle, so the Management Board is going to have a lot of work to do. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5467	Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are Mr Arsic's witnesses of this as well as many colleagues here who are now members of the SNS that in 2000, in a political sense, the surface was washed up by all the sage and mud that was called DOS. Also, you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, were then, as much as my political experience and memory served me, the pale shadow of Miroljub Labus, the carryer of a bag or something like that. As far as this law is concerned, I expected from you Mrs. Mihajlović, as you boast everywhere and in every place that you are extremely competent for the resort that you are leading, not only to come out with some cosmetic changes of this law, to remember again the fourth time in a row or second time, you have inherited from your predecessors this manner, to make certain cosmetic changes. I believe, Mr Arsic, that the National Assembly should accept this amendment sent by colleagues, and especially because of the second position of Article 2 which says that the technical maintenance of the national waterways referred to in Article 13 of this Law is carried out by an authorised legal entity for the technical maintenance of the national waterway, etc. First, because of the fact that no waterway in Serbia today is safe, and I will look back on the problem of West Morava, not only because of the fact that in the village where my father came from, it is the village of Katrga on the coast of West Morava, but throughout the West Morava, as well as in the Municipality of Cačak, as well as in Tristenik, the locals are facing a major problem. The vast majority of citizens, Madam Minister, have lost their assets, precisely because after 2000 "Serbia" are not strategically and technically equipped to maintain these water flows. Western Morava, if such care continues, I also spoke about it when Velimir Ilic was a minister, so that there would be no confusion, so when I drew attention to him that she had already changed one part of her course, that not only had there been property that was my inheritance and my ancestors, but also other locals of the village of Katrg and other villages in the stream of the river. Now we're going to have a situation, believe me, in two years' time, that it can happen because of such erosion of the river's crust, and I believe that the case with many others is due to this very non-preservation of mud and sage and everything that happens here, and they have nothing to do, that the river will flow in the midst of the village. Why are the entrusted and project jobs entrusted to the directorate, and now you want to give it to certain legal entities that have a license to do so, and not invest strategically in the "Serbian" that were destroyed after 2000 when that dossage came to the surface, the beginning of their destruction? I think it's high time for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass a strategic law that will deal with this issue, because we dream of the fact that Big Morava, mentioned this morning by counterpart Alexic, has a fruitful flow in a way that is useful to the state, I don't believe, unless we use some strategic future partnership with the People's Republic of China, which may have invested in such a thing, because it hasn't been back a few decades, and it was over 100 years ago. Since I don't have any more time, I believe that in the future you will deal with this issue, but I expect more that it will deal with some future government, because this one obviously with you in that ministry is not capable of it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5468	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5469	Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow MPs, well, I asked for a word more when the previous proposal was on the amendment concerning the erasure of Article 2, which says to delete the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on inland waterways. So, the promoters of such an amendment have tried in one political way that the whole topic relating to inland waterways, to water traffic, to replace the topic relating to water economy and to the part that is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. So, the topic that deals with waterways and water traffic and our international obligations, especially when we talk about waterways, the Danube or Sava River, we trade for a story about coastal, coastal arrangements, defending against floods. So that's the first ignorance that came from the promoter himself when we talked about this amendment. As far as waterways and waterways are concerned, it should be said here that as a country, we are simply very far behind in this area for countries that really go out on international rivers and are simply in water traffic. After 2000, when Serbia was in a situation to develop even water traffic, it simply did not. It found the situation that there was a Plovdiv route as one federal public institution at the time when there was a federal state, with 250 ships of an average age of 30 to 50 and such an institution was meant to support not only employees and sailors who were engaged in the maintenance of the waterway and the marking of the international waterway which is our international obligation, i.e. under the International Convention on the Danube Strategy, which was otherwise signed in 1948, where Serbia and depositary of such an international convention. It should be said that from then on, Serbia has not been in a situation economically or humanely to follow a general step in the development of internal waterways. Why? Because if you look at today's ports such as Budapest and Vienna, you see what essential countries are dealing with the development of internal waterways, not to mention that we are also one of the signatories of the initiative at all levels, starting with parliamentarians, to executive bodies and institutions and representatives of the autonomous province, etc. Danube strategies, one of our international obligations, which in the future needs to essentially enable us to really deal with water traffic in the way Hungary deals, as Austria does. These obligations indicate that the waterway must have certain characteristics and gauges. This means that internal morphology must be according to certain standards in order to allow ships sailing through Serbia's internal waterways to safely reach, say, the Black Sea across the Danube. Thus, we have an obligation to maintain and perform certain morphological and hydro-building facilities in that waterway and we have a duty to be prepared for it. Obviously, that state is not ready and is not ready to put old machinery into operation like this. That is why there are certain companies and state and semi-social, former social enterprises that are now companies that work and operate and these kinds of jobs and can report to certain types of competitions that the ministry will call and that this is one way of doing the work that we have been given in certain ways, in international contexts, and on the other hand, that our companies, who are really doing this job, not only marking and rescheduling the waterway, but also the part that relates to the functioning of the winterer when it comes to water traffic and our obligations in the ports at all, that they can do so. That's why the only way to play one game, and that's a public call, and that in that game and in that competition, all those who can do this job in a certain way. It's overcoming simply our internal problems of functioning the personnel that exist and what we need to do and what we need to strive to be countries with developed inland waterways. Why are we saying this? If we train our waterways to operate international traffic, if we increase the number of ships that will go through our international rivers, we first provide bigger jobs in ports, provide taxis and fees and so on, we fill the budget in a better and more efficient way. Let me not tell you about the fact that certain developed European countries use their waterways as one of the best types of traffic and the cheapest types of traffic and thus, we must also develop one of the corridors called Corridor 7, when we talk about the Danube waterway. We are leading to the development of a multi-model traffic in addition to these corridors relating to road, rail and air traffic. Thus, by raising economic activity in the ports, we are also raising the economic activities of the country itself and this growth that is seen at this end of our operation every year through certain economic activities, which are otherwise measured by the number of finished products and services that are compared to last year, is best viewed practically through the operation of our ports. Why am I saying this now? Because the amendment, which has been proposed, to delete this bill at all, speaks of ignorance of things in society and ignorance at all when we talk about water traffic and the need for these laws to be changed, perfected and set up in a completely normal and legitimate way, how it works in developed countries that have the possibility that through international rivers, such as Serbia, which also has Danube and Sava, can simply increase its economic activities. That is why this amendment really does not need to be accepted, especially when it comes to erasing such a legal proposal. When we talk about a proposal for an amendment, which some MPs cannot accept the fact that there is competition in the market, when it comes to the business of carrying out the hydrotechnical works themselves, then it should be said that simply such a type of work is not able to be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the state as it was now. Because of these inability in technical and technological terms, the very equipment they would be working with simply leads to the fact that such an amendment cannot be accepted, on the one hand. On the other hand, if we advocate that certain appropriations from the budgets we call and state aid for certain issues given to the monopoly in a particular sphere, as it has been in this sphere so far, it is simply contrary to EU standards and directives that we stand for by 2012. That is why there is a real justification that such amendments should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5470	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5471	Thank you, Chairman. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. We've heard a lot in the past few minutes in the debate so far, we just haven't heard any possible argument as to why we should delete Article 2. No one's even tried to offer an explanation. There's talk of bridges, there's talk of "Belgrade on Water", about towers, railways, corridors, roads, just not about what's the agenda point and what's supposed to be the subject of an amendment that reads, I repeat, because of citizens, it's "expunged." The worst part is that we heard it from a party representative who is the first in it, who most advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure when an MP comes out of the agenda topic, and we haven't heard anything from her in minutes. All, as the minister said, and that we are in the principle debate, the elements she counted and what she was talking about are not covered by this bill. So, I would just once again underline what is most important, and as regards this amendment, so the amendment to Article 2 which reads "is deleted", I repeat, a very creative amendment of Article 2 which changes the existing, i.e. the current member of the 14th law, which refers to the regulation of the possibility of certain transactions from the Water Roads Directorate's work, i.e. trust in companies, private companies. To what end? In order to make it more efficient to carry out our work, in order to make the Benefit Directorate for Waterways, in order to change something better. I can agree that the results so far may not have been the best. Now we're trying to do something good with these changes, and they're suggesting erasing it. They're not making any single argument again. I do not see a single reason why they would delete this article, or why they would not support the law, but the proposed amendments and the proposed solutions. That's why I'm calling for us to pass the law in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5472	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I felt the need to report for this amendment. Actually, I've been waiting for the word for an hour. The SPS Group considers that this amendment should be rejected. First of all, I will also rely on the discussion in principle. One of the key changes and additions is right now a member of the 14th that predicts a waterway system for the reputation of the Paradise plum being introduced in Serbia. I think this is an extremely good solution, and it is also necessary to provide an opportunity for the Directorate to monitor, in accordance with its operations and plans and to monitor the activities concerning the maintenance of waterways, on the one hand, but also to allow the Ministry to carry out administrative supervision when it comes to this area. As early as 2010, this law was passed. I believe that these amendments and additions to the laws are not cosmetics either, and they are in line with our further harmonisation of the legal rules with EU rules, and therefore this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5474	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5475	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have come to say that I will be against this amendment, as I have against the policies of those who have come down to this kind of creativity, those who had nothing concrete to say, to add to this bill and those who have led Serbia for almost a decade with the idea of introducing a market economy into Serbia, with the idea of privatising everything that exists in Serbia, and today they are against the private sector. One of the geniuses who spoke about this amendment, the promoter, who only supported the private sector if he saw his own personal interest in it, so I'm sorry that he's not in the O.R. now, so let me remind him of the Milk Republic, a company owned by 450 dinars of founding capital that supplied to dairy products the Clinical Center in Novi Sad, so I can remind him of his former president of the party, one of the former, who, during the floods during their government, was deeply concerned about the health of chickens. It was the central theme of the political group at the time, to worry about how chickens were, not how the citizens were affected by the floods. It is a beautiful metaphor in which they take care of Serbian citizens, Serbia's interest. On the one hand, "Milk Republic", and it is good that this private sector is introduced into business within the public sector, and on the other hand, when this topic is on the agenda, they have nothing to ask for. I think it's very good that the private sector enters this sphere and that we have competition when it comes to this. Why not? I am personally against the monopoly of the state wherever possible, and that is why I will support this bill. It is good for Serbian citizens today to see in the Serbian Parliament the difference between our policies, more precisely between us and them, between those who have politics, among those who are the only ones who know how to say "wipe" in order to get a few minutes to attack on completely pointless things their political opponents. You can use time in the Assembly for a different kind of demagogy, for empty stories, you can say whatever you want, but it doesn't mean that if you're saying you're telling the truth. We have heard so many lies today in the Serbian Parliament, we hear so many lies both in previous days and the citizens of Serbia see it well, and they know that the estimates, and that who ruled in Vojvodina, were assessed by the Serbian citizens on 24 April by 99% of the municipalities in Vojvodina giving support to Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, and that is the fact. Unfortunately, some of that truth cannot escape. I can see they're having a hard time, the pain's great. Where did they worry about how Serbia could protect against floods? Twelve years in power were in Serbia, 20 years in Vojvodina, and what did they do to protect the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia from flooding? Nothing. And all that happened later is the result of their unhappiness, because they thought it wasn't a terrible thing for Serbia to drown in floods, because they're making a parallel with beer. It's no big deal about drowning in beer, so let's also let the citizens of Serbia drown in floods. Once again, I call on these great experts to try to be more creative, to erase it, sometimes replace it with some concrete idea, a concrete proposal, because it is the only way for Serbian citizens to then assess two policies. This is how we have one policy offered by SNS and Aleksandar Vucic and we have another idea of repossessing and kidnapping Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5476	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5477	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: How am I before her? Please, colleague Arsic, time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5478	Mr. Sarovic, you're not in parliament since yesterday, show the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5479	I'm sorry, but I did answer before you did, as you saw. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted and you, Mr. Arsic, should know that. You know I wouldn't have picked up otherwise, but I answered because the MPs of the ruling coalition are breaking the Rules of Procedure again. You always need to respect someone for the former regime, and you yourself were part of that regime. I understand that someone who hasn't been in any party before, but those who were members of the DS, here are the people to confirm, it's absurd that we haven't changed anything like that. The second thing, the argument that the amendment is deleted is not creative, it's completely pointless. What are you going to do more specifically than wipe out? Here, next to you is your party chief Aleksandar Martinovic, no one in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism has submitted any more amendments to the vote – it is deleted. And look how far he's come. So, you see, times change, you sit there a little bit, you sit there, you try to respect the principles of parliamentary struggle. The amendment is deleted completely legitimate. Right, Mr. Arsic? You, too, have often joined me in glorious radical times, signed these amendments, and here you have reached the post of Vice President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5480	Yeah, but I had an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5481	The explanation is excellent, as you've seen in our amendments, it always does. So make sure that if you've already taken power from the yellows, then at least you don't take all their bad habits and their argument that led them to this miserable position they're in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5482	I thank my colleague Sarovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: I to vote. To vote, Mr. Krassic, right? It is not common for MEPs to advertise Article 106. Rules of Procedure. It's not really common. I don't understand why this amendment bothers you. This is not your amendment. It's not your amendment. Don't compare me to them. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5483	Thank you, Chairman. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. – The President of the National Assembly shall chair the sittings and shall take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I don't know what you're doing, but you don't care, at least not equally under the same arches about the application of this Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you, you took away my word this morning because I used the word lie. A fellow Filipovic twice said in his speech that members of our parliamentary group are lying. Did you sleep through it, didn't concentrate, didn't hear, I don't know, but he's certainly not the same treatment as me. He is a member of your parliamentary group and that is what was the essence of the questions I had this morning – why are there double arches? Why do you and the president have certain pets who are allowed, while the opposition, even for the slightest thing, when it tells the truth, falls at risk of being punished? Thank you and of course I want to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5484	I beg you, colleague Stamenkovic, don't pretend to be victims anymore, no one here is threatening you. No one takes away your rights, you're completely equal to the other fellow MPs. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Did she tell a lie? A fellow Radulovich, you are looking for another reminder, apparently. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: You have been asked a question. Sir, I've been given an adjudication on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to answer. What are you waiting for? (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: I am waiting for an answer to the question. I really can't help some people. Stop acting like someone is taking away some rights or giving you more rights. It's really not like that. All MPs can testify, and we can also see by the stenogram that a multiple number of times has been misused by the MPs' institute to be called a liar, a criminal or a fraud, so the word has been taken away. It wasn't taken away. I interrupted the speaker. He didn't ask a question. That's the problem. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5485	It's a business thing. Article 107, and regarding Article 27, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5486	Only 107. She is already a colleague of Stamenkovic 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5487	It was here and 106 three times, so you didn't interrupt anyone because of it, but it doesn't matter, here's article 107. This is no longer a session where a man who I can hardly say is common and who, in accordance with some of the basic principles of civil political culture, gives himself the right to call SNS MPs liars and that he alone has a monopoly on the truth, or his MPs. That's the one. [[The DJB are applauding.]] You don't have to ring Mr. Arsic. You know, Bishop Nikolai once said -- every hospital points to God, none as well as a mental hospital. That's why I have a lot of understanding about what Sasa Radulovic is doing, because he's used to stealing. He's used to making a huge profit. Since a man can no longer steal, and since the state has denied him... Now get in the way. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Chairman, what is this? ) Therefore, since a man is used to stealing, kidnapping from the people, and now there is no longer the possibility of stealing, of no longer being able to manipulate bankruptcy, of setting his best men as bankruptcy managers, of concluding his own accounting service contracts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5488	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5489	... The man apparently had a fit of severe mental pain and I, Mr. Arsic, have a complete understanding. What you should do as chairman is apply this Rules of Procedure to the fullest extent and not allow one notorious criminal to terrorize the National Assembly and destroy its dignity. (Employee throws: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5490	We're not doing business anymore. In accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a five-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) There is no rules of procedure after a break because the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to a direct injury. Since there's been a break, there's no more immediate injuries. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: You have now injured the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm hurt? I can't right now, I haven't done any more legal work, colleague Sarovic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) (I Nemanja Sarović, from the post: By Business. ) Together, MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Ask for a word. Take out the card and put it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5492	Mr. Arsic, you just hurt the Rules of Procedure. You're not from yesterday at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This must be your fifth, sixth term, and you know very well... The emissaries are getting it. )......................................................................................................... Article 27, after obtaining a SNS gentleman, Article 27. You, Mr. Arsic, are obliged to give me your word when I report to the Rules of Procedure. You can't judge, read minds, throw beans or I don't know what you're doing and know what I mean. You did an injury because you didn't give me your word, because the Rules of Procedure was injured. I answered the phone immediately after the injury was done. Just because you took a break of two minutes or three minutes doesn't mean that this break can erase everything that's happened. Aleksandar Martinovic has been insulting the National Assembly for what time. What I'm particularly interested in, if Mr. Martinovic claims Radulovic is used to stealing, why does Aleksandar Vukic suggest in government people who are used to stealing? He was stealing before he was Vucic's minister. Last time you replied that it wasn't Vučićev, but Dacicev, so Radulović came out to say – Dačića I didn't even meet, I was suggested by Aleksandar Vukic. Come on, give us a full story. I really think that as well as the MPs and the public of Serbia and the members of your parliamentary group, what is the secret link? How do you become a minister? Why did Aleksandar Vukic suggest Radulovic, who is used to stealing, become a minister? Let's hear it. Here, everybody wants to know. Look how carefully they listen. Let's hear how Radulovic, who likes to steal, became Vucic's minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5493	Time. Let's get in line. Article 112, and there's an institute to establish order at the session when we get to a situation like this, to set a break. According to Article 103, it is said – right after the injury was done. I didn't do any legal shop after the break so I could do the injury. The third thing, as far as Alexander Vukic and Mr Radulovic are concerned, I witnessed here, as vice president of the National Assembly, that they were even abducted about who was the worst solution to Alexander Vukic. Look, they're taking it away, so I don't know that fascination with Alexander Wolfich, but I can't help you here. If they're being kidnapped about it, indeed, it's already becoming a hopeless case. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5494	Nemanja Sarovic is the best solution, as you can see, therefore, the better solution Vojislav Seselj could not find, but I am surprised that this best solution does not know the Constitution and does not know the Law on Government. So, it's not the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government that proposes, it's what the Prime Minister does. That Sasa Radulovic was a bad minister tells the fact that in December 2013, he had to leave the ministry, because he was disastrously leading that portfolio and did absolutely nothing to solve the accumulated problems in all those state-owned enterprises in which he teaches us lessons from day to day. It's about Sasha Radulovic. Now, what I'm interested in, what is the secret connection between Nemanja Sarovic, Sasa Radulovic, Jesic, Kena, what is it that connects all these people and what is it that Mr. Sarovic, the bastard, right, Savina town, what brings them together? What is it that connects all these people, who allegedly belong to different ideological directions, one are nationalists, the other are for Russians, the fifth are for Americans? The only thing I see is that they're against SNS and against Alexander Vukic. It's the only point of merger. What black Russia, what America, what ODKB, NATO Packs, etc. They don't care about that. Nor do they understand them, nor do they know them in the West, nor do they take the East seriously. The only thing they care about is that they look at every possible way if they can hit SNS somewhere, hit on Alexander Wolfich. What black ideology, what political programs, what consistency or anything else. So, I would like Nemanja Sarovic to explain to me the secret link between Sasa Radulovic, Jesic, him, Zoran Zivkovic and all others who belong to the coalition against Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5495	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5496	Mr. Martinovic, you really surprise me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5497	Please, just without a personal address. I'll tell my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5498	This is a replica. I'm right, Mr. Arsic, you've explained it quite nicely many times. You, when you're in a dead end, Mr. Martinovic, then you're trying to turn the subject around, but you're not even a pretty good spin master like Aleksandar Vukic. So if you think there's a secret connection, go ahead, take it out. You have unlimited time here, you can do whatever you want. The problem is, you're the chairman of the Administrative Board. You are the head of those who proposed, a few days ago, punishment to the MPs of the people. I was against it. The position of the SRS is that parliamentary democracy cannot be built by penalties. If it could have been built in this manner, decent Serbia, which you are talking about, would have been done by Gordana Comic. She gave hundreds and hundreds of reminders to the MPs of the SRS, among whom you, in your glorious times, were also you. Therefore, you are the one who claims Radulovic to be a thief, that he is used to stealing. Don't you talk about the Constitution, so you say – it is known that the Prime Minister is proposing. No, it's a coalition government and in a coalition government each has a number of ministers that it proposes. And no one gets involved in that, no one. Did Dacic tell you who the SNS minister would be? Of course not. You may be Dacic, but he certainly isn't. According to this, Radulovic may have been formally in the Government of Ivica Dacic, but also in the Government of Ivica Dacic, the Prime Minister, informal, was the most powerful Alexander Vukic. He's the one who suggested it, and we heard it, and we know it. Here you go, if you have anything to say about my relationship with anyone, because I'm not the one who beat someone after the election to get a censorship, who gave him a census. That's what you did. You from the SNS, along with Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5499	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5500	I cannot get an answer about the secret connection between Nemanje Sarovic, Sasa Radulovic, MP of the DS. Obviously, Mr. Sarovic wants to continue to deal with political law, as he did at the board of directors' session, because they, ladies and gentlemen, have obviously had some agreement, whether coalition or silent, to defend each other. I was in one situation that I had people against me who are for NATO and people who are against NATO, people who are for Russia and people who are against Russia, but they are all united about being bound by political hatred for SNS and Alexander Vukic. At that session of the Administrative Board, a colleague, whom Mr. Sarovic was heartily defending, said at least 50 times that I was lying, that I was a liar, that at the meeting of the National Assembly, lies were presented, and that only those from that MP group were sufficient to tell the truth, and that in the National Assembly there was no telling the truth, and those who were telling the truth received a warning. I can only come to one conclusion, that it's not really a political party, but a sect, because the sect thinks that there's a monopoly on the truth and that no one else has the right to speak and that no one else has the right to express their opinion except for a member of the cult who says that the truth is only on his side. That's the problem. (Tatjana Macura, from the place: How are you not ashamed? I don't know why they're getting nervous, Mr. Arsic, so many, there's plenty of them. Here, you see, they're coming over from all over, a little bit of rustoli, a little bit of what's for NATO, a little bit of these, a little bit of them, but, as you can see, they're all hitting on the SNS parliamentary group. So Nemanja Sarovic doesn't have to tell us what the secret link is. It's a very simple relationship. We hate Alexander Vukic, we hate SNS, it's our only policy. We don't have any other policies. (Tatyana Macura, from the city: shame on you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5501	First, I ask my fellow Members to read Article 106. Rules of Procedure, Section 3, that's about throwing, and some fellow MPs, especially these new, new parliamentary groups, learn that when you strike a blow, expect someone to return it to you. Not without it, it happens every day in the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Then I'll redo the break. I'm asking the applicants if they want a word. Let me at least make one shop, at least one. Since no one is answering for the word after the amendment, National MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic together submitted to the amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5503	Mr. Arsic, member 27 has been injured in connection with Articles 111, 112, 113. You have previously called on Article 112 and said that if the chairman of the National Assembly cannot hold order at the session, he will set a break until order is established. I agree with that, it's your right, but there was no mess here. A completely normal parliamentary debate took place between representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition. There was absolutely no reason to set a break. We didn't grab each other's necks. We didn't fight. We didn't get to know each other. We didn't do anything to indicate that you couldn't maintain order. It's about something else. You tried to protect Alexander Martinovic. It is not honorable, it is not knightly to interrupt a series of replicas after who caused the replicas and after who belongs to the ruling coalition. If he's the one who started it all, if he's the one who's accusing me of some secret relationship with the American ambassador. It's really very interesting and it needs to be done as often as possible, you know. I don't mind, but it's part of a normal parliamentary struggle. What are the reasons you're taking a break? When they're among other parliamentary groups, you don't do it. But it's obvious that when it comes to Serbian radicals, and you know, we've always been gentlemen, it's also Mr. Martinovic, then there's nothing that could suggest a mess, but it's the most culturally possible, most argumentsable and let us finally get to the bottom of it. We don't live that much. If we have to, here, determine right away to work after 18 hours, all colleagues will agree, but once we get to the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5504	Just, uh, 111 and 113? Did I hear that? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Articles 111, 112 and 113 in conjunction with Article 27) Mr. Sarovic, 111 refers to the distance measures from the session and maintaining order at the session. Article 108. – on the agenda of the National Assembly, the chairman, or president of the National Assembly. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: Was there a riot? ) E, now, colleague Sarovic, I, if I were to go about applying a member who determines that the MP is being told, that is 109 who approached, who spoke before he asked for a word, which, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, if the interruption of a speaker who is directly speaking, if he uses swearing, offensive expressions, if it is facts, is in breach of order by other procedures. Then you have the application of a member that it's forbidden to throw to the MP while he's exhibiting, etc. So, with these breaks, I'd like to save the Members of the People's Parliament, to proceed with the sentence. I am not saying that the MPs of the SRS have met the condition, they are not - on the contrary, but others are. Some others are. You say, "They don't need it either." I just wanted to let you know, you weren't an MP at the time, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, got a warning. It's the chairman's thing. Don't take away that rightful chairman. According to the amendment, who's answering? Sonja Pavlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5505	Mr. Arsic, under Article 108, you are required to deal with order in the session of the National Assembly. I do not know how you allowed the unscrupulous member of Article 107(2), which states that the direct address of the MP to the other People's Parliament, the use of offensive expressions, and the fact and assessment of other persons's private lives are not allowed. From the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, I have learned, and I respect that only the chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm talking to you. Mr. Martinovic has brought forth a series of lies, but I won't blame him, it's his ID card to lead the discussion. I won't mind Mr. Risticevic either, when I reported behind him for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which he also brought out a series of lies, and I'm not allowed a replica, it's his ID card. But I really must blame you for letting it take so long, that you insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure and not interrupting something that is not suitable for this high house. Among other things, you keep calling for us to be new MPs, to be ignorant. Don't forget one thing, we may be ignorant in the mission and we will soon learn these procedures, but we are very trained in meeting all Members who have been passively watching here for 25 years. We're ahead of you. I was also not satisfied with the reply from Minister Mihajlovic, who gave it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5506	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5507	But you didn't allow me the replica, or the possibility of asking for clarification. Maybe she could explain it to me all the way. You didn't give me the chance. I ask you to continue to conduct this session as appropriate and to respect that member 103, as well as all the other members, and to indeed do so...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5508	I appreciate that. I understood what that was all about. But for an hour now, I've been trying to get the session back into the debates in particular. If you are already advertising the Rules of Procedure, you are just contributing to moving on as usual, i.e. Let's talk about the Rules of Procedure, get involved in a circle of replicas, etc. You've thrown more than once, let's say I took someone's word away. I didn't. Far from it, because in order to take someone's word away, first I have to give one warning, then another warning, then taking the words away, then moving away from the session. I'm a colleague who misbehaved in parliament interrupted her exposure, so I don't apply these very parts of the Rules of Procedure. In order to preserve my dignity, I shall at the same time preserve my fellow MPs from entering that part of the word-restraint. So, here, from 12 o'clock, it's 13 o'clock and 10 minutes, we're still trying to get away with the breaks from the replicas and advertising of the Rules of Procedure. As I see that fellow Martinovic has already raised the Rules of Procedure, he will now have his word, so that we will finally continue to work on the agenda point, not on the advertising. Here you go, colleague Martinovic. It'll take two sides to co-operate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5509	I'm suggesting a violation of article 27, Mr. Arsic. I don't know if you were supposed to apply Article 111 to get me out of session or Article 113 so you could give me a warning, but it doesn't matter. I've had my time too, so it wouldn't be my first time. I want to say something else that's much more important, about what the esteemed colleague from the Movement said, enough is enough. So we from the Serbian Progressive Party are just making up something about Sasha Radulovic. September 23rd. In 2011, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, therefore, was in 2011, nor was Aleksandar Vukic in power, nor was the Serbian Progressive Party in power, the Agency for Licensing of Banks Managers punished Sasa Radulovic of Belgrade, number of licenses 155-0469, the measure of public notice and fines of 100,000 dinars, because he committed a more serious violation of his duties by carrying out his duties as bankruptcy director. Among other things, the gentleman who applauds was co-founder of the company d.o.o. The "E-business Service" and the company concluded the contract as a bankruptcy manager in some 14, 15 companies. He concluded a contract with his own company where he was co-founder, to extract profits from bankrupt companies. He can wave his hands now, he can throw it at us, now he can walk past me like he did the other day, say -- cattle, garbage, monkeys, it's all right, but I'm in the hands of the Agency for Licensing of Banks and by that solution is the gentleman who applauds here, performs the performance and I congratulate him on it, he's doing well, he's being punished by giving public notice and a fine of 100,000 dinars, because among other things, he's with himself, so he's done his own work. Every firm that was in bankruptcy, and where he was a bankruptcy manager, had to close a deal with his own firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5510	I thank my colleague Martinovic. I believe that you have misused the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, so that these two minutes and 30 seconds will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. Now it's your turn to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5511	Mr Arsic, article 107 has been injured, which says the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5512	There's already been a fellow 107, directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5513	Please, allow me, I understand that Mr. Martinovic is currently a striker of the regime, but I don't know who gives you the right to take Mr. Radulovic up. Is he a criminal? Is he a thief? Why are you using this in a debate for day-to-day political purposes? Come on, let's go after him in accordance with the law. Come on, let's take away his good immunity. How you who are the regime speak of someone persistently as a thief, and do nothing to suit the law. This means that the regime you belong to, the Alexander Vukic regime not only proposes to the thieves for ministers but to subsequently abolize them and to advocate against them responding. Whether Mr. Radulovic is a thief or not, let's decide the competent state authority. It's not you who will proclaim it. If you already have that knowledge, come on, use that declared fight against corruption to live in action. Never a bigger fight against corruption, and no criminal, no tycoon, no thief in prison. Well, who are you fighting? Come on, once you finally do something you're talking about. What you're doing is embarrassing. If you treat the opposition this way, you can only expect the opposition to be worse and worse. You're actually spreading the smoke screen, there's nothing to show, there's nothing to talk about, that you have ten laws on the agenda here, so you wouldn't waste time on this. It takes time for you to show how much better you are from someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5514	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't want to make a warning, there's no need. Otherwise, this was also a replica, but we're not going to apply Article 109. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5515	I'm advertising article 109 since you didn't give the notice. Otherwise, for the sake of the citizens, I must say, what Martinovic is doing has lifted the court since it has brought a corrupt bankruptcy agency against which I have fought my entire career. What is worst of all is also known by Aleksandar Vukic, who gives instructions to Martinovic, and Mr Martinovic knows it, however, no matter how they wave with this suspended paper, to repeat it once more. So, the harshest accusations, the harshest lies, the untruths being spoken here, the MPs being insulted, you're not responding to the chairman. Just now, the same MP was saying, it's from a criminal through a thief, indeed, completely pointless, eight times. Then you can't say you have the same arches. You don't have the same arches. No one in the opposition has said a word, say, about MP Martinovic or any other MP from the post. You're not supposed to let this happen, so I guess it's that clear to you. You can't hide behind this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5516	Comrade Radulovich, you've got to be kidding me. I have no other explanation. I consider this a joke. Alexander Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5517	I'm advertising Article 107, Mr. Arsic. Everyone has the right to an attorney and Mr. Sasa Radulovic, a better lawyer than Nemanja Sarovic, probably couldn't find. As for who is fighting crime, who is not fighting crime, etc., I hope that Mr. Sarovic was informed that the verdict to Miroslav Miskovic was given, and no one in Serbia should have done so by now. She did the power led by the SNS, and we have shown in action how to fight the tycoon and against crime. As for the defenders, now we've heard the lawyer, now let's see what's going on with the defender. The defendant says the court has annulled the agency's decision to license bankruptcy managers. Here, I'll read you how it was. In 2011, Mr Radulovic was punished by the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, i.e. she gave him a public notice and gave him a fine of 100,000 dinars, and then the Administrative Court, Mr Radulovic, brought all the papers to the attention of you, the Administrative Court reached judgment 12U11801/12 of 24 September 2012, and then again again, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks of Banks Directors on 13 November 2012 brought the following solutions: to the bankruptcy director Sasa Radulovic of Belgrade, the number of licenses, and the measures of public notices and fines of 100,000 dinars for committing a more serious breach of duty. The fine of 100,000 dinars paid by the bankruptcy manager Sasa Radulovic on 26 October 2011 following the resolution of the disciplinary council of the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Which port? What ship? ) Slowly, Mr. Krasic, don't be nervous either, since 23 September 2011, is considered a settlement of fines. What's that? The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants has twice followed the ruling of the Administrative Court, issued a public notice and the fine of Saša Radulovic, among other things, is a long solution I cannot read all of, among other things, because the co-founder of the company "E-business Service" with him as a bankruptcy manager concluded agreements, i.e. agreements on the provision of accounting services.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5518	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Once again, two minutes and 30 seconds I'm taking away from your MP's time. Now I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5520	I'd like to connect this. We asked by amendment to be also in Article 3. The bill is deleted by paragraphs 6 and 7 and we've given a very precise explanation of why we're asking for these two attitudes to be erased, because what's in paragraph 7, that power already exists in the law. So in that first text of the law, Article 7 paragraph 6 has the same text as what you have suggested. We don't think that's necessary, a team before you're practically changing the bill for the first time. In many other members, these are the second or third changes. So, for the sake of particularity, it is known that this refers to the powers given to the minister that he prescribes something. We believe that, as far as this authority is concerned in Section 7, it already exists in the law, there is no need for this second place to be built on, and as far as this authority is concerned, under Section 6, this more corresponds to the authority and the duty of the Government to regulate some of its sublegal acts. It refers to the criteria for the use of funds. Now, I'd just like to make a connection between this member and the previous amendment. There may not be any direct connection, but in the previous amendment, the previous article, which was the subject of discussion, developed one discussion, I must say completely unnecessary. Why unnecessary? Well, and the existing regulations did not prohibit the Water Directorate from certain waterway maintenance tasks to the companies to do so. This possibility has existed since 2000, when the Law on Public Enterprises and Activities was adopted of general interest. Of course, such a possibility exists in some recent laws that have been passed, but they are not the subject of this interest. What exactly is this about? Very rarely, state authorities or para-state authorities can deal with economic activity, and technically, these waterway maintenance operations, as one of the MPs from the DS said, are cleaning, creating an appropriate depth of water for the smooth operation of water traffic in a technical sense, are business in the area of construction or some of the like, but also business activities, and, as a rule, something which is a directorship, a administrative organisation, should not, under the law, be engaged in economic activity. And it is good to introduce competition, and it is good to introduce the possibility of these businesses being entrusted with the legal procedure of someone who has that business authority in their registration. However, what bothered us in that previous article is that we find it totally unacceptable for surveillance jobs, as these jobs have been done, to give in to other companies. We believe that surveillance jobs should be kept in the Waterway Directorate, because in the end the directorate and guarantees the quality of all that should be done. So, classic surveillance jobs have to stay in the directorate, because it needs to be guaranteed the quality of the jobs that have been done. The Prime Minister rightly said that there was a need to distinguish between the water industry and what regulates this law, which is primarily the safety of sailing on rivers and these waterways. And many times it needs to be intervened to clear the waterway, so that traffic can be done unhindered. And so far, the Waterway Directorate has done it, if I may say so, selectively, some time if they are able, some time if they are unable, they trust someone for the right price to do the job. So I think that the big debate that's been having about what, how, if there's any possibility of abuse is impractical. The possibility of abuse always exists, I have to tell you, some kind of monopoly that the state does it should exist, but you know what it's like with monopolies, either it encourages competition, or it's a monopoly. One octrossed monopoly can guarantee that maintenance of waterways will be of quality. In order for it to be quality, it is necessary to keep surveillance in the department. As for this particular amendment to Article 3, I propose that this amendment be adopted. Don't lose anything in the text of the proposed member, don't lose anything, because what we're asking to be deleted in Section 7 is in the law. As for what is prescribed in paragraph 6, this should, by some definition, belong primarily to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is no problem to arrange it and the programme spoken of much more in the previous positions of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5521	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5522	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mihajlovic, fellow MPs, amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, which reads: "Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters shall be deleted.’. These views in the draft law read: ‘The allocation of funds for the construction and implementation of works on technical maintenance of international and inter-state waterways shall be carried out by the Waterway Directorate, on the basis of the public procurement procedure carried out in accordance with the law governing public procurement. The allocation of funds for the construction and implementation of works on the technical maintenance of national waterways shall be carried out by an authorised legal person for the technical maintenance of these national waterways on the basis of the public procurement procedure carried out, in accordance with the law governing these procurements." Article 3 provides for a more detailed arrangement of the way in which technical maintenance operations are financed and the conditions to be met by companies to which these transactions will be entrusted in public procurement procedures. We believe that the government's relationship with public resources and public money is precisely the confidence of these private legal persons. This proposal has just abolished the kind of monopoly position of the Waterway Directorate to carry out certain tasks of technical maintenance of international and inter-state waterways. Although these transactions will be entrusted to the private sector, mostly on state waterways, they will always be under the professional supervision of the Directorate, which is important. I think it's a double effect of this solution. First, budgets are released for other purposes, for example, social or other purposes and, secondly, is entrusted to the private sector to carry out public affairs with public control and control of private capital, which is in line with the negotiation process on freedom of competition. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment to Article 3 should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5523	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5524	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment refers to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on river navigation on internal waters, and it should read like this - in Article 3. The draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters of 6 and 7 are deleted. So my amendment is similar to the amendments that my predecessors have made. However, the explanation will be slightly different. The main reason is that the minister is not a competent person who can prescribe conditions that companies must meet in order to carry out the tasks of technical maintenance of waterways. Article 3 is replaced by the following: from 1 to 7 and art. From 1 to 5, they clearly determine how public procurement is carried out for waterway maintenance operations. It's normal for this procedure, I'm talking about art. From 1 to 5, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure adopts an annual technical maintenance programme that needs to be detailed, to analyse the state of the waterways, the facilities located on these waterways and fully accurate to determine the proposed measures to be taken to ensure the proper safety of these waterways, the dynamics of work and as provided for by all those members. On the basis of such adopted, very precise annual technical maintenance programme of waterways, then the Waterway Directorate should take care of the application of such a programme, i.e. the implementation of such a programme. In this respect, it organises a public procurement procedure, which normally must be, as transparent and in line with the Public Procurement Act as possible. This is extremely important, and it is quite well covered by members, i.e. from 1 to 5. Articles 6 and 7 shall be a complete contradiction with respect to these Articles. 1 to 5. In fact, attitude 6 says -- the minister prescribes closer conditions and criteria for the allocation and use of funds under Article 1. The minister can't do that. It is not his competence, and for the sake of transparency, it must not be his competence. Stav 7 says -- the minister prescribes conditions, again the minister, who must meet companies to carry out operations in the field of technical maintenance of waterways. These two attitudes are in complete contradiction with the article. From 1 to 5. That is why I have proposed, that is, our parliamentary group proposes in this amendment that these two positions be deleted. Why? Because... The 6th and 7th are in absolute contrast to the principle of labour transparency, not just the government, not just the ministries, but at all. The views of the Public Procurement Act are clearly defined, which say public works should be carried out, as tenders are being conducted, as determined by the commission, to ensure that as much objective and transparency as possible of work on public procurement and the choice of a company to carry out the work. Why are we particularly emphasising this? Because where there's no transparency, there's a door to corruption opening. We cannot say, we are present and we are aware that in this society corruption is still present and we should be everywhere, and especially in the laws that are adopted in this home, to prevent any possibility of not opening, but to open the door, but to shake, to slam the door for any possibility of corruption. Therefore, we are extremely serious about St. 6 and 7 being, not to say, very dangerous members who simply allow some of the things that this society needs to fight in principle. They're not in line with anything, especially, I'm saying, they shouldn't be one of the ministers' competences. If the minister deals with what's written in the article. 6th and 7th then he is not a minister, but he is something else, doing the work of someone else who may be two, three or five steps below him in the organisational hierarchy of the ministry. That's about the most important thing. Now, in response to the minister's reply, I may have been wrong or I didn't get it right, but I have to say I'm coming from RTB "Bor" where the eight-year cycle has just ended, one big investment cycle on a major state project that cost 450m euros and which ended in an almost infamous manner, which also the Prime Minister publicly acknowledged a week ago. And while the investment cycle lasted, we swore that everything was transparent, that everything was clear, that everything was right, that everything was going according to law and regulations, and we finally came to the conclusion that we had made the biggest economic failure in this part of Serbia. So, having this experience in front of me, not just from Bor, but probably somewhere else, but I know the situation with Bor very well, I especially want to point out that, not just what's written in art. 6 and 7, rather than at all, generally, when in this House, any law appears in this Parliament that can even smell of any failures or opening doors or the possibility of corruption, I say again, which is largely present in this society, the complete parliament must react. It doesn't matter who's sitting on the side of the parliament. I think, in that sense, it's an equal task. We must not behave twice, we must not be double arches, we must not publicly and in public appearances declare a fierce fight against corruption and a fierce fight against the possibility of any corruption and when the law comes to adoption that we may then drag some things out that can reveal the door for such a thing. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5525	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5526	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I am reporting under the amendment to Article 3 submitted by my colleagues that Article 6 and 7 of this article are being deleted, so, with reason, the minister is not a competent person who can prescribe conditions that companies must meet in order to carry out the tasks of technical maintenance of waterways. First and foremost, the amendment is not technically correct. So, the amendment is technically incorrect because it has one written error in the very explanation of the amendment. He says "longer" and I just don't know what that word is. I didn't find in the Serbian dictionary what that word means, and it's technically incorrect. Your Honor, I'd just like to ask who's competent, if he's not a minister. It's nice to hear the criticism, it's always nice to hear the criticism, because besides the criticism you get to perfection. I'd like to hear the criticism and that when our colleagues suggest that one member be deleted to give us a proposal so that they can handle it? Who would be a competent person to do all this? This is one in a series of harmful amendments, so the amendments themselves have been called their amendments, harmful. We know that there will be an adhesion of these amendments, but since we have the means against both plant and animal pests, so we have the same means of destroying the worst of such amendments, which is that in the day of voting we do not vote on such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5527	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5528	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs related to this amendment, in which the applicant in the explanation says that the minister is not a competent person who can prescribe conditions that companies must meet in order to carry out the tasks of technical maintenance of waterways. In doing so, the applicant takes care of transparency and does not see that this amendment loses the legal possibility of achieving an additional level of transparency in the ordinary procedure. He takes care of corruption, and forgets his boss is accused of serious corruption. They're talking about competence, they're in charge of finance, except the head of the estate card ministry reported the property to zero, and he said he was living off his savings. It's not measured as competence, it's measured as magic. They talk about competence when they say we're sticking to the agenda theme, and from their lines we've heard the greatest distance on the agenda theme ever spoken in this Assembly, which is when they've listed the sides of the series that are interesting to watch. Whether it's ironic or not, we've heard it. They talk about competence when they call for work in the Rules of Procedure and talk about peace in the National Assembly, and their boss visits MPs who speak their mind and insult them. When did you see an SNS MP or a ruling coalition go there to insult an MP? Maybe their boss likes sitting here, maybe he'll sit here sometime, but when the ruling majority sits on the other side. Ministers' competence can be seen when they pass a new section of the LJig-Prelin road. I'll tell you about the end of an event that took place years ago when a politician thought he was competent, and his style reminds me of the style of those who submitted to this amendment, went to a village and tried to convince the villagers and the locals that God doesn't exist, so he says to them, did any of you ever see God? They say it's nobody. He says: Have any of you ever seen his ID, his documents? They say it's nobody. Well, you see, it means he's gone. One uncle looks at him calmly and asks him – have you ever seen your brain? He says I'm not. Well, that means you don't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5529	The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5530	Article 107. I don't know when you'll start taking care of what the MPs say. There's a pattern here, I don't know if it's a clan of the ruling majority, whenever someone picks up and talks about something they're going to insult. This has already become comical, at the command to react. You can bring bells in for that. We really have to stop this. There's so much going on and on and on and on and on. For God's sake, let's take care of what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5531	I don't know where you've identified yourself, Mr. Radulovich. I respect you as an MP, but don't give yourself so much importance. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5532	I think we got some things wrong. We are not discussing Mrs Mihajlovic's competence for her ministry, nor are we discussing Mrs Mihajlovic's competence to decide who she is who can deal with technical maintenance of waterways. We're discussing that it can't be a minister, one or another, it's in the law. So it can't be one face. As a great admirer of the profession, I believe there must be a professional service that will define the conditions, technical and all others that are necessary, which would define who it is who can be that will maintain the waterways. In no case can it be the exclusive right of one man. If it's a game of words, so instead of the ministry behind which the professional service is written, it's something else, but I absolutely don't see it in this law. I would like it to be explained to me a little bit if Mrs. Mihajlovic could, what is meant by the minister to be competent, in fact, to have exclusive rights, or do you believe that this implies that there is a professional service behind you of the ministry that will define the conditions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5533	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5534	Thank you, Chairman. As far as the SPS amendment we're discussing is now not clear enough. Now, a colleague has tried to change the proponent's argument, and I believe that a respected minister will answer this question, and the fact is that all acts, sublegal acts, as well as legal solutions in all ministries, are being prepared by expert teams. You'll agree that the act still has to sign one person, and that can't be the ministry. It is the minister who is the responsible person and who is run by the ministry, who is responsible and responsible, and therefore has to sign sublegal acts. It's in his jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5535	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5536	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, positions 6 and 7 of Articles 3 whose erasure of the proposed amendment is required for closer conditions and criteria for the allocation and use of funds obtained from the Republic of Serbia's budget for technical maintenance of waterways, as well as the conditions that companies must meet to carry out operations of technical maintenance of waterways. The aim of the proposal for this law is to accelerate the development of water traffic. If we were to delete members six and seven, we would be in a position to report when public procurement is carried out companies that do not actually meet the conditions for technical maintenance of water traffic, which would in fact be contrary to the draft law, i.e. with the goal that we want to achieve. Also, if we delete the powers to prescribe closer criteria for the allocation and use of funds that will be used for technical maintenance of waterways, we are in fact losing transparency in this process, which is not good for anyone. For these reasons, I suggest we not adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5537	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslav Stankovic-Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5538	We have proposed to delete Article 4 and since you in the regime like this for the sake of the public to make fun of the amendments where members are deleted, I have an obligation just for the public's sake to explain on this particular case what it means when a parliamentary group asks to delete a member of the bill proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we think that this member should not exist at all in some law, we have no other business way but to say that this attitude has to be deleted and so is when it is proposed that all members of one bill are deleted from the first to the last when we have the view that there is no law in our legal system. That's not the case here, but it is the removal of Article 4. This Article 4 actually refers to a member of the 22nd Law whose amendments and additions today are being discussed on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This Article 22 speaks of meeting the conditions for winterers open for the wintering of foreign and domestic vessels. In the law proposed by the government to change, it was said that these conditions were prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We Serbian radicals think it has to stay that way. That is why we deleted the Government of the Republic of Serbia's proposal for the minister to do so instead of the government. There is no job that, in our opinion, should be entrusted in this way to one person, one minister, whoever, even if it were someone who did not spend time at the US Embassy and if it were someone we fully trusted we would not transfer this kind of responsibility to a minister, it would be the government's decision and, of course, the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, you can suggest whatever comes to your mind for the simple reason that you slowly but certainly introduce Serbia into a period when we will not even be able to address the Constitutional Court because of possible unconstitutionalness, because this is also an unconstitutional provision. The problem is that somewhere around half of December, we will no longer have the Constitutional Court, because nine judges of the Constitutional Court are now in office. You can't even theoretically finish the proposal work the way the Constitution predicts, so now I don't use time to talk about how the Constitution predicts that judges of the Constitutional Court are proposed and elected. And by the way, no one has remembered that today is ten years since we adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this House and that there is more and more talk about any changes to that constitution on the EU's orders, but of course we will face it more strongly when the time comes. You, when we spoke in principle about this law, and here I see now in the government's explanation why it does not accept this amendment, said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the removal of an entire member of the bill is contrary to the objective of which the bill is proposed. We're worried about that goal. We mentioned in the principle debate, the answer we didn't get was whether this law was aimed at privatising Luke Novi Sad, whether it had something to do with the German company "Renus logistics". At that time, Madam Minister, we had several replicas, but my colleague Arsic stopped the replica of course as always what the presidents always do when it comes to the opposition's representatives saying something, and I wasn't able to explain it, or remind the minister who said then that she doesn't know what it is when it comes to a job, that it's the government whose member she is is not working and that she won't return any more dark times, some former times. Now, Madam Minister, you're nodding your head, I hope you'll answer us now - are these dark times when Alexander Vukic was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or are these dark times when you came here carrying a bag of Miroljub Labus or are these recent times when it was possible for ministers to spend 100 thousand dinars on credit cards to buy laundry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5539	Right on the line. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've called about the amendment. Some parliamentary groups have an obvious aversion to Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic and whenever she appears in the National Assembly, they have the need to search for their political bile on her. But it's their legitimate right. I don't know who he was carrying the bag to, though, who he was at some political party at the moment, but it doesn't matter for this debate. After all, these are insinuations that the SNS face less every day. A few days ago, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic was also here. The MPs today trying to search for their political anger on it claimed that there were no tunnels on the LJig-Preljina road section, that these trucks couldn't get through, so that there were the same furniture, some say, mugging, scratching asphalt, so that someone would take the money. Yesterday, the prime minister sat in one of those trucks, passed that tunnel, nothing terrible happened, except to allow citizens of that part of Serbia to have a new 40km highway. Now if we would like to answer every innuendo, every lie, every insult and every slander that comes to the expense of Alexander Vukic or any minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we should do nothing else all day except answer – who posted what on his Twitter account, on Facebook, what he said in the paper, what he published this or that medium. It's just that there's no time for SNS. As for the amendment itself, a few things. First, the explanation of the amendment is written in such a way that it is clear to those who are lawyers and those who are not lawyers. Therefore, in an explanation of why this amendment should not be accepted, and otherwise this argument is identical with the reasons why Mr Branislav Mihajlovic's amendment should not be accepted, it is precisely those arguments the government insists on, which the SNS parliamentary group insists on. In the light of the reasons why these two amendments, which are fundamentally identical, are not to be accepted, would be lost – the legal possibility of achieving an additional level of transparency in that procedure would be lost. By eradicating the power to prescribe conditions that must be met by companies to carry out operations in the field of technical maintenance of waterways, it would be possible to report to companies that do not have a fleet at all or do not have an appropriate fleet to carry out technical maintenance operations, which would be contrary to the objective pursued by the draft law. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with this bill of law, is just about to remove any possibility of doubting the transparency of public procurement. It bothers you why this authority under the bill belongs to the minister. Let's get one thing straight first. From the point of view of the Law on State Administration, it is quite still to say – the Minister or the Ministry because all powers of the ministry are concentrated in the hands of the minister and when it adopts individual legal acts and when it adopts general legal acts. Both are brought and signed by the minister, possibly by his authority by the state secretary or assistant minister. But the ministry and minister in Serbian legal terminology have the exact same meaning. No one but the minister can bring in an administrative act. No one myself is a minister who can impose inspection controls. No one but the minister can pass a general legal act. Now, we're with this amendment, actually in the field of the Minister's right to bring in general legal acts. Some people don't mind. I don't know why it bothers them, because under the State Administration Act, the minister can pass under the law, so not by his own initiative, not by his own request, not by the criteria he sets himself, but by the law, three kinds of general legal acts - regulations, orders and instructions. Imagine the situation if such norms didn't exist in the State Administration Act, our laws would have 1,000, 2000, 3000 members. No one lives in that forest members of a law could manage. The law regulates... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Why are you mixing this? ) I'm not interfering, I'm just telling you, the Ministry and the Minister it's one and the same, because all the powers of the ministry are concentrated in the hands of the minister, our ministry, so you've read Lazu Kostic, the basic principle of state administration regulation is a monocrat principle, is that right? Yeah, I read it, too. So, the administrative right of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: When did you read? I guess you haven't read it, you seem to be mixing it. So, the monocrat principle on the regulation of ministries means that one man is at the head of the ministry and all the powers of the ministry are concentrated in his hands, and that he brings individual legal acts and that he adopts general legal acts. These general legal acts to which this article of the bill applies are rules, orders and instructions and it is quite logical that, whoever it is, I don't know why you are burdened by the personality of Zorana Mihajlović, Zorana Mihajlović is today a minister, tomorrow may not be a minister, we are the MPs today, we may not be tomorrow. This isn't about personalities, this isn't about individuals, this is about institutions. The institutions are of permanent character, the personalities are transient, in which I hope we agree, but I don't see what's at stake for the minister under the law that the authority to comply with the State Administration Act is making conditions in the public procurement process, so we don't have abuses happening right now. Rules, orders, and instructions are no secret acts. They are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in the same way that laws are published. So, it's not that we're avoiding regulation by law now, so we're empowering the minister to prescribe it himself, and what he prescribes no one will ever know except him. That's not true. I'm saying this for the citizens. So, all the general acts brought by the minister, not only Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, any minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and anyone who wishes to read what conditions are closer to reading that in the public procurement process in this domain, river or water traffic, they will be able to get to know each other in a very simple way. He takes "The Official Messenger", reads the Regulation and the matter is exactly the same, where rules, orders and instructions are also subject to the assessment of constitutionality as the laws. I don't understand the conclusion that we're going to get into a situation that we won't have a Constitutional Court. In every collective organ, it happens to end someone's term of office. The mandate of the Members of the People stands out. We all choose for some term of office, someone for four, someone for five years, someone for a long period of time, but we all choose for some time period. It doesn't mean that there won't be an institution where someone who thinks the law or the Constitution is damaged will be able to address it. In that sense, there is no need to scare the citizens of Serbia that there will be no Constitutional Court in the Republic of Serbia because a certain number of judges are running out of mandate. Those who are competent to carry out and initiate the procedure of electing new judges of the Constitutional Court will do so and no one's right will be questioned. I just want to say that there's no need to mystify things that, I think, are known to everyone, and also to a solid educated lawyer. So here's the thing from the legal point of view completely clear. Everything is transparent, everything is available to the public and avoids the possibility of any abuse. It would be more of an abuse if this possibility didn't exist, if you had some general norm in the law, then some director would prescribe you the terms he wants. No, in addition to the law, we, not only authorized, but also obliged the minister to pass a general legal act that would require closer conditions. So, you also have the conditions prescribed by law and the conditions defined by the General Act of the Minister, or the Ministry, which are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I do not see where there is any possibility of any abuse or elimination of the principles of transparency in the conduct of public procurement procedures in this area, water or river traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5541	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Replica? Wait. And you called in the replica? Okay. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5542	A few years ago, we had the opportunity to hear a comprehensive lecture, as we heard from the same colleague Martinovic, but four years ago, in the context of a lecture like this, he claimed what we are presenting through the amendment today, that such responsibilities could not be given to ministers, but to the Ministry, or to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Martinovic, he may not have deliberately said, that I did not say it knowingly, said that they were identifying the minister with the government. So the ministry and minister are one category, the government is a completely different category. The ministry is part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but jurisdiction by law differs absolutely, and fellow Martinovic knows it well. We don't scare the public here, we don't tell some sort of story order does. Mr. Martinovic, if the Constitutional Court has 15 judges, and there are, and you know it, and if half of December for nine judges will stop the term, then we will not have a Constitutional Court in office. No one has said that we will not have a Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but with your negligence we will have a Constitutional Court which will have five judges, or six judges, and will not have the opportunity to decide on the requirements delivered to the Constitutional Court. So Mr. Martinovic tried to turn the story into some sort of great legal knowledge, but failed anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5543	Mr. Sarovic, on what basis do you want a replica? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. On what basis? (Nemnja Sarovic, from the post: He said we were a parliamentary group fascinated by the minister's personality. So good, okay, and? It's not a basis for replication. No, it's not. There's no basis for replication. The word has a National MP Branislav Mihajlovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5544	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Martinovic mentioned my name and I think it's my turn to answer. Right now, I'm starting to have a lot of trouble with Mr. Martinovic putting himself in the role of interpreters as who thought and what who wanted to say. I mean what I thought, I said it, and it really bothers me in life, especially here in Parliament, when someone twists what I think and what I say and he interprets what I wanted to say. I would advise Mr. Martinovic to stay away from this manner, because it seems very offensive, especially since we are colleagues, both by the title and by the scientific titles we have, and I would not like anyone to interpret my views so much. Secondly, I didn't want to say anything personal, I just wanted to say that members of 6th and 7th are opening doors for corruption, anyone with a name and a last name. Mr. Vukic said at his exposé here in the Assembly that corruption is another of the country's burning problems. He mentioned a billion euros that evaporated somewhere, in some kind of health care. I say again, and there's the minister, and it's good to hear, and she's doing a lot of damage if members of the 6th and 7th are adopted. For the sake of transparency, she should give it up and say, "I give up members 6 and 7 because it raises suspicion that she can succumb to corruption and she would make big points there, because the people would see that she's practically fighting what we're all up against here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5545	According to Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why Mr. Martinovic thinks we're fascinated by Mrs. Mihajlovic's personality. I think it's perfectly legitimate when you criticize a minister to talk about a previous political engagement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5547	What member alone?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5548	Article 106. She didn't accept it disastrously. Then I don't know why it hurts Mr. Martinovic. I suppose because of his unclean conscience. As for carrying a bag, it's no big deal. Here, what if Mrs. Mihajlović wore Mr. Labus' bag, and you wore Mrs. Verice Radeta's bag, though, to be completely accurate, not the bag, but the laptop, though, to be even more precise, you didn't always, there was a dead race between you and Dragan Stevanović, so when he didn't get there before you, then you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5549	Comrade Sarovic, just explain to me what this has to do with article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5550	It has to do with Mr. Martinovic talking about it earlier, although it has absolutely nothing to do with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5551	And a colleague of Radeta's said something similar in her presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5552	I don't know what you're talking about Veronica Radetta. I reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure for the exposure of Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5553	And you answered, so when Mr. Martinovic does the same thing, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and when someone from your parliamentary group does, it's not. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5554	Mr. Arsic, let me explain. Yeah, that's right. I won't, of course, but you expect me to report to criticise someone from our parliamentary group. I am always in favour of a healthy and democratic debate and I have never, unlike some, asked MPs to be punished, regardless of which parliamentary groups they are from. I believe that if you give that right to the ruling majority, then at least a little more rights must be given to us who are the opposition. Everything else is called the tyranny of the majority. You've taken three breaks today, although I can say you have a proper session, but you've given three breaks every time after the ruling coalition's presentation. Let us say something from the opposition, so let us now extend this time a little bit, as you give Mr Martinovic up to two minutes and 30 seconds, two minutes and 35 seconds each time, it's no big deal. I am always in favour of this parliamentary principle and much more appreciated by the chairman who leads in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5555	I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can't be very fair to all MPs. So, if Radeta's colleague said something, something similar to her colleague Martinovic or any of the MPs, no matter what group she comes from, I will always do the same. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5556	I'll use six minutes, after three MPs attacked me, they said I said something I didn't say, and in two minutes I don't know if I'll be able to narrow it down. First of all, I thought Mr. Sarovic had made some progress, he was and remained a gossiping grandmother and he seems to be unable to leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5557	Please, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5558	As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I don't know what you've given Mr. Branislav Mihajlovic, because I didn't mention the man absolutely in any negative context, except that Mr. Mihajlovic's amendment is identical essentially with Mrs. Verica Radete's amendment. I haven't said anything to a man, I respect his age and his calling, but I have the right to have a different opinion from him. This was about me being a lawyer or something. I'm a bad lawyer, I admit, and I don't understand myself very well in this area, but I am still such a good lawyer to know that, for example, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not make up ministries, but ministers do. If the Government is made up of ministers, tell me - what is the logic of having the authority to adopt sublegal acts not as a minister but as a ministry? I told you nicely, I don't know what you've found here called and offended, so just that you've taken the book of Laza Kostic "Administrative Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia", so you can read that the basic principle in the regulation of the state administration is the bureaucratic-monocrat principle, which says that at the head of every authority of the state administration, and that the ministry stands one man and that all the powers of that authority are in fact concentrated in the hands of that minister, and when it brings individual legal acts and when it brings general legal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5559	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5560	I'm done, Mr. Arsic. We, by prescribing and making a commitment to the minister to prescribe closer conditions for public procurement, conditions that can be read in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", reject any possibility of abuse and any possibility of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5561	Thank you. The right to replica has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5562	I understand some frustration from a letter that talked about its amendment. I'm here first of all to talk about the law, if you need some help or an explanation about the law, I'd love to. It seems to me that you may not have had the opportunity to see that there is also a rule on the unique methodology of making all sublegal acts, under one, under two, that your amendment gave you the simple opportunity to create many more sublegal acts, which we don't think is necessary and we also gave it to you in an explanation. What I think may simply not be clear from the very beginning, that is, the issue of privatisation that you mentioned. The privatisation of Luke Novi Sad is, above all, transparent and transparent, as everyone is saying today, so that nothing can happen which would be against the law. You will have every step that happens within the privatisation process of Luke Novi Now to see and, of course, with all your comments, I hope, by correct comments, you react. When you mentioned the word "furthering" and some dark times, well, yeah, I still don't think those dark times can come back. These are the times you stayed in. Some others have surfaced and done much more for this country than in those dark times. I am very happy about people who are very high-quality, who are no longer in that policy of dark times, who have indeed been difficult for all citizens of Serbia. I don't know if it's been difficult for you or for your party president that I never see in any debate when it comes to laws or maybe it's a relationship to a particular minister or minister. I'm sorry he left you to defend the law, and before that, of course, he never directly attacked a member of the government again, that is, me. In any case, I believe dark times will not return. I hope the law is passed. I hope you have a chance to see how Luke Novi Sad will be privatized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5563	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5564	I hope that, regardless of all the frustrations that exist, one moment you will say – this is done, and this is not done. As for political engagements, my biography, she's very public, I'm pleased with her. It's never a problem for me to wear any bag that does good things for my country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5565	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5566	According to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 116, which obliges all those present at the session to behave in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, which Zorana Mihajlovic did not do earlier. So she put her attitude here if I was frustrated, I don't know why I'd be. She probably is, for two reasons. One is that Vukic will not propose it for the president of the Republic, and she would like it, and the other is the mention of SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj, who will undisputedly be president of the Republic after the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5567	She's a colleague of Radeta's. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5568	Allow me, please, only within Article 116.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5569	This is a replica already. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5570	I'm talking about Article 116.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5571	Member of 116, a colleague, says they all have the same rights in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5572	Yes, but also obligations and rights. So the lady has to act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and she can't stand here, as minister, her position on why some MP sits here or doesn't sit. Is she right, Mr. Arsic? There isn't. Vojislav Seselj, what does she think, scared her? Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, Vojislav Seselj did not present any of the attacks on you, she said. He merely stated the fact that you are a spy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5573	Comrade Radeta, please, there is no speech here that I have violated Article 116. Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5574	When Sasa Radulovic gets tired, Nemanja Sarovic comes. Now it looks like it's his time. Now little does he entertain us and performs in the National Assembly. I ask you, Mr. Arsic, give your word to whoever you want, but don't let the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia be a punching bag when someone comes to mind and the ministers in the Serbian government are called foreign spies, to bid here with presidential elections who will win. Let Vojislav Seselj, Mrs Radet, win a thousand times, if the people vote for it, but the people voted for Alexander Vukic and voted for the SNS. I, as far as I can see, have already been noticed by the citizens of Serbia, and Alexander Vukic has spoken of it many times. You all seem to have won the presidential election. Vojislav Seselj won, Sutanovac already won, Sasa Jankovic won, Radulovic won, Tadic won, you all won. Great. I congratulate you all, let's just wait for RIK to count the votes and tell you that you've all won and re-introduce the collective presidency institute, because you've all won, and it can only be one president, so we'll have a presidency like the SFRY, so change every year. For a year, Seselj, the second year of Šutanovac, the third year of Saša Radulovic, is possible. I don't mind that, I'm just asking you, Mr. Arsic, to conduct the session as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, otherwise all SNS MPs will come forward for a word, because what is now done is inadmissible. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. To insult the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, to bring about insinuations. Now are we gonna talk about who said anything about the tunnel, and you can't get through, it can't go through. What do we do now that he's gone? Will someone apologize to Mrs. Zorani Mihajlovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5575	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5576	... For all those insults about setting up a tender with this, that firm, the drag machines from Russia, I don't know what. What is it now, a truck passed and now you're all quiet about it? (The Belief of Radet, from the place: Who mentioned that he could not?) Who mentioned it? You mentioned from your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5577	You're bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5578	You can't get past the boot, and Zorana set this up, and Zorana set that up. We all heard what anybody said and now what? What now that the truck's passed? Now the dots don't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5579	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Martinovic, wait for me to answer, please. I do not think I have broken the Rules of Procedure in any part of my life, and I know that in the coming period it will be harder and harder to run the Assembly sessions, because MPs will try to promote their candidates for the president of the Republic of Serbia, here in the National Assembly. The people will decide on this and I ask my fellow MPs that, when they say their political messages to end it once, we can move on with our work, because this is not going anywhere. I'll delete the list now. No more rights. The word has the minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5580	So, let me say one part that is very important, and related, once again, to the issue of privatization of the Port of Novi Sad. We expect this process to be completed by the beginning, or by the end of the first quarter of next year. I think it's also important to know that this law, along with a set of water traffic laws, is necessary and important so that we can further develop and invest first and foremost in water traffic. What I think is also very important, especially when it comes to your party's amendments, is that one issue of supervision that you're asking for must be strictly within the jurisdiction of the Directorate, and another is the possibility given in accordance with the law, which is that it can and may not. Somehow, I hope we have a little more quality discussion on the amendments. I'm very sorry, I don't want to worry your party president, so I wouldn't comment on it anymore. And as for any kind of insult to your account, it wasn't for a single moment, nor did I mention your name, and I'm sorry if you found yourself in that sense, but I really hope... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: I did not find myself, but you said a letter. I don't know, maybe you're used to always talking to someone at the same time, I'll wait neatly for you to say it. (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: I guess you're focused.) Well, I have my word now, so when I'm done, you guys feel free to mess it up. So, I haven't mentioned a single moment of your name, if you've found yourself in that category frustrated, I'm sorry again, but the law is really something important to this country, and the least important is yours and my situation in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5581	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. How come he can't do business? ) No more Rules of Procedure, you have exchanged what you have to say to each other now we continue to work. At least wait for the amendment to Article 5, and move on to this circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5582	I have a lot of understanding and solidarity for you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but obviously you won't get it so I start talking, so I'll give you a reason to come back later. I'm kidding, of course. So, five minutes of those I'm entitled to. With a high risk of something very unusual happening and as bad as it would be if something fell off the ceiling or something like that, I'm going to say that I think that the solution proposed by the law is, and it concerns the responsibility of the Minister for Decision Making these decisions well, with all due respect to the best intentions that I have no doubt that they have offered MPs who are proposing this amendment. Of course, the fear of corruption is great and completely justified and we can play with time before, after, at that time, in my time, in other people's time, but corruption is the cancer of every society and it's just a question that organs attack all that cancer and how deadly it is. I don't think Serbia is any exception to that and that there was corruption and there was a being, it's just a question of whether we can bring it down to a level that is tolerable. I think it's a better solution for ministers to be responsible for everything that's going on in their portfolio. So we hide behind some working groups, expert commissions, agencies, independent bodies. Independent bodies are a very good thing, but in a society that is ready for such bodies. Our society is obviously not ready for this, and we usually have more corruption with independent bodies than if we knew the name and last name responsible for something. I think this solution is good. Will that in itself prevent corruption? Of course, there is no doubt about it, and that is why the public is necessary. First of all, we in parliament and then the public outside the parliament who has the same part of responsibility to prevent corruption. When the name and last name of a minister is known to be responsible for something, then we have a very clear situation. That means -- for the deficit in the 700m-euro budget, which will be at the end of the year, the finance minister and the prime minister are responsible. The helicopter crash, which was 605 days ago, was blamed by the defence minister and the Prime Minister. For Savamala... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5583	Mr. Zivkovic, are you the judge? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, you did not understand me. Are you a judge? You're making a statement of guilt right now. I understand perfectly. You can't say he's guilty, you can say he's responsible, but you can't say he's guilty. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That's what I said. No, you said he was guilty. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Okay, here, I take it back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5584	He's not guilty, he's responsible. So he's responsible for the situation in one area. If someone in Savamalaj crashes, under cover of the night, the day after the election, some buildings, for this are guilty, responsible, municipal police, Serbia's MUP, the city's government, the prime minister himself said that some fool from the top of the city government did it. If something happens about guns, spies, weapons that are found somewhere that can't be, that's what the Home Secretary is responsible for, and that's what the head of the Bureau of Service is responsible for. I think that's a good solution. As the President or Chairman is responsible for the order in parliament, as each MP is responsible for the conduct of the MPs individually, so it is very good that in the division of power, in the legal definition of who is responsible for what, it is clear by name and last name. I think that, hopefully, was the idea of the legislator, to present in this way the best, potentially best chance of fighting corruption. If something is wrong with the waterways, if anything is wrong with any part of the river navigation, it will be, by adopting this law and these members without change, to blame the minister, the minister, the next, whoever is in that position. I think that's a good solution. I think it's a good idea to go back to discussing the essence of the subject that we have today. There was everything and everything in the debate today. I'd ask you just before the end something that doesn't have much to do with this, but just one quick question since the minister is here, but it's nothing dangerous, don't be afraid. Two months ago, the attending minister said the Obrenovac-LJig road would be open in mid-2017. Today she said it would be at the end of 2017. What exactly is it? And the other thing is, I appeal that, regardless of my understanding of this atmosphere and these emotions, that the family dispute between radicals and genetic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5585	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: and genetically modified radicals will be interrupted. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5586	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating a violation of article 106. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr. Chairman, an earlier speaker has announced that he will speak for five minutes. He is entitled to five minutes according to the Rules of Procedure, but five minutes of one sentence on the amendment and the subject of the agenda has not been spoken of. I have an understanding of your tolerance. I saw that you tried to warn him, distracting him that he wasn't a judge, but I have to tell you, he is obviously a judge, or at least he's used to being a judge, he's used to being both a judge and a prosecutor and a cop and arresting people in "Sablja," to close down and who knows what he's doing. But, Mr. Zivkovic, there is no more "Sablje", no more emergency...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5587	No personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5588	Forget about it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: This is your hope! And it'll never happen again. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: This is your hope! It's two dots of zero, get ready! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5589	A colleague, Markovic, to answer my colleagues. Well, did you really expect him to go after a 106nd colleague, Zivkovic, to stick to it? According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5590	Mr. Chairman, as far as you're going to allow, I'm reporting under Article 107, where the speaker at the National Assembly is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We have all day long that some MPs are insulting the minister, insulting the MPs, that the unrealized politicians individually through Twitter, individual in the hall, think that they are very important, very important, if they mention the Prime Minister and then it is achieved, think they have five minutes of glory if they muster the courage to mention the Prime Minister, who is using all his day of work for the benefit of the citizens, for raising the quality of life of our citizens, and they think they are very important if they mention him several times during the day. How long will you allow one parliamentary group and the president of that parliamentary group, where he has shown only in the past how Serbian citizens can be robbed, how to destroy businesses... You can see it's being recognized right away. I don't have to speak any further, when we see that the president of the parliamentary group is immediately recognized, that he knows that he was the one who destroyed Serbian citizens and businesses in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5591	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Nemnja Sarovic, from the post: How will Verica Radeta when I have contacted her before and when I am deputy head of the parliamentary group? How? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5592	That's right. First Nemanja, then Natasha, then me. It's a log-in order. You can't choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5593	Well, I can't choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5594	Well, you can't choose. First Nemanja, then Natasha, then me. That's the order. We know when we called and we know why, in exactly this order.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5595	Right in that order?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5596	That's exactly the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5597	Well, when we do, in that order, I can't choose. Mr. Krasic was in the O.R. when you called.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5598	Auuu, Krasic went to Zrenjanin an hour ago. Hey, Arsic, take the Rules of Procedure, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5599	Well, I know the Rules of Procedure well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5600	You don't know. Now I'll explain, when you don't know, when it's my turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5601	I read in that order about how you signed up. The last on the list for the breach of the Rules of Procedure is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5602	The order is Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic, so me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5603	But I see in which direction this is going, so since it is obvious that Article 112 does not help, and in Article 103 that regulates the breach of Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose the measures provided for in Articles 108 and 111. Rules of Procedure. So, more to end the breach of the Rules of Procedure for Political Talks. You've exchanged political views with each other, even insults, but let's get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5604	Come on, please, we have to finish this Rules of Procedure, what we have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5605	We're going back to work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: How if you said I was next? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5606	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, there is a saying that reads: "He who has ruled over others is the unbearable authority of others over him himself." For these reasons, my fellow farmer should be forgiven for what he said. Whether the minister or the ministry should take care of some law, I'm in charge of personal responsibility. It was just touching to me when my colleague the farmer talked about corruption. So, when he sold DIN and DIV for three times the price, he sold it in a privatisation that he started during "Sablje", and for God's sake, to whom he's flogging his fist, I see that his tongue is sharp. So someone who did it during the Sabre transparently, when people were arrested, someone who did it for three times the price was here talking about corruption. Someone who sold all the smokers besides DIN and DIV, because in that contract it was said that no one else could produce cigarettes for three years, and that those who had invested three times the price of the one that was marketable just to get their investment back. Someone who sold both smokers and cigarettes under very suspicious circumstances and factories during “Sablje” speaks of corruption. That's touching to me. Someone who often speaks of, I don't know, in the 1990s, someone who referred to the interior minister, who, while he was a minister, celebrated new years in The Tower with future prime minister killers, is talking about responsibility here, he's talking about the police minister. Here he is with the Republic Minister, a few months ago, in The Tower. Do I make up, if the photograph speaks enough, let your viewers judge. So, someone who was there...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5607	Let's talk about the amendment, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5608	By amendment, and I speak. Someone who was then a minister was also responsible for corruption, and for me, for the subsequent liquidation of the prime minister whose place he jumped in and, behold, the same man who was with him was a Republic minister... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Are you deaf now, Arsic? )......................................................................................................... Again suggested for the Republic Minister, here are the unarticulated screams that speak of this being true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5609	Comrade Rističević, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5610	So, someone who was the federal interior minister, who together in the special operations unit with the interior minister, the republican one, celebrated in the special operations unit, later that same republican minister, after the harsh liquidation of the prime minister again named as minister. It's touching when he's talking about the minister's responsibility. I agree with that. He's like the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, letting his vice president, here hug him with the Legion, so he let himself be Deputy Prime Minister. Someone who spoke as a minister about so many paramilitary formations, who is here with the leaders of paramilitary formations, this seems to me to be Zeljko Raznatović Arkan. So, someone who talks so much about the evil 1990s, who talks so bad about radicals, here's his president of the party who made alliances in 1993, who entered the headquarters of the SRS. One more thing, my fellow farmer forgot that the same evil radicals, as he calls them, would not confirm the results of the DOS, thus helping him to seize power, and to God and glory. In the end, I have to conclude. It was very moving, what our people say – a long language says as short a mind as possible, and my fellow farmer is the best proof of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5611	Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5612	So you injured a member of 106th and 107th Presidencies. Nemanja Sarovic throws. Listen to me now that I'm talking to you, because it's about you. You broke, first, you let her talk about something that had nothing to do with the agenda, and secondly, to insult this tall home. Of course it's a shade of lies that are collected and photocopied both in the head and in the hands. As far as tobacco industries are concerned, ask Little One. He was the head of the tender committee for the sale of tobacco industries, so ask him if it was? If he knew, if it wasn't the same, he knows. As for this burglary of lies about who he played with, sang with, I won't comment on it, and it's not a topic at all. The topic, Mr. President, is the chairman, which you allow to speak completely out of the agenda. It's not a question of whether anyone can insult me or not. On Dorcolo when you step into something like that, wipe out your shoe, grab a bag and throw away... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5613	Mr. Sarovic, you? According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5614	Mr. Arsic, as I commended you to lead in the democratic manner of this session, you gave me the next six times, when I reported to the Rules of Procedure or to the replica, you did not give your word, even though you were obliged to do so. You have injured a member of 103 who says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in his conduct, etc. You had to react the moment Mrs. Mihajlovic told Mrs. Verice that she was frustrated. She commented directly on her presentation, said "the previous speaker", and said - I understand her frustrations. If we, who are the MPs of the people, who are in our house, because the National Assembly is our home, in the heat of fighting someone and saying something that may be more than we should, it can be patient, but that the minister insults the MPs of the people it is unacceptable. What would it be like if we came to the government meeting and insulted the minister? Not at all. So if you're already talking about some culture courtesy, then show it. Not by your words, I am kind, polite and cultural, but by not insulting the Messengers of the people. The minimum of decency, Mrs. Mihajlovic, requires you to apologize to Mrs. Radeti, to say – the moment has brought me, I didn't mean it. Instead, you spoke again in the second reporting about frustrations that allegedly identified Verse Radeta. That's inadmissible for you. You must learn once, you who come from the government, ministers, that there is no sign of equality between you and us. It doesn't exist, especially not in this room. What we like about you is not like you. You are the ones who must behave politely and the tone of each debate determines the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5615	Comrade Sarovic, let me answer you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You did not answer me. I will answer to you too to my colleague, Zivkovic. I've often said that every action must cause a reaction, and you know it very well. If you expect respect from the minister, then respect the minister as someone we chose here in the National Assembly. If you don't expect respect from the minister, then don't expect a reverse. If you call the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia a foreign mercenary, if you ask the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia what he was doing at the US Embassy, did he inform the Prime Minister at the session at which the Law on Navigation is held, then you can't expect... (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Reaction. First it was an insult, and then there was a reaction. I remember perfectly, Mr. Sarovic, how it was. After that, you are reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and half the time you use for replication, and you forget that Mrs Mihajlović has once again addressed the National Assembly and commented on her previous speech statements, which have facilitated a lot of things. So I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now I really ask you to stop the practice of misusing the Rules of Procedure in the sense of replicas, to answer each other. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: I never answered when I was wrong. ) Since I see that there are already raised Rules of Procedures... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I want to vote. You will vote on the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. Now no one can say that I interrupted the presentation as they spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Sreto Peric, Zoran Krasic. [[After a break.]] Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delić, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milačić, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5616	Thank you. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 7 refers to article 38 of the basic law and our proposal is to delete this member as a whole. We believe that the solution given otherwise in the basic law is more correct. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the use of the term "hydrotechnical facility" in a professional sense is more correct, and the precision of the proposed norm is aimed at removing the problems that have arisen in practice as a result of the existence of a clear normative provision, to which the specific hydrotechnical objects of the provisions of that law apply. Here in this law, both in changes and in the basic text of 2010 in Article 4, the terms used in relation to the other laws are defined here even 73. It's not explained in basic or alternating terms. For the first time, "hydrotechnical objects" appear now, and given the unique methodology or methodological rules for making regulations of a particular language, style and method of writing, where they are said to be – in Article 34, the provisions of the regulations should contain norms written in clear, summary style, without excess words and in a way that excludes any ambiguity. In Article 35, where it is said that the regulation should use unique terminology, or terms with already established meaning. Well, I don't know what kind of experts helped the government here to say in his explanation that it's more correct to use a "hydrotechnical facility" than to use a "hydro-building facility", which in all of the previous changes to the law has been like an absolutely correct term. It is really strange that aside from this many amendments to this law, aside from even 73 items that it has in Article 4, which serve to specify the terms and terms used in the law, such a failure is allowed to be made without being precise or to say hydrotechnical projects are there, and hydrobuilding facilities are these. In my opinion, it may have been necessary to use both terms, since the term "hydrobuilding facility" practically corresponds to most of the objects that are listed to be now understood under "hydrotechnical facilities". Therefore, we felt that it was absolutely right to delete this Article 7 completely and to remain the determination that was contained in the consolidated text of Article 38 of the basic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5617	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, MPs Bozidar Delic, Aleksandar Belačić and Zoran Krasic and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and this amendment has been rejected from the full account unacceptable to me, I would say for a pointless reason. We believe that this Article 9 has been changed for no reason, it is exactly the same text that was in the old, or existing law, practically identical in one letter of one word to make a difference, and then in the explanation of why the amendment was rejected, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the repetition of the said article with several lexical amendments, therefore, the legislator is aware that there is a lexical correction and nothing more, was necessary in a no-technical sense in order to postpone the application of the said article until 1 December 2018. Nothing fundamentally changes in that article compared to the current law. For absolutely no reason, the amendments are being proposed, and that is why we ask that this member of the law be deleted, and in fact he is hiding behind it, this is revealed to us by the legislator, behind this is the delay of application until 1 December 2018. To make it clear, something that should have started to apply in 2017, since the government had not arrived and apparently the ministry had not arrived to prepare everything necessary to prepare for the application of the law in 2017, the law adopted in 2015, is now being postponed for a year. So, don't give us any lexis changes, but say it freely -- we didn't prepare everything we needed, we haven't done it right in the past two years, and that's why we have to postpone the law we've passed ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5619	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5620	The law on sailing and ports on internal waters that we're talking about today has changed four times and this is the fifth change, and it's amazing that you're trying in this way to actually hide from the public what is both the essence of these changes and this law, and we're saying that when we talked about the law in principle, and here we are talking about now. Article 9. We proposed that this bill be deleted and indeed in the very explanation we said it was necessary because this article of yours is supposed to be amended by Article 46a, and it's really just supposed to make you do something essentially by entering the same text as the text in Article 46a. Is it just a technical mistake? This is difficult to assess, but it is the fact that this provision will only take effect on 1 December 2018. So, you don't have any valid, normal explanation and no valid reason to tell the MPs nicely that because you in the ministry are unprofessional, incompetent, you don't do well, whether you haven't done those hundreds, which Mrs. Mihajlović has driven out of the ministry, so these new ones haven't learned yet, we don't know what it is, but you're trying to fool the MPs by suggesting, as some kind of technical amendment to the law, the same thing that was already in this article 46a, and then you say, rather boldly, in an explanation that you don't accept this amendment, you say – because repeating the said article with several lexical corrections, be careful, it was necessary in a lack of technical sense to postpone the application of that member by December 1st 2018. This is really funny. Therefore, a lexical correction is the reason or some lexic error, possibly in the basic Article 46a, is the reason for the application of this article to be postponed until 1 December 2018. Madam Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, you must take care of what proposals you make before the MPs. Try to at least make your explanations acceptable to your common sense. What you did tried to do was actually offend the intelligence of the MPs, but as you can see, you failed. We caught you in a bad way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5621	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5622	Thank you very much. A few explanations. First of all, you're absolutely right. It's the same article except for changing time. So we have a delayed application on 1.1.2018. The reason for this is that neither the Elektroprivreda came nor the Toplan to arrange ports for their own needs during the previous period. Problems existed with these companies above all in relation to project technical documentation, etc. We did not want to leave the deadline of 1 January 2017 by adopting this law in November 2017 because it would lead to the situation that we should break the supply chain and that we have a problem first of all with the "Toplans". This is why this article stands for delayed application on 1 January 2018. So there's nothing to cover up. It's all good. It's all good. It's all good. These are the reasons that are justified and can be shown. I don't know if it's normal or not, but it's a fact. Secondly, to be completely honest, I prefer to be able to make my colleagues laugh, or a colleague from the SRS, rather than maybe, God forbid, throw a curse at me from your party or come to the microphones, so I'm glad if this made you laugh, and I'd prefer that in 1.1.2018, all the numbered "Toplanes" and "Electro-Serbs" have ports for their own needs and that we no longer have any more problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5623	According to the businessman Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5624	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I tried that an hour and more. You used the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the most harsh way, and you were obliged first to be vice president, and you were only one of six vice-presidents, to protect the reputation of the National Assembly and of the National MP and vice-president of the National Assembly. To tell Zorana Mihajlovic because she does not know and respect the National Assembly, that Mrs Radeta is the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you are the Minister of Government to insist on certain foreign forces, Western agents that have pushed you into the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5625	My colleague Jovanovic, please, so we chose ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5626	... I speak very responsibly and do not interrupt me because you have misused the function you are in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5627	My colleague Jovanovic, I have not abused anything. Members of the government are still elected in the National Assembly and this is the Serbian government. It's neither American nor Russian, nor Chinese, nor any and you speak to the Serbian minister. Therefore, as a member of the government we have chosen, I beg you to behave accordingly. It is your right to vote yes, against, or not to vote at all, but it has been elected here in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5628	May I continue? Mr Arsic, you were obliged to warn Zorana Mihajlovic when at the beginning of her such rude and rude and contrary to this Rules of Procedure of Address spoke about the start of this session. First of all, Mrs. Mihajlović, this is no new system law, but we have amendments and additions, so don't even expect the youngest doctor to be in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, because you said that our president doesn't mind these laws and that he doesn't care, so he doesn't attend...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5629	This is now a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5630	... to have some serious expert discussion with you about something like this you call the law. Secondly, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you escaped today, which Mr. Arsic saw, but did not warn you to tell the truth. You entered the moment Dr Vojislav Seselj spoke, and you escaped precisely because you are the minister for whom the rules on contacts with foreign embassies should be adopted...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5631	Time, co-worker. Exactly two minutes and you're wrong again. I asked Minister Mihajlovic, the minister, however you wish, to come out, or he informed that he did not have to attend the session while the parliamentary issues were in the next 30 minutes. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Now according to the Rules of Procedure, you? First Belief of Radeta by the Rules of Procedure I just gave you an explanation. [[Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. Can I have a replica?]] Nothing more. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the city: Okay. Whatever. I'm only telling the truth. You're not in a position to talk to me from that place. I'll wait. I can do it later. ( ) Since my colleague Milojic has reported to the Rules of Procedure, there is no way you can. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am advocating Article 108 - on the order of the session to be chaired. I ask you to end this divorce case between the SRS and the former SRS, and the current SNS, because the DS doesn't want us to listen to it, because you're from the former SNS, that is. SRS, we've ruined the land of the '90s, and these are yours working today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5633	Now more, since I can agree with article 108 to take care of the order, but Mr. Milojic, since it's a divorce, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure anymore, it's a replica. Do you want to force me to apply Article 103 regarding Articles 108 and 111? (Radoslav Milojic, from the city: We are Democrats, we are not forcing anyone. I know it well, I felt it on my skin, very well. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Perhaps Mrs. Mihajlović, when she was in our ranks. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5634	I could have reported to the Rules of Procedure, but I still chose the right to reply, because Mrs. Minister spoke to me in a really inappropriate way and in an inappropriate dictionary, but she can't insult me in any way. The fact is that this law, we said it in principle, is a bad law, and it can't even be corrected by amendments. These are actually only changes, cosmetic changes to the law, I repeat what we said at the beginning, to set up a tender for a New Zealand port to some German company. As for Mrs. Mihajlovic's opinion, which she brought about me, we, Serbian Radicals, are well aware of what the Hague Tribunal thinks of us, Serž Brammertz, Scott Davenport, Zorana Mihajlović and we remain and we are proud that we are not part of that society and that this group has a bad opinion of us. As long as that's the case, we're sure we're real, honest Serbian nationalists and we're sitting here in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5635	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5636	The replica is this to what the minister replied.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5637	All right, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5638	What the Minister replied to the amendment and my explanation for the amendment, I simply don't think it's true. There were attempts to cover up the fact that something had not been done in 2015 until 1 January 2017 and that it was, in fact, the real essence of why this article is changing one letter in one word. There's no need for you to do that. You can delay the application of the law by changing a member to whom you have determined when a certain provision of the law will start, and you were able to explain the law itself to make these arguments that you have now made, which is that you simply failed to achieve the necessary conditions in order for a member of 46a to start applying on 1 January 2017, as planned by amendments to the 2015 Law, so in two years, it takes you another year to do so. So I think we should still respect the MPs and discuss here what really is the essence, and not find out how you hid something in the law by submitting amendments. If you hadn't given this explanation to me or your colleagues from other opposition parties, it wouldn't have been clear at all why you suggest that one letter be changed in one word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5639	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5640	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am now merely speaking to the public of Serbia and to you, because we have an rude minister in the O.R. So, I have submitted this amendment, along with my fellow SRS MPs, because we believe that the first addition of these two new attitudes, which apply, to colleagues who may not be following up at this time, and because of our public, on the transport of the face of the yacht, or on the recreational vessel, introduces a new position that limits those persons who own yachts, or recreational vessels, sport, come on, so to speak, can only be those legal persons and natural persons who registered that activity in our country, but who are in the possession of a domestic legal or physical person. We believe that this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to Article 17 that regulates the position of foreigners in our country. First of all, I want to say this as someone who cares, unlike the legislator of amending this law, about the emerging moments when a growing number of those persons who are wealthy, and tourists are from foreign countries, will wish to use their yachts in our area, or recreational vessels. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says nicely - that foreigners in accordance with international agreements have all the first guaranteed by the Constitution and law in the Republic of Serbia, except for the rights that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have under the Constitution and the law. You know very well what are the rights that only we, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can have, and now we will come into the situation that one of us, is to say some legal person who has his own exposure that works here, to take, for example, a Russian tourist operator, to want to rent just as a legal face of his yacht, or a recreational vessel, and now it will be disabled or written, but I personally think that this part should have been handled as a single newspaper in a brand new member, to be precise and clear and therefore to be attached to what Mrs Radeta just said, and also to what Mr Krasic has said for several days now, how long and the debate in principle and details, that very, very, very badly, very badly this amendment and the addition of the law, and that the system law that regulates such an important area must be absolutely in line with those standards concerning the Republic of Serbia. What bothered me, first of all, Mr. Arsic, since you are someone who, you say, closely monitors all the events, so we're supposed to step away from the topic, you saw that in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment foreign words and expressions, which we know are not foreign, but such innovations, which probably come from these foreign embassies, whose spy is Zorana Mihajlovic, we cannot accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5641	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5642	Let me explain a little bit, I was a little surprised, so I listened very closely. We were first surprised by the proposal of your amendment, and we were really looking at it for a long time, because I know from your biography as a tourist guide, I know that you care about foreign tourists, but I was surprised at another thing, which is that the SRS is actually in favour of this amendment next, to plastically explain to the citizens of Serbia. So, to come here a foreign company, to sail a ship under, say, an American flag, and to perform business here. That, Serbianically speaking, is called tax evasion in our country. Yeah, that's what we've made impossible by this law, they can't come, they have a US flag ship here, and they're doing business in Serbia. So now, I don't know who works, maybe you have some other close ties with the US Embassy, I don't and I don't think this is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian state to allow this kind of thing, as well as your proposal to practically, know again all Serbian MPs and citizens, to share and make two members of that member one position at a time, which we thought, no matter how carefully we read and watched whether we could go out to the SRS, we realized that it wasn't in the interest of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5643	Natasa Jovanovic's MP, according to the amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5644	Not by amendment, but by replica, don't waste my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5645	You have no right to a replica, there was no offensive expression in any part.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5646	Okay, I'll use the time then, one minute is really enough for me. First of all, don't defend yourself by connecting something that has nothing to do with the SRS, I've given you a very opposite example, and otherwise I can tell you, from the experience of a long time in this area, that you are thus denying the rights of those who would do so with the emphasis and flag of their country and the flag of Serbia. You said it nicely here in the first place, it was unclear why you put this into this article: "a foreign vessel on the inner waters of the Republic of Serbia is required to wind up its flag state of membership and flag of the Republic of Serbia". Is that true? Was it in this law? And then you add a second position in which you say that "the transportation of a person by a yacht, or by a boat for recreation on internal waters, on the basis of renting a yacht, or by a recreational vessel, can only be owned by a domestic natural or legal person registered for the performance." So you've absolutely made yourself a papazian in this article of the law that absolutely this 2nd position you introduce disagrees and is not compatible with this 1st position of Article 47. Basic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5647	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5648	Just a little clarification. I know there's a lot of lawyers around you, so maybe you should ask them, so I understand that you didn't understand that very well. Item 1 that you have read to Serbian lawmakers and citizens refers to ships in international transport, not those yachts that you mention. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5649	The MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5650	We intervened with the amendment to Article 11 in paragraph 5. This Article 11 refers to the original Article 63. The law, or amendment of the Law that we are discussing today. This Article 63 applies exclusively to the protection of the environment. We have intervened here, as so far, that it can't be the minister who will make decisions, or sublegal acts, but must be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially here when it comes to this Article 11, where you yourself say that it is actually a way of dealing with pollution for vessels prescribed by the minister, with the agreement of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Minister for Water Management. So this is all about protecting the environment. It's just amazing why all these ministers got intertwined here instead of being sublegal acts of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You are saying that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the said sublaw, or regulation, will only make certain questions that are regulated by law, without prescribing inspection and violation, given that those provisions are already contained in the law. So if the provisions are contained in the law, then what will they do in the sublaw? So, the law is a framework, and a sublegal act needs to regulate in detail what the law frameworks. You then here in this article 63, through these changes you give the entire paragraph where you are absolutely precise in the law what are all the powers of the Minister of Environmental Protection, the Minister of Water Management, and with this member absolutely unnecessary any other sublaw act. The fact is, and that is the position of the SRS, that it is always good to define as accurately as possible what is the subject of the law as possible and to leave as little opportunity as possible to the Government to manage regulations instead of laws, and in particular we are against leaving such opportunities to ministers, in this case there are three ministers. You said through your explanation that we were right, only of course you couldn't admit it, so then you tried to turn it into something that was acceptable to you. So we suggested that this section of Article 5 be deleted, so that as the proposed article makes sense, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5651	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 11 of this law. My amendment refers to item 5, which was also spoken of by my colleague, Mrs. Veronica Radeta. With this amendment, I asked for the words in Section 5: "Minister with the agreement of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Minister for Water Management" to replace the word "Government". What was I looking for that for? It is simply that the Government is making all the laws before this Assembly, and it is not necessary to state in every law a certain minister, especially if we know that governments have been replaced recently for a year or two days, so we also have a situation to change the Law on Government and then a good law can happen and that it must be changed in front of MPs only for the reason that the Government Act has changed and now, the "Minister in charge of this or that", and that ministry can now be renamed or changed so that some other minister is in charge of these things. Simply, the word “Government” is certainly a word that is more appropriate and can never be a problem. Your explanation shows – this is covered by a sublegal act. Of course, every law, whatever law it is, has its own sublaws, where in a more precise and detailed way, some things are being arranged, but I think the government should have accepted this amendment, not just this one, but all the amendments of this guy that the SRS has filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5653	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that this amendment should not be accepted. First of all, if we were to assign this job to the government, then imagine all possible areas of social life in which the government would have to intervene through regulations or through other sublegal acts in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Practically, the government couldn't do anything but bring in different types of sublegal acts. We want to disburse the government, and at the same time we want to enable the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Water Management to adopt this Regulation, as said by the Minister of Resort, with the consent of the Minister of Environmental Protection and the Minister of Water Management. It is fully in line with the provisions of the State Administration Act. I keep trying to draw attention to fellow critics who are dissatisfied with the work of Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic that the topic of the agenda is not Zorana Mihajlovic and that the topic of the agenda is not the current minister. It's the institutions. We're talking about the normative regulation of institutions. For me, and I believe for my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, it is a rather inconclusive argument that it is not good that the word "minister" stands, so "Minister in charge of environmental protection" and "Minister in Water Management Affairs", because it is reportedly possible to change the name of the ministry. The name of the ministry can be changed, it is not at all controversial, but whatever the ministry is called, so whatever the name of the ministry is, in every legal, democratic and civilised country, you have a ministry in charge of environmental protection matters, and it is in the text of the bill. In every country, democratic, legal and civilised, you have a minister in charge of water business. The ministry doesn't have to be called the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it doesn't have to be called the ministry's term in general, but there is an authority of the state administration called the ministry in whose work is an area of environmental protection, i.e. the area of water industry. And by that, I have to tell my colleagues who are dealing not with the essence but with termological doubt, so the government doesn't have to be called the Government, sometimes the government in Serbia was called the Council of Ministers. What does that mean? Should we then delete the word Government because, possibly by some law, it can be prescribed that the executive authority is not called the Government but is called the Council of Ministers. But that wouldn't have taken us anywhere. This is about the essence. This is about rules. The rules are passed, I almost mean on a daily basis, at the level of each ministry. You have, after all, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and every legal system far more sublegal acts than the law. The laws are the most general after the Constitution, and they only need in principle to regulate certain issues. All other technical issues, which facilitate the application of the law in practice, are resolved by sublegal acts adopted by the competent ministers. There's absolutely no question about it. Enter any regulation register. In the Republic of Serbia or in any other country, you will see that they weigh the regulations under the law in relation to the laws. Otherwise, you would have had the age of Hamurabi, when Hamurabi's law was passed, then Hamurabi's law was contained in thousands and thousands of members. Today, we have mastered the nomotechnic much more than the lawyers of that time. Today, through general legal norms, we edit very precisely and in a general way certain situations that can happen in life, not as in the age of Hamurabi. Whoever steals a hen will be punished for it and for it. Whoever steals a cow, who steals a calf, who steals an egg, who steals this or that. Imagine if we were to do so then these laws of ours that govern far away, which regulate one much more delicate matter, these laws not only of the lawyers but I think that law schools, the trust of the legal brains, would not be able to interpret because we have laws of a thousand members. Such laws would be impractical. Inapplicable in practice. As a result, each law monitors the corresponding number of sublegal acts. If we were to entrust this to the government, then the government would practically have sessions every day, it couldn't be an engine primarily for the economic development of the state, it wouldn't be able to do that job defined by the Constitution, which is to run the internal and external policies of the Republic of Serbia, but the government would have to sit all day long and bring regulations from the most diverse areas of social life. Then there's another question, if it's government, what do we need the Ministry for? What do we need ministers for? Why do we need state secretaries, why do we need ministerial assistants, and why do we need the entire organization structure of the state administration? Then it's nice to choose the government and the government to entrust all matters to the state administration. Is that possible? It may be theoretically, but it's practically impossible. In practice, no country works that way and all these amendments, with all due respect to their applicants, I think they have only one purpose, which is that the amendment is submitted, always in the same text and that it is given the right to discuss. A little bit on the agenda, a little off the topic of the agenda, but in any case the essence of these amendments is that they and if they were accepted, if Minister Mihajlovic accepted them... (Radoslav Milojic, from town: Time. Who says time? Kenna? Where's my quote? So, if this amendment were accepted, it would not be practically possible to implement it. And what time says, Mr. Arsic, here's to make your day a little better, I know it wasn't easy for you, it's hard to deal with people who want to make your life a little worse for you and to obstruct the work of Parliament, this one that's wasting time and what he thinks is very smart and who has just commented on some divorce litigation, and that genius said the following. If you tell me what this means, I'll buy you no beer but coffee. He says, genius like this -- I've made a proposal to visit certain services, I wouldn't be here right now to point out which but the SNS can refuse, simply, have most, and to say there's no need for these services to be visited. Secondly, the answer to which in the time period for which we need to get that answer is 30 days. Anyone who understands will understand and ends – it is an extremely long period of time which leaves room for various machinations. Here, these are the geniuses who led Serbia until yesterday. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5655	Mr. Milojic, if he gives you the right to a replica, the only way that connects you is if a colleague Martinovic told him what to throw. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No, he said Kena. ) So, if I allow you the right to reply before that, I must give you a warning because you threw your colleagues to Martinovic – time. Is that what happened? You want a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5656	Dear Mr Arsic, the whole of Serbia knows that the only thing the previous speaker has said is that SNS is a mob and criminal organisation and that he does not want... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5657	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5658	I thank the chairman. The most severe violation was the 107th dignity of the previous speaker, the previous speaker who was known for only one thing, which is that he destroyed Smederjevska Palanka. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I have only one sentence of the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government that is in Smederjevska Palanca today, to quote it, which is Ana Brnabic. So – a very difficult financial situation in the Smederjevska Palanca and the first thing that must be prepared is a financial consolidation plan, followed by serious and urgent rationalisation, debt reprogramme and work to increase the municipality's income. The assistance of the Serbian government is possible, but only after preparing a recovery plan that we will work on together with the municipality. So he destroyed Smederevska Palanka, turned black, left millions of debts for beer, by the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5659	Only if you explain to me will I give you an answer as to what this has to do with Article 107? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Replica, I found myself. You have no right, there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to a replica. Okay, now you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5660	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising article 107, and I hope you'll be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5661	You can't do article 107, just a colleague Markovic advertised, find someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5662	I am advocating Article 108 – on the agenda of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly is taking care of himself, and I hope that you will be as parliamentary as you have been about the previous speaker. The head of the SNS Group from Vrakar where the previous speaker is from, Ugljesa Mrdic participates in the Peace Conference in London, and the topic is – the crisis in the Middle East and North Africa. Well, if experts from Vrakar can explain to me what links the head of a small-town council in downtown Belgrade has to do with the crisis in the Middle East and North Africa, all of which are paid by citizens of both the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Vrakar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5663	Mr. Milojičić, I will immediately answer you by article 108. I am taking care of the order and you have asked this question today and in the afternoon session and you have received an answer. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I did not. ) You received an answer only from other addresses, not from which you expected, that the head of the Vračar municipality's committee club, which is small and densestly populated in Serbia and I don't underestimate any local municipality and local self-government, that the cost of the trip was borne by the organizer, and that was not the citizens of Serbia, nor was anyone doing it on their behalf. You got that answer, so now I'm passing it on to you and that mention committee has denied and compensation based on the official travel log. You got that answer. Now as chairman, I'm forwarding it to you again, and soon you'll get it in writing. Mr. Markovic, on what basis are you now answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5664	He is a harshly abused member of the 103rd current Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker tried to make a false accusation at the expense of Vračar municipality. I only have to read the official memo for the citizens of Serbia, therefore, to the President of the Greater City Municipality of Vračar. On the occasion of the decision of the Greater Municipality of Vračar since 2 September 2016, by which I was sent on an official trip to London - I hereby inform you that, given that all my travel expenses, accommodations, meals are provided by the organisers, I will not raise the rights to the journals and I will not raise them, Ugljesa Mrdić on 2 September. So that trip didn't cost the citizens of Vracar, it's not like some bahanals Mr. from Smederevska Palanka cost the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5665	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5666	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 108. If you want to participate in the controversy, you must leave the presidency to one of your colleagues. And who did the work says that, gentlemen of the elderly, in four years you've put this country in charge of ten billion. There's no need to talk anymore... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5667	Well, Mr. Milojich, you don't know the MPs' institute. So, the answer is to the president of the National Assembly who's forwarding it to the council. Now, if you didn't live longer in error and ignorance, I was hasty... (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: I asked the prime minister, Mr Arsic. There's no need for you to explain. I'm not explaining anything to you, I'm explaining to you the procedure and the usual office business. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: It is not a procedure. It is a procedure. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No. If we're going to discuss the procedure, Mr. Milojic, you should know that the prime minister has nothing to do with the authority of local self-government. You should have asked the president of the municipality and the president of the municipality. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5668	I thank you, Chairman. Can I finally talk about the amendment? In view of the fact that the debate has already been under way for 15 minutes by calling on the Rules of Procedure, i.e. certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and it has nothing to do with these individual provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I would be determined by the amendments of my colleagues who have submitted these same amendments. This is an obvious example that the amendment does not move within the limits of the law. If he has passed, he has certainly passed the Legislative Committee and it is not disputed and one and the other amendment. However, there are two restrictions here that are in any case a legal obstacle to the adoption of the amendment. The first is - unique methodological rules for making regulations. Unfortunately, few MPs in this House resort to getting acquainted with the unique methodological rules for making regulations. If we had identified them in time, or studied them, we would not have had such questions and needs for such questions. The second restriction, which is also a reason to consider the amendment, although not a slow motivation, because motivation is extremely well-intentioned, to improve the quality of the law, is the provision of Article 14. The government law. According to that member, the minister is responsible for implementing the government's programme and policies. What is the proposal of law rather than the implementation of the Government's programme and policy? Well, this law on amendments and additions to the existing law is also in the spirit of implementing the government's programme and policies. And so is the minister under the same Article 14. The Government Act is responsible for the decisions and measures it has made, or possibly failed to make them. In this regard, the responsibility of the Minister for the adoption of relevant acts, proposals, whether it be a legal act or a decision or anything else, and in that spirit, should be oversaw, as a matter of fact, the need to amend the provisions to which the amendment applies. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group considers that, for these and procedural and material legal reasons, amendments cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5669	Thank you. Parliamentarians Sreto Peric, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another amendment to the horseback. It's known to me that it can be a nest of caterpillars, bugs and some other, conditionally speaking, unwanted insects that can cause less or more serious problems. Amendments by Members of Parliament as one of the possible applicants for the amendments shall be submitted on the basis of Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It can, of course, also be proposed by the legislator, also authorised committees and is said only when an amendment, or one authorised applicant of the amendment, cannot be submitted to the same member of the law, either individually or to someone else. If a colleague, Martinovic, could be re-worked under Hamurabi's code, it would likely be a very, very severe punishment for those who stole or perhaps steal the mandates of MPs or councilors today. I leave opportunities for Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the SRS amendment which we have submitted to Article 19 and in relation to Article 171. Laws on sailing and ports on inland waters. That member has had three positions so far. The government intervened with two more. We've suggested that Section 2 be deleted. Why did we suggest that this attitude be erased, and what did he foresee anyway? The Ministry is conducting a survey of navigation accidents through a navigation safety inspector. We suggest that this attitude be deleted and in the explanation we state the reasons why the proposal should be deleted, and that is – in the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents, there is an authority already authorised to intervene in these cases. The 3rd position, proposed by the government's new 3rd position, I will read it, to understand what it is, so that MPs in the voting day can vote in favour of this amendment. It is said: “For the organisation and conduct of a security investigation in order to identify the circumstances and causes of serious inland navigation, as well as inland navigation accidents and measures to avoid serious inland navigation accidents, as well as inland navigation accidents, as well as improvements in navigation safety, the competent authority is responsible in accordance with the law governing the investigation of accidents in traffic.” There is a law that was passed in 2015, which regulates this area. So we're fully justified to suggest that we delete this position 2. I think Mrs. Mihajlovic is a pioneer of the expert network for helping citizens and her colleague from that organization has proposed that many regulations be destroyed in one period, that we have a large number of regulations that do not serve or serve anyone. That's why we here have to use a little bit of a proper nomoch in a better way and I think this attitude 2 is completely unnecessary and should be deleted, as we have suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5671	Thank you. National MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5672	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I suggest that a member or amendment to Article 21 that reads is rejected, and I would not read, although I am fully in agreement with the opinion that the Government has delivered. So what I really want to say is, when it comes to Article 21 and in general the amendment is "expunged", as well as all the other amendments are "expunged", that it was actually today an attempt... Nemanja Sarovic throws. Don't, please, Mr. Sarovic. ... trying to show up or artificially create an illusion of some criticism, some criticism without real arguments, but what we haven't heard except a bunch of false things, except a bunch of insults we've been hearing all day. So, not a single reason, not a single fundamental regret. I have carefully read the arguments, especially those of the amendments that have the text “expunge itself,” and I have not been able to read anywhere in that explanation any single fundamental argument as to why they would delete any member, in this case Article 21. We all notice, Mr. Chairman, that today the big bile has been shown in this debate, so we're all wondering why. I believe that Mr Martinovic actually gave the answer to that in his finding that today in this room she has united both these left and this right one thing, which is common to them, which is the hatred of the prime minister they are expressing today towards the present minister. That hatred slowly, but surely takes on the character of pathology. What's that hate about? The prime minister was on national television yesterday where we heard some of the results so far. We also heard that the state of public finances was finally arranged, we heard that we were finally under the control of public finances, we heard that the deficit was drastically smaller, that it was never smaller lately. It's facts, it's facts. You may be in pain with those facts, but they're facts. We also heard that the level of foreign investment in this year is 1.38 billion euros. We also heard that tax returns are never better, even record, maybe. And you can't get away from that. Those who experience politics in a way that is worse for Serbia, it is better, of course, that they are bothered by this development. We also heard that the unemployment rate fell between 16% and 15%. We've also heard of progress on the world's Duing List, 44 seats, and an increase in pensions and salaries that will result in one-off payments, and what's most important, from real basics, from real resources, from real resources. So these are concrete results. This is what hurts them, because they, I repeat, experience their policy in a way that is worse for Serbia, it is better for them, but in practice it turns out that the better Serbia, the worse it is for them. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5673	Wait, buddy, there are more candidates for the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5674	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't know what's going on with this ruling coalition. This is the fourth term, the fourth assembly meeting in which I take part, and I don't think it really happened that the ruling parties, or MPs of the ruling parties, have been insisting so much that this debate is completely off the table in the National Assembly. You've been taking a break four or five times today. Finally, when everyone comes back to the amendments, nothing is caused by a representative of the ruling coalition and tells what he's saying. He's banging like Maxim in the division. This was completely unnecessary, completely off topic. The only thing I can think of as a positive is that the exposure was very short. Only. If you want to criticize opposition parties and criticize our amendments, and you say you haven't found any meaning in our amendments, well, your exposure is full of meaning. The other thing is, that kind of courtship to Alexander Vukic that every one of you who answers is talking about some kind of pathological hatred, he hasn't been mentioned here, except for you. Who said anything about him? Nobody. Nobody. So if you don't know what to say, go online, Google something, and come up with another idea. That story about how someone hates him, we were all scared when you said this today looks like we're all flocking, we mean you'll say the punch, the sequel, the third part. Therefore, do not challenge the opposition. Our reaction will always be stronger than what you do here. You dictate the atmosphere, and I repeat, you insist that the debate is being held here because you have no laws... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5675	Comrade Sarovic, time's up a long time ago. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: What, just 15 seconds? ) Error in electronic system. I understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure, excellent, only on condition that you told me which member it refers to. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Article 106) From the first to the last member, everyone. Is that right? Choose? Okay. The word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5676	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 106. – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted and who destroyed what is here can see in the situation where Marko Mandic, the DS board member, who was kidnapped by the SNS, is extremely employed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Please tell me by what qualifications, what recommendations... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5677	My colleague Milojičić, I really don't know what the councilman has to do with Article 106. I'm trying, but I hardly recognize it. The word has been given by MP Goran Jesic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5678	The Honorable Chairman, the third week that this law is in parliament. First, we started the debate. I don't know exactly what happened, but the minister was prevented from coming to parliament. What's worrying today is that today we're wasting our time talking about amendments, and then we have an insult from the ruling coalition, so people are being insulted here, so you're setting a break, so we're coming back after a break, so we don't know where we left off, so we skip one amendment, and we skip it, so we're not talking about what we're supposed to talk about here tonight. I'm trying, if you noticed, only to talk about what was the agenda point. For us, this law is totally unacceptable. To shorten this agony that has been going on for three weeks on this bill, we have submitted amendments and no one can dispute our amendments when we say "expect". We repeat this because the minister and her team explained that if that member is deleted, we have another law intensities, which is totally acceptable and normal. Isn't that right, Madam Minister? You can't defend us with that right and have someone interpret what we wanted to do with it. Yeah, we wanted to, and that's where we systematically differ, so we don't let private companies do the job they're supposed to do. We are against the introduction of the FTO on ships, because it burdens this business and we are against other things that we have submitted to the amendments. I can't help but feel like we've been here for almost three months, and we've got two hells of a law to discuss them. I can't help but feel that the deliberately ruling majority is making it harder because we don't have a better job to do. Before each session, opposition representatives propose laws that you reject, which are very common sense. Come on, let's put them on the table, if you don't have government proposals to discuss them in this House. Minister, you said, I'm sorry, I said it would pass the law. Yes, that's exactly what I was saying, and you said you were careful to take care of every act you're proposing, including this one, that you've made a consensus, you've made a public debate with those interested in this law. I know you've had meetings with the representatives of the port and they've had their opinions, they've accepted something, you haven't accepted something, but you'll let me, if you're changing the law for the third time in three years, then obviously we haven't made a law, or you haven't carefully made the law, you're not so committed to this bill. This is the third change of law in three years. Let me remind you three months ago, when he was a professor. Dragoljub Micunovic, as the oldest MP chaired this parliament and when he took a break about half a night on Friday. You held a press conference and said there was a coup and coup in Serbia, and today we have been discussing the law for three weeks and today we have an obstruction by the ruling majority that offends lawmakers. You can't say he's a thief, you can't say he's a criminal. If that's what you want, if you're so brave, go out to the pay phone and tell him he can sue you. You're aware of that, so you can't do it here in parliament. I'm asking you to talk about the laws, I won't answer any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5679	I ask you to return to the amendment. Here, for four minutes, I've released you four minutes of political speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5680	I have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5681	As long as you have four minutes, I've let you do politics. Now, come on, one minute on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5682	I've been listening to you all day. I've been listening very carefully all day and I listened last time... (Alexander Markovic, from the place: He listens, but doesn't understand. Most of the time, you understand. I'm glad the gentleman understands the other side. In any case, you have tremendous patience, Mr. Chairman. I'm not answering any more of these amendments. It is clear that we will not vote for this law and it is clear that the law is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5683	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5684	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can understand that the government has come up with no laws and that we have nothing to do in the Serbian Parliament and that this debate takes days and that the ruling majority, or SNS, is obstructing the adoption of laws that are on the agenda. A fellow SNS MP who spoke two or three MPs, absolutely didn't say anything about the subject, didn't know anything about what he was going to say or talk about the law and stories of things that had nothing to do with the agenda point. I'm the one who volunteered to speak by amendment. The political position of my colleague Arsic is that I believe that this amendment should be adopted and that Article 199 should be deleted because he says - the shipowner must organise security protection by contracting entities licensed to carry out the work of private security. We do not believe that ships must be required, that private security will bring them on their ship as they travel rivers through Serbia. We believe that foreign ships will certainly not work, nor is one such member of the law possible to apply. I spoke in principle of how pointless this is, and we were given as a justification for the amendment that the private security law found that objects must be protected from strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia or which are of interest to defend the country. I don't think foreign ships, freighters, going through Serbia are of strategic importance and essential to the defence of the country. These are foreign ships, which contain some goods that are transiting through Serbia and do not have to be subject to the Private Security Act in this case, I think it is a pointless and nakaradic interpretation. So now you're laying down a regulation that will additionally burden shippers with huge costs already in business, and don't, in response, provide that they don't have to take physical security, but they can only carry out protection. That's what I was talking about in principle, which means the crew must learn karate, aikido to defend themselves against pirates attacking them. So, I don't think it's possible to apply this law, I don't think it's necessary for a foreign ship leaving one country, that it enters every country to take private security, that no one will let private security on the ship, and therefore I ask you, the ruling majority, to understand the arguments of this country and to vote for this amendment, regardless of whether the Government has accepted this amendment or not, and regardless of what the Government thinks they simply need private security on board, because it is of interest to defend the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5685	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5686	Of course ships must have security. It's not just our opinion, it's above all the recommendations of the Danube Commission, not just in our country, but through all the countries concerned with the recommendations of the Danube Commission itself. If that's an extra load for the boaters, I agree with that part. I also said when there was a debate in principle, but first of all, it's for the good of the shipping companies. No one's covering anything up, you always have this conspiracy theory, and when you've called before, you've got it now. This law right now needs to ensure greater security and certainly better efficiency. Since he was another DS MP who talked about us being systemicly different and not allowing DS and disagrees with private firms getting jobs, I really don't know where the law says it's going to be private companies. What's perfectly clear is there's gonna be public calls, tenders, review processes, and nobody's saying they have to be private firms, I guess you know more than we do. When you say we're systemically different, it's clear to me that we're very systemically different, you're not bothered and you haven't responded to a single moment of terrible, catastrophic privatisation of ports that occurred primarily during the rule of the DS, and now you're telling us that you're not going to be dealing with private companies on the maintenance of waterways. It just doesn't even go with each other, but anyway. Serbia could and our ports could, Serbia could first of all be a logistics centre, if it hadn't happened with privatising the ports that happened. So on the case of privatization, we're going to show you how things should work and how institutions work and how the system exists. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-08-0.u5687	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that on Wednesday 9 November, tomorrow, the third special session of the National Assembly in the 11th Assembly will be held at the beginning at 10.00 p.m., where the National MPs will be addressed by Mr Roger Nkodo Dang, president of the Pan-African Parliament. I ask the heads of Parliament to ensure that the special session of the National Assembly is attended by as many MPs as possible. At the same time, pursuant to Article 90(2) and Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the third session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2016 will continue after the end of the special session, with the follow-up of the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. This is what we've done today's work. So, tomorrow's special session at 10:00. Resume this session as soon as a special session is completed.
