ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7488	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 109 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the continuation of today's work. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Radojić and Marko Djurisic. We continue the search in detail of the third item of the agenda of the draft law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in combating organised crime, terrorism and corruption. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, mr. Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7489	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, God helps everyone in our amendment to Article 7. The bill, we wanted to specify certain things that would be of great importance in terms of the professional qualifications of those who need to deal with this truly responsible business in countering crime, corruption and terrorism. Here it clearly states in its explanation that the proposed amendment would result in the High Council of the Judiciary taking responsibility, to guarantee the quality of the expertise and ability of the elected judges. It would also be achieved that the judges who will be tried for the crimes of organised crime and corruption really have the necessary knowledge in this problem, and that they are familiar with the ways that the international community is fighting these problems and the most powerful international attitudes related to this issue. So, what exactly did we want with this amendment? We wanted to specify the choice of judges, to increase their competence to deal with such complex issues, because there is no doubt that we have a problem in this sphere of our judiciary, which here, as we see years ago, does not bring strong judgments and does not solve the most extensive cases of crime, corruption and what it is, therefore, the cancer of this society's wounds. So, what do you think, Madam Minister, is the problem of our judiciary at all? Is it corruption, is it incompetence? Which is why we couldn't get through the existing court system to implement everything that you're now trying to solve with special specialised court cases. You know, if we in Dvora were a little sensitive to these growing numbers of specialized courts, for war crimes, for this, for what, simply, is too many specialized courts. You have to first answer me what's wrong with the existing court system, so we're forced to go to this court specialization.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7490	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7491	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should stick to the amendment, and the issue the judiciary has in Serbian, we can talk to each other at some other time. When it comes to the amendment that you have proposed to Article 7 and you are asking that the High Council of Justice give an opinion when it comes to the deployment of judges and the appointment of a president of a special department, I must tell you that the Law on Judges and the Law on Registrar of Judges exclusively prescribes the jurisdiction of the President of the Court, which are the affairs of the judicial administration, which primarily involve the allocation of judges to the appropriate department. Which means that the president's annual schedule determines which judge in which department he will act, which is also the special section of the High Court in Belgrade, which will deal with organised crime. Also, I have to point out that this is not about any specialised court, it's just about a special division within the Supreme Court in Belgrade. As far as your proposal concerns the criteria that a judge must fulfil, I believe that publication of papers in domestic and foreign magazines cannot possibly be a decisive criterion on the basis of which to determine whether one judge has sufficient knowledge or not to act in organised crime cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7492	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7493	I do not agree politically with my colleague, Bosko Obradovic, but I support this amendment. The amendment I proposed, one another, which the Committee decided was unconstitutional for completely unclear reasons. I asked the High Council of the Judiciary to appoint a president and judge at the Special Court. What my colleague Obradovic is looking for is to be the opinion of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I don't think you're getting into the essence and you really don't want to make any reforms. The law is generally good, but we have seen shortcomings in the application of that law. One of the shortcomings is that the President of the High Court in Belgrade is a god who decides who will be in the Special Court and who will have a double salary as well as any judge of a higher court. Since he decides for himself, it's his discretionary right and it's not good. So the President of the Supreme Court can decide who's in the Special Court. The special court and how special even though it was called the special department, it is very important and it is very important who the judges are in that department. That's why we all from the opposition are asking that the High Judiciary Council play a part in it. You're saying - it can't be legal. Article 52. The court-ordered law says -- the president of the court represents the court, manages the judiciary, and is responsible for the proper and timely work of the court. This does not mean that the High Council of the judiciary cannot give an opinion when determining the judges in the special department and when electing the president of the special department. So, if we want to prevent corruption, if we want to prevent judges in the Special Court being blackmailed, so this time and by the President of the Great Court, then we need to introduce the possibility that the High Council of the Judiciary declares it. And why are you running away from the High Council of the Judiciary, which is the highest authority of the judiciary, to state who the Judges and the President of the Special Court would be?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7494	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7495	Thank you. First of all, the High Council of the Judiciary is not the highest authority of the judicial authority. The highest court authority is the Supreme Cassation Court. I think you've had a chance, if you think that the High Council of the Judiciary or the former High Council of Justice should determine who will act in a special department, quite enough time to amend the law, but obviously then it wasn't a problem for you that the President of the High Court, or the District Court in Belgrade, determines who will handle the special department. Once again, I point out that the High Council of the Judiciary has absolutely no jurisdiction when it comes to the deployment of judges in any department. The only option if one of the judges is not satisfied with the annual schedule is to make a complaint directly to the higher court, in this case it is the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and in this way it is only possible to talk about the schedule and determination of the annual schedule of judges, which means that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is absolutely excluded when it comes to this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7496	Thank you. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. You've received an answer to the question you asked, but of course you can answer by amendment, but before you, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7497	Thank you. Of course, this amendment should be rejected because it does not comply with the Constitution and the legislative system and the Minister has made it very clear, and I think that that is quite enough to explain why this amendment does not comply with the applicable regulations. I just have to look back on something else. I really ask my colleagues to take care when they use terms – blackmailed, no one is God, etc., because they send a very ugly message to the citizens of Serbia when it comes to the judiciary. Then after that, we wonder why, listening from this home to such comments to the judiciary, we experience that Serbian citizens have, conditionally speaking, a negative impression of the work of the judiciary itself. The President of the Court is not God. He is a man who was appointed by the VSS in a particular procedure, suggested that he do his job clearly defined and in some way even mixed the VSS in determining the heads of special departments in a way that would be an upheaval of the court president's responsibility for the work of those judges he appointed and set up to work in special departments that formulate. So, thank you, and I ask my colleagues to take care of the comments when it comes to the judiciary. In this way, they insult people who work in the judiciary and thus bring and riot to the citizens for no reason whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7498	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7499	Thank you. I disagree politically with my colleague Konstantinovic, and in the profession we should agree, but we do not agree here, given that not only the business authority of the President of the Courts, but also the legal jurisdiction of the President of the Courts indicates that only the Presidents of the Court are authorized to set up a schedule and to determine which judges those judges who will work in so-called. specialized subjects, i.e. special departments. What wonders here is this, this amendment should intervene in the second law, not in the proposed law. It's the first depression indicated by the SPS. The second, well, this practice has existed for more than 10 years. For 10 years, there's been an entirely identical system. Nothing has changed so far and is now being sought right here where it is not to be sought, instead of being sought in the Law on the Order of Judges and the Law on Judges. These are legal acts where intervention is possible if there is any need at all and if it is rational, and we consider it not in the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7500	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7501	The replica of my esteemed colleague, Nedji Jovanovic, who mentioned me personally. Otherwise, the chairman, for you, the minister spoke to me personally when she answered, and that's why I asked for a replica. Don't deal with the form. Try to deal with the essence for once. First, this law is a lex specialis in relation to the Law on Court Orders because it refers to the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Don't convince the citizens it's a special department, and it's not a Special Court. We all know it's Special Court. There is no reason for the President of the Supreme Court, who was appointed by the SNS, and in 2012 the SNS came to power in this country and the first thing they did in this assembly, it was a change in the president of the VCC. First, you changed the president of the VX and governor of the NBS. So much for the independence of the judiciary and so much for the independence of the central bank, where you put the vice president of the party as governor. So, the SNS could have done something for five years. Do not honor those who were in power 10 years ago when this law was passed in 2003 which was not then or was then. We have determined for the past 13 years that this is a bad solution, because one man decides how many and which judges will have 300,000 dinars of wages or 200 and a few thousand dinars of wages, which is twice as much as any other judge of the High Court in Belgrade. So this is the Special Court and they have special salaries. We suggest from the SDS, from other opposition parties, that the VSS plays a role in, that it can give consent, that it can give its opinion or best of all to the VSS, which normally makes proposals for the presidents of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7502	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7503	The President-in-Office, I believe that the amendment should be rejected because it is inadequate, excessive, and therefore unnecessary, for the reason that the President of the High Court in Belgrade is handling the work of the court, and that means the Special Department for Organized Crime, but also responsible for its work, so I do not think there is a need to obtain the position of the President of the Special Court's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, especially you who are legal professions, there is also no need to specify the conditions which determine the necessary knowledge and experience in the field of fighting organised crime and corruption, because the acquisition of knowledge is not just professional training, what you have listed, and obtaining a diploma. Besides, experience, you haven't even worked it out. It's not the same experience and work experience. Someone can have 30 years of work experience and not even a year of experience. It's about quality. They're special categories. Honorable Vice President and Honorary Minister, I believe that the amendment is not truly comprehensive and that it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7504	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7505	Thank you. Just to be precise, given that the President of the VCC has been dismissed here, I must remind myself that a decision has been made by the Constitutional Court which has determined that the election of the President of the VCC has not been carried out in accordance with the Constitution. One more thing, since the president has been honored here, I have to point out that in 2010, and almost all of 2012, no president of the court has been elected, but everyone has been able to do so. So the question arises why someone did not answer to elect the President of the Court to the term of office he needed, but kept him in suspense by extending him to every six months his V.D. What's the status?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7506	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7507	Again, it is a similar matter where we propose that we also have a much more significant role of the High Council of the Judiciary and that, of course, we have judges who are and how you are familiar with international criminal practice and who are much more interested in modern developments in this problem. That is why we propose these things concerning monitoring different conferences, scientific papers in domestic and foreign periods etc. What's this all about? If our judicial system had been working up to now, we would have had trials for the most different corrupt acts, we would have had strong convictions, we would have had years of prisons for those who robbed Serbia in the previous 26 years. That's been gone for the last five years. So we're not good with that court system. What are you doing here? Nothing. The same court presidents, who have done this job so far, will now appoint judges in special departments. What did we apply to that? What did we do new than give these courts special status? What happened to 650 judges who had a SNS membership card and when are we gonna get proof that they dropped out of SNS membership? How many of them are there that you delegate here to decide everything, that they, as presidents of certain courts, place someone else in some special department? So that's the key question. How are you going to change the structure of a court that's wrong? By those same judges who have not done their job well so far, they will continue to delegate some new judges. That's why we're telling you -- the High Council of the Judiciary, that we have at least some correction of these proposals by your presidents, which, if it's true, 650 of them have not yet been cut out from the SNS, shake the Serbian judiciary as party soldiers in courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7508	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7509	Right to the replica, mentioning the party. Do you agree? Thank you very much. First of all, God help. So, again we have the same trend as yesterday, there's nothing controversial. It's never the least difficult for us to talk a little bit more about things here in extra time than two minutes. Thank you for that opportunity every time he shows himself to us. So, again mentioning the SNS in something that should again be an explanation of the amendments, and that's all just not it. I have to admit, it often reminds me, when I listen to the promoter in his discussions wandering around, doing everything except to explain what he should have suggested himself, the situation that Mr. Lane Gutovic once vividly described, interestingly explaining how to defend a complete failure in an effective way, so he says – it is true that we are missing the goal, but it is true that whoever misses the goal, he hits everything else, and of course we are not crazy to miss everything else. We're interested in everything else. That's exactly what I think the Proposer of this amendment is doing both yesterday and today, and every time he reports up, mostly talking about SNS, about everything, except what should be his theme. Among other things, the mention of some court epilogues is missing, so of course there are. Of course there are. If necessary, we can discuss specific examples. You might be surprised, if it were to conclude, that it was precisely the people I am working politically with, that it was the people who politically created him, who funded him, precisely those whom he is paying attention to today, and who seem to be paying that same attention to him, by supporting his unambiguously meaningful proposals. If this is an announcement of its kind of cohabitation, collaboration or some support in the presidential elections, nothing disputed. It just wouldn't be bad for other people to take care of you, if their president found out they supported another model, he might get sick, and I guess that's not what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7510	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7511	Indeed, I always listen with the greatest attention and satisfaction to representatives of the SNS who have not invented anything original for five years of government in Serbia, but follow DS and DS policies in everything. That is what I think when they talk about it, they should always keep in mind, especially when they mention former President Boris Tadic, whose help would never have been formed by the SNS and without whom SNS MPs would not sit in some former assembly of parliament, taking over the mandates of the SRS. So, when you mention the name Boris Tadic, you should stand up and bow down and say thank you for creating, Mr Tadic, the SNS, without you, we would never be in parliament without you, without you we would never succeed on the political scene of Serbia. Please, when you talk about DS with attention, you speak, because DS created you, helped create you by breaking the SNS and, on the other hand, you took over the personnel of the DS, I can count and list all of them. True, you took over Dinkic's staff, not only the DS, and you took over the Eurofanatism policy, and you are today the last Eurofanatics in Europe. There you are competing with the DS who will be a bigger Eurofanatic, who will serve the interests of Brussels more, who will be more attached to the EU, and now there is a big fuss and a big competition between you. Both of you know that without Brussels, you do not have the opportunity to survive on the Serbian political scene. That's why you pay the services Brussels gave you today when he congratulated Tomislav Nikolic for winning the second round of presidential elections three hours before the polls closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7512	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not said for nothing that everyone scratches where it it itches, nor did I mention the name of the former president mentioned earlier, nor would I do it at all, nor did I mention the names of any party. If he knows who he's thinking of when he's said, the ones who created him, all right, I can only agree, I don't mind. He probably knows that best himself. As for the relationship between the SNS and those former and their parties and various variants of these parties, I absolutely don't care to mention them, let those who today are trying to please them and gain their affection, unfortunately, probably very unsuccessful. As for these other SNS, reality speaks more eloquently than anyone. Let everyone, if he doesn't know anything at all, where the SNS is, and where the others who were her political competitors, be aware that some others are there, as well as their own merit and incompetence and all the bad things they've done, and because they had one SNS against themselves. It's our relationship to those we disagree politically with, and it says enough. It's completely inappropriate for us to have anything on that subject transferred to the one who's been scurrying with those guys. I didn't mention that former president, but when you mention those exes, let him say any more names, maybe mention the one who gave him the money, the one who made the printed materials for him, the one he couldn't even imagine in the city of Belgrade, let alone mention. All of this is well seen by the citizens of Serbia. It doesn't matter whether Brussels or Washington or any other city. Serbian citizens are wondering in this country. That's probably what you'll learn once, and those citizens have said what they think about Eurointegration, but everything else. They said in support that says over 50% in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7514	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, a replica, mentioning the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7515	It is really very interesting to watch Bosko Obradovic and Mr Orlic argue over who is more embarrassing to Serbia and who is more financed by Boris Tadic and the DS regime. It's part of the history of each other and I don't think that's the right subject for them. It is widely known that SNS formed Mr. Boris Tadic with Miki Rakic, but that did not bother Mr. Bosko Obradovic at the time to cooperate with them. You are talking about the elections that Tomislav Nikolic won, Mr. Obradovic, but at the time you didn't mind protesting with him, taking part with him in a farce or in the deception of citizens about some kind of election theft. The same thing you did with SNS in 2012 in 2016 you worked with DS. Then you were not ashamed to be supported by Chad, nor to be supported by Tadic, nor to be supported by Canak, nor to be supported by many others against whom you are formally. You didn't even mind being supported by the American ambassador. None of this bothered you, because your sacred goal of entering parliament is something that justifies everything. I want to ask you, Mr. Beard, who are you? You're saying you're a Serbian nationalist. A few days ago, you disgraced the National Assembly by bringing that Ustasha Pernar to this house and taking pictures with him, with your eyes in love, taking pictures of selfies from the National Assembly gallery. You brought the Ustasha. You're talking about Srebrenica, you're talking about "Storm," and whoever justifies crimes against the Serbian people, the Ustasha, you bring Pernar to the National Assembly of the RS. So before you tell anyone else...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7516	Time, Mr. Sharovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7517	Here I go. ... criticise, think about who you are. Who are you before noon, who are you this afternoon, who are you in the evening, what are your views?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7518	Thank you. Right on the line. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7519	I am extremely grateful to Mr. Sarovic for this extraordinary presentation, because this shows everything the SRS does not do in the National Assembly of the RS. I was even, as an opposition, maximumly correct in pointing to the public's breaking of the SRS by DS in my time and scurrying DS with SNS in breaking the SRS. What did I get in return? An attack by the SRS, and no word of the attack mentions the SNS. That's very interesting. How can the SRS forget Alexander Vukic whenever the opposition needs to perform and remember us from the opposition. So, I don't think that's correct and I think there should be some basic solidarity between the opposition. Attacking the opposition can be done by someone who is only in agreement with Alexander Vukic and the SNS. There's no other explanation. From our mouths, by the Dveree, you could never hear an attack on the SRS, but therefore you hear, and now you have had the chance to hear, a serious attack of radicals on the Dveree by nothing caused. Nothing, except for the agreement with Alexander Vukic to attack the Dvori because the Dvori are a threat to Alexander Vukic's regime as it is seen here in the work of the National Assembly, where we represent a serious opposition to the SNS. And as for the famous elections since Djurdevdan in 2012, I am proud of it and it will go into history as one of the great things that the Dvori did, boycotting the second round of presidential elections and opposing Tomislav Nikolic's election as president of Serbia, because it is one of the biggest disgrace in the presidential post in Serbia's history. And it remains as one big plus for Dvori, which they did not support, unlike many others, Tomislav Nikolic to lead Serbia and serve Alexander Vukic as a faithful servant for the past five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7520	Time, Mr. Beard. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, the basis of the announcement, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7521	Mr. Obradic, you obviously have a problem with the truth, and whenever someone puts the truth in your eyes, then you say - help, we are attacked. Someone's attacking the opposition, you're not a holy cow so you can't be told the truth. I said you brought Pernar's Ustasha to the National Assembly. Instead of answering that, you're talking about some kind of deal with Wolfie. And who was the stronger opponent of Alexander Vukic's regime? We, the radicals who are arresting, I am sentenced with justice for opposing this pro-European regime, at a time when you're going to the Wolf's Cannabes. While you are going to negotiate with him, while receiving you as an out-of-parliamental opposition, you will present your plan to rebuild Serbia against the floods. So who are you kidding? What do you think? Let's get back to the point. Did you bring Pernar's Ustasha to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? Did you in this way embarrass the entire National Assembly, the man who says about "Storms" – those who expelled Serbs from Krajina, during the "Storms" are the only Serb leaders, by dissipating fear of Ustasha. So, the perpetrators of the disappearance of Serbs from the Krajina are not Croats, nor the leadership of the then Croatian state. So Serbs in "Storm" fled from fear, an imaginary fear of Ustasha. There were no tanks, they didn't shell refugee columns, they didn't slaughter, they didn't kill. That's the kind of man you take. And when I tell you what you've done, you're a disgrace to Serbia, you say - assaulting an opposition. If you're the opposition, then I'm ashamed that someone calls me the opposition. They'd better call us yoga flyers than share any name with you because nothing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7522	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7523	Me, with you, Mr. Beard, it just doesn't bring anything together after all you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7524	Thank you. Two minutes. The basis for the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7525	Here, let's round up this topic. I remained a really long answer regarding Mr. Ivan Pernar and the co-operation the Dvori have with the Living Wall in Croatia, which in our opinion is absolutely justified and we stand behind it. The living wall is an authentic political option, an anti-globalist who criticises the EU and NATO and in this sense has a much greater understanding for Serbian issues and for us similar topics, than Mr. Vojislav Seselj himself said, his personal friend Ante Gotovina, who is a proven Ustasha and a proven war criminal, and a great friend of Vojislav Seselj or, say, a great friend of Aleksanda Vukic, Kolinda Grabar Kitarevic or another of the famous Croatian Ustasha politicians, such as Zoran Milanovic. So, before you throw a stone in front of someone else, think about what you Croatian politicians have been hanging out with and meeting and maybe not making Ustashas, unlike perhaps the only Croat you can find in the Croatian Assembly, which is an anti-Globalist, who is against NATO, against the EU and who once said something nice about Serbia. It is not easy to find such a Croat, and if the Dvori cooperate with such a Croat, it is a bigger problem for you than when you cooperate with proven Ustashas. It's called hypocrisy and SRS and SNS. So don't use the name of Ivan Pernar at all anymore, so we don't have to tell you who you've been hanging out with, who you're all meeting with, who you've proven to be Ustashas. I am not the first to attack you on this issue, I think that as Serbs we should have a single guard against what enemies in the environment are doing to us, we should have a united view on the protection of Serbian national interests and issues across Serbian countries in the Balkans and that our common goal should be not the EU, but the Serbian Union and the unification of Serbian countries in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7526	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I answered before that. You must respect the order. Let me finish. You'll get the word. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: But I will now. It's very important that I get the word now)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7527	Can I talk or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7528	Of course you can. I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7529	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I really don't understand what the problem is with Bosko Obradovic with SNS. Unlike you, Mr. Obradovic, we don't cooperate with people who have made statements like your John Pernar. It is your right to boast that he is your political ally. Great, I don't mind, but don't put us in the same basket with you and him. This friend of yours said about Vukovar - how many children did he lose his father for a war that brought only suffering and suffering? Many of these horrors did not survive, they were slaughtered. That's why the fall of Vukovar was cut deep into the collective consciousness of our people. When I say that "Storm" was ethnic cleansing, I mean not just action, but seeing the consequences of this action, which is the disappearance of Serbs from Krajina. Those who expelled Serbs from Krajina during the "Storms" are the Serb leaders themselves, by dissipating fear of, says "the Ustasha". So, the perpetrators of the disappearance of Serbs from the Krajina are not Croats, nor the leadership of the then Croatian state. So it's not Franjo Tudjman's fault. The Serbs expelled themselves from Krajina, Mr. Obradovic. It says -- over the course of "Storms" in the Krajina area, two hundred thousand Serbs were missing in the direction of Serbian leadership. Well, then says your friend Ivan Pernar for Bleiburg - at least 27 thousand people were killed in Blyburg, and when it comes to the subsequent killing, the number of people killed increases to 50 thousand. In my opinion, it can't be just a massacre, because the number of deaths is measured in thousands, which is why in historical textbooks in Croatia doesn't call it genocide and why our state summit doesn't call it that. That's your friend.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7530	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7531	So, Mr. Milicevic, they're his friends. What does SNS have to do with all this? When did anyone from the SNS hang out with people who go to Bleiburg and lay garters with shooting Ustashas, black shirts, members of Pavelic's body association?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7532	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, first of all, Nemanja Sarovic, the basis for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7533	Mr. Obradich, you have once again shown your true face. When you are cornered with facts, and the fact is that you brought Ustasha Pernar to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you begin to tell lies about how Dr Vojislav Seselj collaborated and associated with some kind of Ustasha. You specifically mentioned Anta Gotovina. We had, Mr. Obradovic, here in a policy of some uninformed, you were with them in the election, so I assume that the unintelligence has passed on to you as well. Dr. Vojislav Seselj didn't hang out with Ante Gotovina, didn't meet, didn't cooperate. He spent 12 years in The Hague tribunal for his politics, for his ideology, because he was unwavering in defending Serbia. Because he wasn't like you from today to tomorrow changing the ones he was going to work with, he was behind his words. How does someone explain to you what it means to stand by their words when you haven't done it in your life? You brought in a man who's an open Ustasha and you justify it by being an anti-globalist and once saying something nice about Serbs, so you said. So, who's an anti-globalist doesn't matter what the Ustasha is. Here's what your good Pernar, what's a little nice about the Serbs. He says – we were all wrong, unfortunately the Serbs most. And as in Jesus' parable, he who sinned most against you will love most if you forgive him. I have decided to forgive these people, and I also call on Serbs to forgive us, but also to admit that in Srebrenica they systematically killed people with the aim of exterminating part of the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7534	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7535	You have the nerve to appear here, to submit an amendment to the law, that is, a member of the law relating to genocide...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7536	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. This closes the circle of replicas. In line with Article 108, the National Assembly is chaired by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman. I think we should close this round of replicas and continue the debate under the amendments to the bill on the organisation of the authority of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Is anyone answering for a word? You want a word? Please sign in one more time. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7537	Mr. Chairman, I don't think it's right for you not to allow such a monstrosity to be responded to by someone working with Ustashas. I'm asking you to give me 30 seconds to answer that question and then explain the amendment. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7538	Please, you cannot use the notification based on the amendment to continue You don't even have a basis for replication. [[Bosko Obradović, from the place: I have a basis for replica.]] You don't have one simple reason... [[Bosko Obradović, from the place: How do I have no basis for replica?]] (Bosko Obradovic throws. Take it easy. Mr. Obradovic, you have launched a circle of replicas and, based on your presentation, a replica has been triggered by representatives of the SNS by mentioning both the SNS and the SRS specifically. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: No mention of SNS? ) Of course he can, but each of the representatives had equal and equal opportunity to express his views through replicas and about it... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: I am told to co-operate with Ustashas. )......................................................................................................... very well kept account, equal representation of all parliamentary groups, and therefore you did not get the basis for replication. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Okay, can you tell me what an insult it is? ) It is an immeasurable insult that you have sent to the SRS, which you have directed, truly immeasurable and I am not here to judge it, but to take care of order in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want to speak according to the amendment you submitted? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7539	It is not disputed, Mr. Milicevic, we can talk and as you wish, putting aside the authorities and those who co-operate with the authorities, but I will return to the agenda for reasons of course I have an obligation to defend the amendments proposed by the Dveri parliamentary group. In a concrete amendment to Article 11. The proposal for this law, we wanted to point out one problem that is now being opened by this law, which is a certain privileged position of prosecutors and judges working in special departments. So, namely, the privileged position to be looked at in the ability for judges and prosecutors of special departments to have a higher salary than the other judges and the question arises – is this both legal and moral and in any other way justified and should it actually be maintained the same and fair position as mentioned judicial functions by eradicating this said article? It is, of course, problematic that the government will be the bearer as executive power of decision on the salaries of representatives of the judiciary. I can understand and absolutely support the public that those most responsible in Serbia's judicial and prosecutorial apparatus have higher salaries and are rewarded for their work, but we don't see the results of this work, we don't see the results of the SNS government fighting corruption in five years, we don't see judicial verdicts, we don't see years of imprisonment for those who robbed Serbia. Why should we pay them higher wages when there are no results of their work, when we don't even know if 650 judges have joined the SNS or still as members of the SNS are at the highest judicial posts? Why would we raise their wages? Because they are members of the SNS and will still be the Government of the Republic of Serbia to raise salaries to its judges who are members of the SNS in certain judicial functions? Of course we're against it and we're asking to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7540	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7541	I thank the chairman. We are obviously meeting with a large number of amendments motivated by politics and that have absolutely nothing to do with the profession. We are even coming into the situation that, when we explain the amendments, we have absurdities to take the view that it is good that the holders of judicial functions that have an increased level of responsibility, such as the holders of judicial functions in special courts or prosecutors for organised crime, which is quite logical to have higher salaries, on the other hand, these salaries are disputed solely for political reasons, alluding to some kind of unhappiness. The reminders also work for citizens, for the sake of the truth, those who do not comply with the disciplinary rule are disciplined and that is the jurisdiction of the VSS. If proceedings are initiated against any judicial function holder under the circumstances and the facts to be determined, we can easily determine whether someone is working or not. But that's not the essence of this amendment. The essence of this amendment is that the government is clearly being attacked, that everything that was destroyed earlier in the judiciary is obviously being dissipated, and now it's trying to correct itself, and it's being corrected in a good way. These are the motives of the amendment. Since these are the motives of the amendment, then it is logical that such an amendment should not be accepted in any case and that not only this one, but all other amendments motivated solely by politics should in no case be the subject of any deeper debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7542	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Replica, please. I'm sorry, I didn't notice you answering the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, right to the replica, mentioning the party again. And once again, there's no problem and, once again, thank you very much. So, the question of whether or not it ever happened that we have some proper verdicts, is that right? I promised you an answer. For example, a response based on an example, published on 4.11.2016, says – recorded one president of a municipality that supports a prison sentence and began to support October 17th at the Criminal correctional office in Ćupria. What's his conviction for? To abuse the official position in the procurement of three playgrounds in time when he was president of the municipality in 2008-2012. I don't need to start by saying neither the name, nor where, it will be enough for those who keep trying to draw attention by mentioning the SNS that, miraculously, it is the political family of those who created it, the political family of those with whom he has been successfully negotiating today, trying to somehow self-recommend for some candidate in the elections that have not yet been called. Well, with that thing he's walking around, he's on shows. It says nice – I put myself at my disposal, offer my services. And the result? Well, probably like everything else that man does, one big zero and one big nothing. It's a shame he didn't have anything to say in the amendment. That's too bad, but not weird. If he'd read the answer, he'd probably have a good chance of doing it. I've already interpreted that chronic reading here as a certain laziness. But you know what? Maybe the thing isn't that, maybe, simply, man doesn't have time. Maybe he's too busy hanging out with suspicious political guys who after the sea and day and night to build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7544	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7545	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the same member as is found in the bill exists also in the current Law on jurisdiction and the organisation of state bodies in countering organised crime and corruption. What is important, just to be clear, this does not determine the height of the salary of judges and deputy public prosecutors, since the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors exclusively regulates salaries relating to the holders of judicial functions and their laws of origin already provide that VSS and the State Greater Prosecutors may decide that judges in the special department and deputy public prosecutors in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime may increase their salary to 100%. So to be precise, these provisions of the bill don't speak at all about the salaries of judges and deputy public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7546	Thank you. Mr. Obradic, the basis of your report is a replica? You have recognized yourself in words and words of what Mr. Orlic said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7547	This is one big and important thing that happened, that we can hear that there is one judicial verdict after five years of SNS authorities. That's good news and I say hello. It took them five years to allow our judiciary a judicial verdict in Serbia. It's a measure of success in SNS policy. True, I didn't think there was one, but thank you for this proof that there is one judicial verdict in five years of your authority and you found someone there president of the municipality. Great, there were probably a lot more of them, but I don't remember you being arrested or sent to prison by Mladjan Dinkic, whose prison work Alexander Vukic was wearing in this assembly. I don't remember being prosecuted and one of the DS ministers you arrested in front of the cameras, I don't remember having one judicial verdict one tycoon, whom you arrested and in the great fight against the tycoon in Serbia, you participated. In one word, I don't see a single big case that you've completed, I don't see a single judicial verdict of a serious fight against crime and corruption in Serbia for five years of your authority. If your measure is that within five years, the authorities have one judicial verdict against a president of the municipality who has misused the official position, it best speaks of the SNS authorities, it best speaks of your inability to really deal with the fight against crime and corruption. There will also be no help from these special departments, where judges who are members of the SNS will again be tried, 650 of them who have not been sucked out of SNS membership, who, as party judges today, are judging in the Serbian judiciary. So, I'm glad to thank you, Mr. Orlic, for admitting that there are no judicial verdicts, that there is only one and that you haven't solved any major corruption cases in five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7548	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Orlic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7549	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of Article 107(1). The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has already been repeatedly injured by the previous speaker, because such a senseless, rude and rude repetition that the judges allegedly are members of any party is simply inappropriate for this home, because we have never seen one single piece of evidence before. It's a shame to be very responsible, congratulating in their business to insult them in this way, especially from the home where we all sit together. I ask you to take the appropriate measures, which are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this has really gone beyond what is necessary, because in this way the most ugly message is being sent to the citizens of Serbia when it comes to judges who do their job with great honor and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7550	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Given that the Rules of Procedure can hurt the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, it is up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7551	I don't want to vote, but I really want you to take appropriate measures in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7552	Thank you. I agree completely with you, and that's exactly what I'm going to do. Just before that, and just before we close the circle of replicas, the basis for the replica is the MP Vladimir Orlic, due to the recent mention of the SNS. Afterwards, I propose that we continue to discuss the amendments to this very important legislative proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good suggestion, just one correction at the beginning, this is based on a personal reference, and thank you to whoever caused the replica that he left us and that other base, maybe we'll use it, we'll see. So, once again I listen to the amendment promoter and once again, as yesterday, as many times here, somewhere on the side like I hear those words – better to know a lot and know more often than not to know anything, possibly never, anywhere. So whoever doesn't know anything, so he claims that there were no verdicts, gets the information that he really doesn't know anything. Then she reacts with – well, now I'm a little bit. I don't even know what he's going to do with it, but he's going round and round. He ran off with his head no matter what, right through that door across the hall, but I have no doubt that somewhere in the chair he'll turn on the TV and follow this, so because I know he's listening to me, a question for him, and he can answer whenever he arrives, today or any other day. We're talking about dealing with those who have undoubtedly caused great problems to this country, who have undoubtedly been law-abiding. The question of whether there are any protected or not here, so any question of whether any of the tycoon has ever been processed, would it be bad to hear sometime if the last name of Miskovic was known to the man who pulled this story from somewhere? If he turns out to be familiar from somewhere, it can easily turn out that that very last name has something to do with the performance of his coalition partners yesterday, right here in this room, when they advocated, by the obvious order of the token, some amendment that should be helped by the gentleman in question. And who ever stood up to him and when? Something seems to me that couldn't have happened before the SNS. Never during the time of this country, unfortunately for all who live here, he and his coalition partners and all who belong to this deplorable mile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7554	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating Article 107, that the speaker is required at the session to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and I don't think he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7556	The 107th was just a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7557	Then 108, that's the order of the session of the old president of the National Assembly, i.e. You or the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7558	In 108, I mentioned a moment. He ordered a colleague from Komlenski on 108th, a few words about article 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7559	Then in 108, I advertise that it is the order of the session of the old President of the National Assembly, i.e. You. It's not right here to mention the names of the people against whom the proceedings are being conducted. If we mention the names of these people, are those the people who funded SNS in 2012 and the people with whom Sinisha Mali is with every day?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7560	You're just using what's inadmissible. You have reported on the basis of a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have shown through another attempt to deal politically with political indifferences. It's up to me not to let you and to continue the debate on the amendments. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7561	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed removal removes the adverse consequences, in our opinion, of this article, since it is not quite clear which motives were handled by the legislator when he provided for an unfavourable job internship for employees in special prosecutorial and judicial departments. We ask the question – why is such a possibility not foreseen for all other employees in the prosecution and courts, since we have already stressed that special prosecutorial and judicial departments are looking after some special needs, perhaps even in order and token, as one of the speakers said? It's an unknown termology in politics to me, but I guess that's what it was about. So we suggest that this member be deleted because not all the employees of the prosecution and the judiciary are not covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7562	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7563	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no logic that in terms of skills and qualifications, when it comes to domestic violence, certain persons and certain training and certification must be provided. How is it that the hardest job to do, the most complex, where expertise needs to be exceptional, to get expressions, not to ask for training here, not to have judges, prosecutors and cops working on this law, on these jobs, not to have certain training or not to have a certificate? Secondly, these special courts, special departments, appeals courts, this is an innovation that has not given the desired results, not even the High Council of the judiciary, not even the State's Major Prosecutors. Who are you now on the list for prosecutors in the election and can it be those who have caused hundreds of millions damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia? It doesn't make sense. This amendment corrects the error or failure of the Proposer. On the other hand, what are the privileges of people working in special courts and these departments? Do they have cars, do they have drivers, what are their salaries, and why is there a dissatisfaction between legal holders who do not work in these departments, unlike those who will work in these departments? Imagine, for six years, choosing a judge, in a special department there are five cases in six years and getting a salary of 200-300,000 and other privileges. Did they give the results of these special courts and special departments? No, they're not. Just zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7564	Thank you, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7565	Twenty-four privatisations made by the European Union, even Prime Minister Vukic stressed that this must be resolved. No dispute has been resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7566	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7567	It is not true that no training is provided for judges and prosecutors who act in the Special Department of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and special departments in senior courts and prosecutors in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and King. If you look at Article 24, you will see that mandatory training is required for all those persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7568	Thank you. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7569	Respect, honourable minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament. This amendment was actually asked for the Special Department of the Major Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, not in Kragujevac, in the cases of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, as the original legislative proposal was made, for the reason that Kragujevac was appointed as the centre of these activities in the Finance Investigations Strategy in 2015 and 2016. The King is absolutely nowhere to be mentioned. We have been given an explanation that it is better to educate the Special Department of the Great Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom for the area of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac because it owns the special technical and administrative, spatial and other capacities necessary to act effectively. Then we realize he doesn't own it. So, then we have organizational problems in Kragujevac. Obviously, I'm implying it from this implication. As far as I understand it, we can explicitly conclude that we have problems in some other prosecutions, because the state's major prosecutor's office sent a list of candidates for 29 basic and senior prosecutors in which the U.S. Attorney General is in late September. the situation and which, as such, is the basis for pressure on prosecutors who do not have a secure mandate. Why would anyone accept, say, to be a protected witness to a public prosecutor whose mandate is insecure because he's in V.D. A condition? A similar situation is in Novi Sad, which is one of these four cities where a special department of the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office should be educated. In Novi Sad, there has been a proposal for a senior public prosecutor in the government since November 2015, so now we see, next to Kragujevac, what is controversial with the appointment of a senior public prosecutor in Novi Sad. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7570	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7571	Thank you. It is true that in the Strategy of Financial Investigations, the Supreme Court in Kragujevac was listed instead of the Kings, but I must point out why we gave the bill a second solution. Since we started with the infrastructure improvement of capacities in the King and the Supreme Court in the King, the reconstructions will be completed at the beginning of 2017, so that the court will be trained, or the prosecution, to adapt to the needs of this law. When it comes to Kragujevac, there is no satisfactory infrastructure and accommodation and courts and prosecutors. That is why the Justice Ministry is working to start the construction of the Kragujevac Court in a recent period, where all judicial authorities will be placed, and this job certainly cannot be completed until the start of the application of this law. That is one reason why instead of Kragujevec, the promoter defined himself to be in the King. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7572	Thank you. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Djuric, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7573	Actually, according to my amendment. I'd like to ask the minister to answer the question about the prosecutor's appointment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7574	Wait a minute, you can't. Let me explain. If you were in the system the moment you wanted the word, I'd certainly give you my word. (Vladimir Djuric, from the scene: I answered, you did not notice me.) ) You were not in the system, so at this time you can talk about the amendment to Article 14 submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Believe me, if you were in the system at some point, I would certainly give you my word. You weren't, really. At the title of Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, MP Marko Blagojevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7575	I thank the chairman. The issue of the eventual formation of an organisational unit responsible for the control of corruption is, in our opinion, the issue of the internal functioning of the MUP, and we believe that this issue should be regulated by the internal regulations of the MUP and other sublaws. The legal norm of this question is excessive and illogical. We have been given an explanation among other things and that this specialization is necessary for the more effective repression of these criminal acts, but we believe that it is simply necessary to force institutions to do their job under the existing rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7576	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olivera Ognjanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7577	I thank the chairman. I propose that the amendment be rejected to Article 16. The draft law in accordance with the third part of the proposed law which clarifies the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering corruption. It is totally unacceptable to delete Article 16 when this member just determines how the organisational unit is acting to combat corruption. It is also very important that this member of the law determines who regulates an act containing the deadlines for handling and communication of the department of senior public prosecutors and the organisational units for the control of corruption, which is the minister of justice and the minister of the MUP. In this amendment, we are witnessing attempts to create an unquality law and failure, so the government has shown its urgency here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7578	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Blagojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7579	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are this bill of law given to us by the Government and the Ministry, practically introducing and specialized departments for the trial in the area of corruption. So we have organized crime, and now we have some special corruption departments. With this amendment, I ask that the judges who will judge in such a special department have some experience in the area of criminal law. You're refusing an amendment that we're asking the judge to have at least six years of professional experience in the area of criminal law. On the one hand, you're talking about the need for specialization and I agree with it to be a specialization, I think it's good, but if you're looking for specialization, come on, that these judges have some experience in that area, too. As you predicted, someone will come to us from a lawsuit to judge serious acts of corruption in criminal proceedings. There's a lot of examples like that. Come on, let's break up with this bad practice, instead of the most experienced judges, the guilty, not the litigators. That's why we've submitted this amendment, and you're just refusing it, we don't even know why you're refusing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7580	Thank you. National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7581	I thank the chairman. The proposed erasure would result in a double benefit. First, it would be avoided if the law stipulates that the public prosecutor's office employs a financial forensic scientist, since the problem needs to be addressed by the adoption of a regulation on the internal organisation, the systematisation of jobs. Secondly, it would be avoided that the law requires an expert in the financial profession to plead on legal issues for which he would be trained through a course of the Judicial Academy that does not possess accreditation from the competent state authority to deal with education of university educated people, and especially since the art of the financial profession does not possess the elemental expertise in the field of law which would then be upgraded by the above-mentioned training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7582	Thank you. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7583	In fact, by amendment to Article 19, we propose that the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the special department of senior public prosecutors for the control of corruption undertake to form financial forensics services, because we think it would truly appreciate the role of special knowledge from, as stated in the Government's proposal, finance, accounting, audits, banking, stock exchange and business in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences. These knowledge is lacking by our law enforcement authorities and the perpetrators of criminal acts are, as a rule, always a step ahead of them. The introduction of financial forensics services in the prosecution shows changes, innovation, and changes are mainly faced with resistances, especially in a very sensitive problem, such as the fight against corruption and organised crime. And just to help overcome these resistances, we think it's better to oblige the prosecution to form these departments instead of leaving it at will. The reasoning given by the government in the rejection of the amendments must be respected by the lack of human and monetary resources, because the government, along with the bill itself, has attached human and financial plans for the first five years of law enforcement and these plans already envisioned the employment of one financial forensic officer in each of the prosecutions, and the budget also provides for profits from some of the over 100,000 dinars net, as much as is obtained when the budget of some nine million dinars is translated into net monthly earnings for those five people. We believe that the commitment would sue that forming a financial forensics service would also be a kind of demonstration of the political will and determination of the state to face more seriously organised crime and corruption, and the rejection of this amendment could be interpreted as a signal of fluctuations in this determination.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7584	Thank you. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Blagojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7585	Article 19 regulates the financial forensics service. You've defined yourself as this way of solving some of the questions that are people's to say, in the area of ice-colding and research. We didn't want to change your concept because we don't like this concept, but how do we convince you, it's impossible, so we submitted an amendment to distract you just so you don't make an even bigger mistake. According to your concept, financial forensics is a civil servant. We just wanted to draw your attention with the amendment so it wouldn't be good if at some further stage of the procedure, and it's probably a search, it shows up as an expert. You've answered that it's regulated by a law that prescribes what warlocks do, who are warlocks, etc., etc. But I think you forgot about one thing. Say, you didn't look at what it says in your attitude four, which we didn't want to touch. You see, you need this investigator to get special professional education from the field of finance, accounting, audit, banking, stock market and business, and he's going to gain that knowledge at some academy in the area of criminal law. Well, then, since you've really mentally upgraded this, in all the colleges where this is taught, so there can be Megatrend and this banking academy, where we have the department of audit, accounting, etc., etc., for banks and criminal law. It's just that these were written by people who weren't even interns. They put in some terms, they put in some senses...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7586	Two minutes, thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7587	Thank you. If you carefully read Article 19(4), you will see that the training done by the Judicial Academy applies only to the area of criminal law, not to all areas that you have previously numbered. As to whether a civil servant who is employed by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime can act as an expert, I think it is quite clear that there is no basis for such a person to be engaged in an expert, and especially since the Code of Criminal Procedure exclusively prescribes provisions relating to the exemption of an expert, which would certainly be one of the reasons for the exemption and would constitute a serious violation of the criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7588	Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7589	We propose to the amendment that the Securities Commission, in addition to the Central Register, appoint at least one liaison officer to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and especially in the departments of senior public prosecutors for the control of corruption. In fact, the existence of a liaison officer in the Securities Commission is even seen as more important than the Central Register, because of the higher competences and wider scope of the Securities Commission, which is, in fact, the supervisory authority over the capital market. It may sound too harsh if I say that the Central Register is a registrar and the Commission is actually the one who is overseeing it. Market participants have an obligation to make manipulative actions from the Commission's application market, not the Central Register. The inspectors are sitting on the board, not in the Central Register. That's why we think it's much more important than the Central Register as required to prescribe a liaison officer in the commission, not leave it at will. The proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code include criminal acts of bankruptcy, false bankruptcy and damage to the trustee. We think it would be necessary to prescribe as an obligation for liaison officers to be at the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers and the Deposit Insurance Agency. During the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, various information may be available which would be of interest to the prosecutor for organised crime and to the special departments of public prosecutors for the control of corruption. I'll tell you that, let's say, the law on bankruptcy prescribes the obligation of a bankruptcy manager to take the killing of legal transactions and other legal actions taken up to five years before bankruptcy starts, if it's actions that deliberately damage trusts. These actions most often contain elements of organised crime and corruption, and therefore we think it would be extremely important to prescribe the obligation also at the Deposit Insurance Agency that manages bank bankruptcy and financial organisations and insurance organisations and in the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, that they also be liaison entities. Yesterday, we had a story in the media that the sale of the property of a creditor with large and valuable properties in downtown Belgrade is being made, that the bankruptcy manager has been changed, and that the sale of assets is expected to be in vain. That's one example of why we think this would be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7590	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7591	Article 20 discusses liaison officers, whom different state funds, administrations, agencies should provide for more effective co-operation with the Special Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. We have proposed to you through the amendment that these liaison officers should have a certificate of completed training to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, and the government says that this amendment cannot be accepted because the objective of Article 20 is more effective co-operation between state authorities. There is no logic, but there is no serious fight against corruption and crime, which the government has promised in all three its forms for almost five years and claims corruption and crime, organised crime, will come to a zero level. But unfortunately, both corruption and crime are present in all spheres of life, and it does not feel that it is in the least reduced, regardless of all promises. Without the liaison officer, there are various criminal charges to the prosecution of organised crime, which are clearly in the drawer because it is the regime's position on these criminal charges. Here, by who knows which time on behalf of the SRS I publicly ask State Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac – what about criminal charges against...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7592	Thank you. Two minutes, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7593	Well, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7595	So, I ask – what about criminal charges for all those responsible for signing the Brussels Agreement, from Stefanovic, Tadic, to Dacic, Vukic, Nikolic? So, what about criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic's fake diploma and all those involved?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7596	Thank you. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7597	Thank you. As the previous two amendments to this law I have submitted are the fruits of my team's work and me to preserve the Serbian language, since whatever this is about a legal form, and it is very important and perhaps even more important for the language to be precise and that there are no mistakes, even if it is about commas or commas, the wrong letters. I recognize the Department of Justice team in the eyes and the conduct of gratitude for the work of my team, but I would like to, because of people who respect Serbian language and who think that it must be precise, especially in the field of law, to hear and thank them loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7598	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 21st Amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7599	It's not that easy. These are impact holes, i.e. impact groups, as proposed by the lawmaker, one completely pointless formulation, completely out of the spirit of the Serbian language. Impact groups can be part of some anti-terrorist unit, it could be something that could be a good way of fighting weapons against someone who otherwise endangers it, but impact groups are just obviously a bad translation of the original text that was sent for translation and incorporated into this law. I suggest that one decent expression should be adequate, which is that they are not impact holes, as they are thrown around, but to use some expression that is operational, which is already used by us, which exists in many places. I think the proposal I've made is quite appropriate as a change. In consultation with some people who participated in writing this law, and they agree that the problem is that whoever translated the original text did not find the right expression, but that it had already gone into procedure and that it would be useless to change now. I think that both the present minister and her associates, hopefully members of the parliamentary majority, can understand the essence of my proposal and give this very important part of the judiciary on these groups the right expression within my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7600	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7601	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that we start, given yesterday's accusations that the amendment is denied and that these groups deal with me and see if I have companies or not, of course I don't have them, to see if I'm being treated with any proceedings, of course it's not being conducted, to get hit groups to check me first and see if I owe a tax, on this day I owed 31 dinars, so I made a payment. Since that's what they're looking for, I suggest you deal with the task force with me first. I ask that the amendment not be accepted, but that these strike groups deal with my fellow farmers, his companies, too, to deal with his evening school. That's what you finish with dinner, the better dinner, the better school, the better grades. I ask that the task force deal with corruption, the fight against corruption. The ones who came out want to shut me up. Well, that's lucky it won't be. They want to kick me out of parliament. Scott didn't get me into parliament. Someone else Scott kicked out of parliament, the one I always throw out of parliament with my discussion. So I'm asking these strike groups to deal with, say, non-existent colleges. You know, the evening school thing, so dinner and so on. These schools exist in India, and task force groups need to deal with it. Here where these cables hang, this is a thousand squares bought for three million euros in a building called the so-called building. ‘Trade Junik’. Those who run away know why they're running away. The task force should deal with this area in which it has been reportedly established since 2011 by Mr. Cosic, a member of the former regime's party, Mr. Jesic, then vice president of the party. It's a virtual college, a virtual college that's been working for five years, where there's no class. That is why this amendment should not be accepted. The task force should determine that two and a half million per year travel expenses are paid to students who allegedly study in the virtual group. The list is here, that I don't publish names, that I wouldn't have a problem again, because last time I didn't publish any name, but someone said I said something, so I could answer for what they said, and I didn't say it. If it wasn't for that, the lists are here. When the D.A. forms that task force, I'm willing to give this material away. These are the reasons why I should be silenced by those who decided to do so at all costs, not to bring up their affairs. Of course, that task force should exist. In the end, what they came out to say is that whoever challenges someone's right to speak and speak, it can be called a democratic party, but it's not a democratic one. She is not worthy of one Pekic, Nikola Milosevic, Kosta Čavoski, Zoran Djindjic and all other honest founders. No one's gonna shut me up, no one's gonna kick me out of parliament. Scott didn't send me here. I won't throw them out. They'll be thrown out by the people in the first election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7602	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't belong to that group that would silence the predecessor, but I don't see that what he was saying had anything to do with the agenda, but it's a custom, and I'm surprised that you allowed it. But let me go back to the amendment. Why did we propose to delete the amendment? There are two reasons. First, we felt that the formation of very unfortunately called strike groups was an organisational issue which should therefore not be particularly legally regulated. Mr. Zivkovic spoke about the unfortunate name. That reminds us of maybe that movie about prohibition in the U.S., the one "untouchable", so now we're untouchable, we're groups, we're something. What's important is that these strike groups, in the explanation that we got from the Ministry, we see that it's not organisationally envisaged how they're going to work, but that the issue of their work will be resolved in walking. So, another reason why we went to the proposal to delete it, because we don't understand their function, although it says up there that they should coordinate work between different organs, so that they form in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7604	Thank you. At the name of the member and of the 22nd amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7605	It's the same story about those strike groups, the holes. I didn't get it or didn't hear it, but I don't think I got the minister's answer. Why is she insisting on this expression? Does this term, proposed by these strike groups, guarantee a more effective way of fighting crime and corruption? Does this mean that this group's actions will be faster? Does that mean, if that happens, let's say that one such group can tell us who took down Savala, if it's a strike group, not an organized, good team? Is that going to solve any other questions for us? We see, let's say, we have news of a major legal, over a supply tender of 4,500 bottles of alcohol. I don't remember whether for the government of Serbia or for the government of Vojvodina. Would the task force be a better solution to detecting the needs of Serbian citizens at the moment, in transition to historical prosperity, that this must be watered with 4,500 bottles of alcohol? Are you ready, Minister, to tell me why the term you suggested or the government or whoever, but you participated in it safely is better than the expression I'm offering? If you convince me, I'm ready to vote for your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7606	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7607	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest not to accept this amendment because we need a task force. I don't mind having that task force deal with samamal, as my fellow farmer said in an attempt, but that task force, I was already talking about virtual college... The virtual college is located in a building that was built without a building permit, and nine buildings that were legal, under the protection of the state in Indjia, were previously destroyed to build a "Tq Sity" and to buy thousands of squares for virtual students for virtual travel to virtual students. Someone's got to answer for it, and I'm up for the task force to do it. I don't mind him doing the Savamal thing, but he's got to do what he's been doing in the D.A.'s office for about seven years. I received an answer about Goran Jesic, who in that very building provided himself a 250 square metre penthaus. Maybe the gentlemen want to keep me quiet, to get me kicked out of parliament, and that's why I repeat them, there will be no happiness. As for "Sablje" and "Sudden groups", it cannot be compensated by a sharp language and by my fellow farmer, it cannot be learned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7608	Thank you. On behalf of the member and Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7609	You, Mr. Chairman, have not yet ruled out Marijan Risticevic from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because of everything he has done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7610	You're the one who called in the amendment, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7611	Of course, I'll be right back to the amendment, but I'm asking, just to see how democracy is progressing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7612	You speak on the basis of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7613	So, the amendment submitted by the Devere parliamentary group to Article 24 of the Law concerns the topic we were serious about here yesterday, which is competence and the Judicial Academy that it is actually further training and professionally perfecting judges and prosecutors in Serbia. First of all, the minister hasn't answered my key question since yesterday, which is if the Judicial Academy is a good thing, why don't you commend the DS that introduced her into judicial reform? And if the Justice Academy is a bad thing, which doesn't end it and doesn't change who else is going to perfect and who's more competent, our prosecutors and judges than the Justice Academy? So you must be fair to yourself and to others. Is the Judicial Academy a good thing of judicial reform from the time of the DS? I don't think so. I think it's a bad thing and you're continuing the bad practice of judicial reform DS. You tell me if it's true or not? It's a very simple question. You can be hardworking and running away from that question, but that question will always be asked to you by the citizens again and again. Here's the question that we've asked in this explanation very precisely. We believe it is entirely inappropriate for the university-educated experts and holders of the prosecutor's and judicial departments prescribed by this law to train at the Judicial Academy, since the institution mentioned is not suitable for the assessment of the expertise, quality and ability of the abovementioned persons, and, as a matter of fact, it cannot be proportionate to carry out such training. It is also important to point out that the Judicial Academy does not have adequate human resources for the implementation of these trainings, both in the case of training of judges and prosecutors, and in the case of the implementation of the programme of training of police officers, and as was the intensity of the legislator contained in the position of Article 2. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7614	Thank you. Before we continue to work... (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Replica. You'll get the word of course. ... Not to enter the controversy with you, but simply for the sake of the public, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, is away from the session. Mr. Marijan Risticevic spoke briefly about the work of the task force and what he expects of the task force, when it comes to its activists and its work. I don't see any reason why I'd take him away from the session. On the other hand, only citizens are moving away from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that can happen in the elections. Thank you. Mr Risticevic, there is a minister before you, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7615	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have already had a few days to see how many MPs the Davery Group disproves the existence of the Judicial Academy, and must first of all know that training is conducted primarily by judges and not by employees of the Justice Academy, which means that they themselves deny the expertise of all judges and public prosecutors. On the other hand, I'll answer the question you asked. I think the Judicial Academy is one of the few things that the DS has introduced that I can commend. So I can't even hide it. So that I don't owe you an answer to the previous question, since you've been leaving the O.R., so I haven't been able to answer you about the number of verdicts that have been made in the special department and whether there's a single judicial verdict, or a judicially completed procedure, I'm just going to give you statistics that aren't fake, you can very easily check them out. In the last four years, a special court department in Belgrade has reached 367 verdicts, according to 892 people. Of that number, 346 judgments were legally completed, 14 in part, and those judgments were passed according to 768 persons. Which means it's not the exact fact that there's no judicial decision, but this just shows how many verdicts were made in the special department. In the last six months, even 65 convictions have been passed, of course given the period since their adoption to this day, we cannot talk about their legality, given the procedure conducted before the Court of Appeal, but for the sake of the public, to be true and clear that there are procedures that have been legally concluded. Most of these procedures are currently related to crimes against the economy and abuse of the official position.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7616	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Replica, the minister mentioned Dveri. ) You have the right to reply, of course, but before I allow and give the word to you, first of all, Mr Risticevic has the basis for the replica, because it is mentioned a little while, and you are mentioned among other things in the speech of Ms. Minister. You'll be entitled to a replica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7617	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the sinner without error, the guilty one without guilt, but I think if my political opponents often come out that I'm going to make them weighty, they won't need any fitness. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been looking for someone to throw me out, I haven't done anything in Parliament. If I wrote anything on Twitter, please, let Twitter suspend that warrant. I apologized even though I told the truth and the correct information, because it's unacceptable for my opponents to abuse and make sense of something, I should have known that they were capable of it. What I didn't know, I apologized. The one who won't admit a mistake makes another mistake. But on these charges, I didn't spit on anyone, I didn't curse anyone like they asked me to, I didn't ask anyone around the office to beat me up. I didn't wave a stick here and threaten someone like me to kill me like Lesanovic. I didn't do it, and I don't know what kind of violence I've committed. I didn't go into RIK and threaten to jump on the President of the Election Commission in the middle of the night, I didn't enter RIK as last chance, I didn't want to jump off the balcony. I didn't twist women's arms, I didn't do any of that. I haven't cursed a man twice my age, and I don't think I deserve that relationship. This is where Dragoljub Jovanovic, in his time, was also president of the People's Peasant Party, during the strongest communism, the communists allowed him to speak, did not go outside, later convicted him, but did not turn their backs on him or drive him out of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7618	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milomir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7619	Thank you, Chairman. I must indeed point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 107 and 108, referring to the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as the maintenance of order in the National Assembly. In fact, you noticed that MPs of one opposition group or more of them, as SNS MPs speak, turn their backs, come out. I must say that is not turning my back on Marijan Risticevic or any member of the SNS, it is a turning back of a million and 800,000 citizens who supported the SNS. We will never turn our backs or the number of Serbian citizens who have supported this parliamentary group, it is actually talking about them, their policy, their interest in everything that is happening in this National Assembly, in all those laws that have a crucial impact on the lives of Serbian citizens. As far as the strike groups are concerned, I must return, although I have reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, it is interesting that this task force, which hits the door every turn of the SNS MPs, is an interesting task force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7620	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a national letter from Branka Stamenković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7621	Thank you, Chairman. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, abuse of reporting after injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'd do the same thing, if you'll excuse me, so we can be one-one. Every time any of us turns their backs on you, they turn their backs on you and all the citizens who voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7622	Mrs. Stamenkovic, before we continue to work, first of all, I would like to ask you if you insist that the National Assembly in the Day of Vote be made known about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Then I would also like to give you one piece of information, and it is related to the decision on internal order in the building of the National Assembly, article 23, which says – recording and photography in the halls is prohibited, except for representatives of public information funds in accordance with the act governing their work. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7623	I, first of all, express my satisfaction that the SNS parliamentary group is behind the prosaclysm and the insolence of Marijan Risticevic, because it is proof that he is actually not saying what he means, but what he is commanded to say by the SNS parliamentary group. But more important than that is what the honourable minister was talking about, because that's where we're arguing, and we need to get that out of the way. You can list, Madam Minister, as much as you like. If you don't give me a high, large and important case of corruption that you've solved. You know who the heart of corruption is in this country. They're politicians, they're ministers, they're bankers, they're party leaders, they're the ones who make money out of public companies to their burassing firms, those who destroy domestic banks by giving them credits that have never been paid back to their godfather's private firms, those who, in any other way, receive high corruption in connection with tycoons, in conjunction with foreign firms, in conjunction with foreign banks. These are also the mentioned judges they are getting, and you have received material from us, where we have proved to you that judges in Serbian courts are getting special, favourable loans from foreign banks, how will they judge the banking clients who sue these banks? It's your heart of corruption. Give me an example that you have condemned. Did you condemn Mladjan Dinkic, who is the undertaker of the Serbian economy? Is he in jail today or is his wife also important in the SNS system today? Have you convicted any DS ministers of all the things you've been accusing them of in front of the cameras? There is not a single major case of corruption in Serbia for five years, and especially not the Miskovic case, because Miskovic financed the SRS, i.e. Vukic and Nikolic while they were in the SRS, and therefore there is no judicial verdict for Miskovic, who financed Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7624	Time, Mr. Beard. Thank you. The basis for the replica first is National MP Marijan Rističević. You're mentioned by name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7625	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not asking a coalition partner to defend me. I'm capable of defending myself. I didn't bring the alleged Ustasha to parliament, Mr. Sarovic knows better than I do. It wasn't me who brought him to parliament. It was someone else. I was not financed by Dusan Petrovic with money from agriculture for the party. He didn't give me 62,500 euros through the Association of Agricultural Economists. I did not hide in the library during the Martov pogrom, but Mr. Perovic knows, I went to Kosovo because it was the biggest Serb death. I didn't run away again in 2008 as a bookworm in the library, I was already against KIM independence. I didn't get into RIK. I'm not the one who made a party out of the church education organization. I don't think it's moral, but no matter what, everyone sitting in this House is my colleagues and I'm not avoiding anyone. No matter how many stones you throw at me, and I can make the biggest mountain, I'll always look at that rock to make a bridge not an obstacle, a road, and you'll still look for a hole in the tunnel, a hole in the road, so this task force, a escape group, a back-turning group, I'm free to say, and it's for nothing else, but to look for a hole, to cover myself with ears and drag. I expect only one after bringing in the Ustasha, that same church-enlightenment organization at its party party will bring Thompson to play for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7626	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7627	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand why Mr. Bosko Obradovic is so angry and nervous. And I'd have been doing what he did. This is his friend Ivan Pernar in Vukovar. The one with the beard is probably some kind of so-called. The Croatian defender, and this is behind you, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, that famous water tower in Vukovar, which the Croats consider a symbol of suffering and one of the main symbols of the Homeland War, and here is your friend Ivan Pernar. Ivan Pernar, Mr. Obradovic, was named after his grandfather, who was shot by Puniša Racic. I don't justify that crime at all. Do you know what Croatian Peasant Party MPs said to Punishi Racic when he was behind the pay phone, Stjepan Radic, Đuro Basariček and Ivan Pernar? It's his grandfather, if I'm not mistaken, this friend of yours. Isn't that right, Marco? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Right. ) This Ivan Pernar, the grandfather of this friend of yours, the great anti-globalist, the great anti-nator and the great anti-Serb, told Punishi Racic – come on, more Punic, says, stop talking about the blood you spilled on the Thessaloniki front. How much does that blood cost, that we pay in gold, so that you don't talk about it anymore, and then Puniša Racic, the way God gave it, took out the gun and killed it, I don't justify it, I'm just telling historical facts, Paul Radic and Djur Basarič, and wounded your great friend's grandfather Ivan Pernar. Now I know you're gonna be nervous all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7628	I thank Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7629	... I'm ending up because we discovered this truth and we're going to talk by the end of the day about you being a fake Serb, a fake Orthodox, a fake anti-globalist, that you're friends with Ustasha...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7630	I thank Mr. Martinovic. We've got a first known breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7631	He thanks the chairman. Please pay attention to the application of the Rules of Procedure because it is obvious that the search for political identity cannot be an alibi for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. This political identity is not only wanted here, but is sought in other places where recognition of all that political work is needed, citizens recognize. What seems very important to me to point out first of all because of the citizens is the following... Articles 106 and 107. ... First of all, the amendment promoter never spoke of the amendment at all, not at all. On the contrary, he spoke of everything but the amendment. Secondly, there has been a rude insult here, and I call on Article 107, those who are not the subject of the debate that we are having today, and these are the holders of judicial functions that are characterized as criminals, which are at the same time people who carry out training and do very honorable and professional and responsible work in one of the important institutions of the judicial system, which is the Judicial Academy. To insult people in this way, to humiliate and label them as criminals is inadmissible and it is on your part, Mr. Chairman, that should also be recognised in terms of sanctioning such an act and political action by at least a warning, which I think should be a practice in the future, rather than allowing such a way of working and showing that degree of tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7632	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a statement in favour of the vote on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Bosko Obradović, right to replica You will also receive the basis, but before you in the system was MP Bosko Obradovic. [[I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: I answered the line.]] You were in the system at one point, and then you were out of the system, so you called back in the system. So, since I gave my colleague Obradovic my word, I'll give it to you, of course. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7633	First of all, Chairman, do I have the right to two replicas, given that I have the right to two replicas, since Mr Risticevic and Mr Martinovic mentioned me, or just one?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7634	I'm sorry, I didn't understand. You want to repeat the question?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7635	It's okay, let's go. So let's resolve a few basic truths, because I am extremely glad that Mr. Martinovic started the story to tell some truths in the National Assembly of the RS. Mr. Ivan Pernar, Parliament's representative of the living wall, came to Belgrade at the call of the Russian agency "Sputnik". Imagine that the Russian agency Sputnik invited a Ustasha. Then, at the invitation of the Russian agency Sputnik, he came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we hosted him. Of course it's interesting that you kept quiet that Mr. Ivan Pernar was the only Croat who admitted that there was a genocide against Serbs in Jasenovac, and somehow you kept it quiet, and that his great-grandfather, Dr. Ivan Pernar, was the victim of the same Jasenovac, and you forgot to mention it. What's particularly important and dramatic is that you conduct double arches when it comes to diplomacy. When Aleksandar Vukic meets with a witness Ustasha, Milanovic and Colinda, then it is peace, then it is diplomacy. When we meet with Croatian anti-globalists, who are against NATO and the EU, it's a riot. Now, you see, that's SNS hypocrisy, the party that brought Rudolph Giuliani to Belgrade in 2012, who confirmed these days that he told the Serbs at that time -- they were supposed to bomb you. So you're talking to someone about Ustashas, or you're talking about anything, and you brought in a man who told Serbs -- they were supposed to bomb you. You're personal friends with Tony Blair, a convicted war criminal, who you invited to the government, and you're someone to talk to. And besides, he best characterized it, in his time, Dr Vojislav Seselj in one book, it seems to me from 2010, which was named Alexander Vukic Sanader's cat. Well, then, it's a picture of your relationship with the Ustashas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7636	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Right to replica, first of all MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7637	Mr. Obradovic, your obviously unclean conscience makes you keep mentioning Dr. Vojislav Seselj and the SRS. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, you can and must mention only with respect, because unlike you, he is a man who can be raised by his political biography. You don't miss a chance to attack the SRS. You, a while ago, agreed in the congregation hall that Vojislav Seselj was cooperating and meeting with Ustashas. You mentioned this Anta Gotovina, although you well know that Vojislav Seselj was a prisoner of The Hague tribunal. He didn't choose, nor could he choose how long he would be in prison and couldn't choose who would be in the prison block with him. Unlike Vojislav Seselj, who has never supported Ustasha ideology, you have, by your own free will, what your friend would say voluntarily, invited Ivan Pernar and burned the fallen selfies with him from the congregation gallery. So the fact that he's supposed to be an anti-globularist can't be an excuse for you. The man's a Ustasha. Is it more important that the Ustasha, that it claims that Serbs are responsible for the wars during the 1990s, that it claims that genocide has been made in Srebrenica or that he is an anti-globalist? What does it mean more to you? What is the basis for your political co-operation? Seeing that he is popular in Croatia, so would you like to be popular in Serbia? No consistency, no politics. The basic value in politics is consistency. You change your attitudes from today to tomorrow, from morning to night, and that's what your eternal problem is. When we confront you with the truth, and only we, the Serbian radicals, because no one mentioned it yesterday, you had all day and you didn't, and when we said it openly, here we are, everybody's smart. Well, that's what we're different about, which is what we can do when others can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7638	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the basis of the reporting of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7639	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Well, truth be told, I mentioned John Pernar and his... . (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: You were disfellowshipped by Maya, you could not hear. But I started talking, didn't I, Veronica? (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: You have begun.) Well, I've started talking, and you've moved on today, great. Well, then, I started yesterday, you moved on today. Thank you for that. But a joke aside. Mr. Obradovic, when you enter some historic debate, you know, it's not enough just to be boastful and rude without having any historical facts. Says Mr. Obradovic - Ivan Pernar is a great man because he said there was a genocide in Jasenovac. Well, Franjo Tudjman says there was a genocide in Jasenovac. Have you read his book “The Unsullied History of History ”? It was published in 1989. This book is an actual programme document from HDZ. By the way, this Ivan Pernar of yours, you know which party belonged before he entered the living wall? Well, Tudjman's HDZ. So, Franjo Tudjman wrote, slowly Verica, in "The Unspeakable History of History", I will explain to you later, in "The Unspeakables of Historical Reality", Franjo Tudjman wrote about Jasenovac – The crime happened, terrible and enormous, and he also had genocide features. And now, it was 1989, now in 2016 and you are now telling us the truth from the Gospel, you know, Ivan Pernar appeared at the gallery of the Assembly and said – imagine, there was a genocide in Jasenovac. Well, that's what the whole world knows. Well, it's just the biggest lunatics in Croatia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7640	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7641	... Like Thompson won't admit it. And what, now you're a great Serb for bringing in Ivan Pernar, who told us what the whole world knows, that there was a genocide in Jasenovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7642	Thank you. First, an orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7643	Thank you. I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2). - no MPs are allowed to speak personally. Chairman, you've already allowed it in sequence, I've spoken to you. So already in a row several MPs address Bosko Obradovic directly, which is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. As for who's a great Serb or not, we here show, first of all, by voting. So, you pleaded when you voted for the establishment of the Balkan Fund with Albania and Kosovo, with or without a star, it is irrelevant, and you will also very quickly declare changes to the Criminal Code, a famous member of the 40th, in which you will make the permanent Serbian people genocide. Whoever voted for the alterations supported that the denial of genocide be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7644	My colleague Janjušević, what does this have to do with the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? The founding of the Fund for the Western Balkans is something discussed by the National Assembly of the RS, most of the votes, very clearly confirmed that this does not in any way mean recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7645	No, it has to do with the charges brought against the Dwri in the absence of any other arguments. So the Dvori are the only highly national opposition, which is not useful to this regime, and that's why lies fight against us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7646	So you've pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're using this right to talk about topics that are not related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to the member you pointed to. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7647	Mr. Milicevic, article 107 has been injured. The dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7648	It has just been pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, of Rule 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7649	No, she said, Article 27, as far as I heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7650	No, no, 107. Article 27 in relation to Article 107, that's fine. This is by who knows which time representatives so-called. The opposition makes objections to the presidency because it allows discussion to take place in the National Assembly. I, Mr. Milicevic, want to congratulate you because I really think this is the way. If we cannot speak and speak to one another in the National Assembly, where can we do so? So, no offense was brought forward, the truth was brought out, the facts were brought out. What I think is a much bigger problem, is that Mr. Bosko Obradovic, in the absence of arguments, when faced with the fact that he brought Ivan Pernar's Ustasha into the National Assembly, is first trying to get away with it, so he says – sent by Sputnik agency. What does that have to do with you? Is that an excuse for you, Mr. Bosko Obradich? Secondly, I urge you to resign as head of the parliamentary group. If you are not able to protect yourself, you should be able to protect other Messengers of the Court, but Ms. Janjušević stands up to defend you, and to defend you from the truth, to defend you from arguments, then it is absurd for you to sit there. Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7651	Article 103, Mr. Milicevic. A few days ago, Mr. Bosko Obradovic boasted here, he says -- here, our US candidate Donald Trump won, and now you SNS traitors will see your god when he assumes the duties of the President of the United States, and it turns out that part of his team is Rudy Giuliani, both Bosko Obradovic and I and anyone else can think this or that, but the fact is that Juliani has made one of the biggest contributions to Donald Trump's victory. Now this is my friendly advice to you, Mr. Radovic, don't let Donald Trump hear you, you'll fall in his eyes. You insult one of his closest friends, one of his men running for the most responsible state functions in the United States. You can't love Donald Trump without loving Rudy Giuliani. Donald Trump can't rule America alone. You know, he has secretaries, state secretaries, assistant secretaries, etc. The U.S. administration is numerous and in this administration there is also a place for Rudi Đuljani, unless Donald Trump decides to take Bosko Obradovica into his administration, since he already has one adviser, this is Jasmina Vujic. Well, if he already has Jasmina Vujic, he should also take Bosko Obradovica, so Bosko Obradovic can advise him on foreign policy. I think that's fair. I'm just saying, Mr. Beard, a little less nervous, a little less acuity in the discussion. You don't listen to yourself very often. So Donald Trump goes in a package with Giuliani, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7652	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Before we continue to work, Mr. Sarovic, I forgot to ask you for a moment – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Mr. Martinovic, do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote to be exposed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7653	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if those who turned their backs on me start spitin' on me again, they'll spit over my head. There's a danger of spitting on themselves. But it's far less than what they wrote. They say I am also responsible for what I did not write on Twitter, and they wrote to Marijan Risticevic: “I would rip out his throat, and I wouldn’t blink. “ Tatjana Macura: “Believe – he is not worthy. “ The other one in that movement, ” she says, “they never had enough of it, and my throat, says: “I know it’s not, but, for example, she’s a courtwoman atlagic to watch. “ That’s how they write about me, and they’re against violence. So says Goran Jesic: “If one day, which is ever closer, we go home and get these bots out for our ears and some journalists! To threaten! “ So these are the people who want to attribute violence to me. Yesterday one tried to credit me with economic crime, tax debts. I really owed 36 dinars. It's been paid today. I've been given the assurance that I don't owe any taxes. They said I've got a criminal history, and here it says I'm not being prosecuted. They also said I had companies. I received confirmation from the APR that since this Parliament was established from 31 May 2012 until 23 November, I have been informed – the physical face Marijan Risticevic is not registered as a member or representative of a company in the period from 31 May to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7654	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7655	Wait a minute. So, multiple times they tried to insult me, they kicked me out of parliament. These are my factories, these are my fields...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7656	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7657	Just wait till I'm done. They want to throw Mr. Pernar in and throw me out a Serb. I don't know what kind of Serbian organization this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7658	Thank you. Given that I think that we are too far away from what is the topic and point of the agenda, at this point, in accordance with Article 112 which says clearly – if the president of the National Assembly can't maintain order at the session regularly, he will set a break until the order is established, to set a five-minute break. After that, we continue on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7659	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's sent by Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7660	What member after the noise? Article 24. It is a question of training, and in this article my proposal is to amend attitude 1 and attitude 2 so that after saying: "permanent training" puts an end and not favour the Judicial Academy. Whoever founded it does not exist either in the constitutional-law system or in Serbia's education system. What's that? Who's going to educate people? You say, no, people who work there. Then why the Justice Academy? Then the Department of Justice can create one section, one task force for education, and then educate. Of course, it's better operational than impact. Why was that founded? I don't know. But what's being said in public, first of all to the judicial, legal, is that it's a filter for party personnel, so 10 years ago it was for one party staff, that today it's for some other party personnel. In any case, whether the Judicial Academy is the top of wit, skill and experience of legal science and practice in this Serbia. If anyone can prove it to me, I'm for favoring and writing in this law, but if not, let's see if anyone else can do those jobs. Like law schools, say, some other organizations that deal with law, and there are institutes. Why is the Justice Academy, that, uh, thread is a girl, or a fish, that hangs somewhere in between. What's it for, except for a selection of party, small-time staff who are supposed to be big tomorrow...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7661	Time, fellow Zivkovic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7662	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so, of course, I'm going to suggest that we reject this amendment. In any case, the permanent training of anyone who deals with some kind of work, let alone the carrier, when it comes to judicial officials and police officers, is never a waste. The amendment itself doesn't define who it is who's going to be training unless it's a judicial academy. So perhaps we can conclude that a car school will do the same. However, I remain on the subject of learning while he is alive, and that his constant training is necessary, such as the necessary training in this historic political sense when you bring someone into this respected home to take care of who this person is, what is the history of his actions, what are the attitudes that he represents, and not by bringing these and such people to your face, all those victims of the 1941 genocide to the victims of Jasenovac, Jadovna, and that you are in fact representing the views of some great Serb and probably the holder of the deed to heart and patriotism in this country. Well, that's why I think training is good and welcome in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7663	You don't have the right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. On what basis did you seek a replica? (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Well, he called me. No one called you Mr. Obradich. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7664	If we go over this fifth part, which is the co-operation of the state authorities, we have these liaison officers, it's for corruption, Article 20, so we have these impact groups, and then we have the handling of impact groups, so the composition of the task force, we come to the part of the sixth that applies to training. We have proposed, by amendment, that part of these teams that deal with these most serious forms of crime, that the police department finish training at the Criminal Police Academy. Unlike those who do these same jobs, and the training ends at the Judicial Academy, they would have to learn to shoot and arrest and bring them in. If they're in the D.A., where prosecutors and judges are, they don't, it wouldn't be good if forensics, investigators, investigators, cops didn't know how to arrest. That's why it's good for their part of the training to be done at this second academy. However, there has obviously been total confusion and evidence, evidence, what can be done, how can be done. You're going to adopt this. We'll see what comes out of this. I don't know why you accepted this concept of law. I don't know why it's so important the way an investigative team is going to work to rise to the level of legal norm when there's no danger of human rights, because all these safeguards are already in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in other regulations. I get the impression that this has been brought in so that those in Brussels understand that we are on our way to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7665	Thank you. Mr. Beard, on what basis? (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Time of Power. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7666	First of all, I want to support the amendment proposed by my colleague Krasic, because it is precisely on the trail of what the Dvori discussed both in principle and in particular, that you are just passing a law for certain old people that you could solve with basic sublaws, basic inter-resorial co-operation, coordination and other ways, to speed up and finally speed up and regulate a serious fight against crime and corruption in Serbia. It's probably the reason for this orchestrated attack by SNS and others on the Dvera because we point to that heart of a corrupt system that you can't say anything about, and that's the relationship between banks and courts... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7667	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the scene: and that is those 650 judges who did not join... And now you're turning off my microphone. I'm turning off your microphone so I don't give you a warning, because you're not talking about the amendment. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: How am I not talking about the amendment? I just supported the amendment. You just supported, in two sentences, then you started talking about judges and... (Bosko Obradović, from town: Excellent. And what's so controversial about that? ) No, the amendment concerns the Judicial Academy, replaced by the words "Crime Police Academy". What does that have to do with judges? (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: It is best for you to determine what I am going to say. You want to talk about the Justice Academy? Go ahead, ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7668	So, not only have we given you the competence of the Judicial Academy to train our police in the previous amendment, but you continue to convince us that the Judicial Academy, otherwise the company of the Justice Department, is one great thing, which not only can professionally perfect our prosecutors and judges, but here can be the criminal police, or police officers at all. So that's what I'm talking about. Are you finally going to change the bad things in the justice system inherited from the DS, or do you think the DS has done the right justice reform? Simple question. If it is the right reform of the judiciary, say it and say it - we continue the DS policy. Why are you so ashamed of yourself? Well, you are Eurofanatics, as well as Democrats, you are for the Brussels agreements, as well as Democrats. Here, you say-- the judicial academy is the real deal. If it's not the right thing to do, so let's change something about that judicial reform that's been left to us in the legacy of DS as a bad thing, and you're not changing it. On the contrary, you're adding new powers, new responsibilities, new tasks to the Judicial Academy, to train and train prosecutors, judges, police officers. That's what I'm talking about. So, will you once give up the bad things that the DS did, or are you just a policy builder of DS? Which is fine, but you have to admit, it's okay in terms of nothing has changed, we've changed power, but it's the same policy, but it has to be known. Like this, you're very short, you barely talked like that -- yes, the Judicial Academy is a good thing. No, yeah, judicial reform DS is a good thing. That, Madam Minister, I expect you to say, but you're avoiding it because you know that the people don't like DS and the time of its power, so somehow you'd avoid doing what the DS does.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7669	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7670	There's a lady minister here as at the hearing - come forward, plead. Please state yourself, Mr. Obradovic, are you the continuation of the Croatian Peasant Party's policy, Franjo Tudjman and HDZ?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7671	I'm just asking you without a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7672	As far as judicial reform is concerned, you know very little about it. It is not the essence of judicial reform from 2008 and 2009 to introduce a judicial academy. It's the most banignant thing that's ever happened. The biggest problem with this so-called reform of the judiciary is that a large number of judges have been resolved and the constitutional principle of the continuity of judicial office has been questioned and that people have been resolved without reason and therefore the Constitutional Court has returned that reform to the beginning and all these judges have been returned to work. There was no question at all about any judicial academy as a fundamental problem with judicial reform. You got hold of the Judicial Academy because obviously nothing but those few floscules - the Judicial Academy, the SNS, Alexander Vukic, anti-globalism, we're this, we're what, you're nothing else and you can't say. At the beginning of your presentation, I listened carefully, you said one amazing thing. Come on, because you don't understand Serbian language and literature, we've heard this many times already, although you're supposed to be a professor of Serbian language and literature, at the beginning of your presentation you said -- what you need this law for, it can be regulated by sublaws. Fighting crime? Watch this -- fighting crime can be regulated by sublaws. At the first year of law school, students learn the Latin Maximus of Roman law - zeroum crimen zero foam son of lega, no criminal act and no penalty without law, and Bosko Obradović would be sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7673	Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7674	As much as we are in matter, as much as you are in pain with the subject of the Judicial Academy, I will confirm on the following case, that the Judicial Academy is not at all a non-important matter of judicial reform from the time of DS because the Judicial Academy was created by NGOs like so-called. The judicial centre, which Soros was behind, is in fact a key role in the impact of reforming the Serbian judiciary. So you don't mind Soros reforming your judiciary. You have not changed anything in five years of Soroshe's reform of the judiciary, and it is obvious that as your party president, Aleksandar Vukic, a friend of Eddie Ram, such as Sanader's cat, as a friend of Rudolph Giuliani, who said he should have bombed you, such as a friend with Blair, who is a convicted war criminal, such as a friend with a witness to Croatian Ustasha politicians such as Zoran Milanovic or Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. So, don't talk about friends with Ustashas, because you've made many such friendships, and much worse these friendships with convicted war criminals, because the Dvori didn't support Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, but Alexander Vukic when he visited Bill Clinton's Foundation, otherwise also a convicted war criminal. I don't know how much longer to list the war criminals you're friends with that you're friends with to embarrass yourself and shut up, because really, being a friend of Tony Blair, being a friend of Hillary Clinton, it can only be Alexander Vukic, it can't be a Serb in this world. So, please, when you say something to someone else, and when you resent someone else, look first into your own eye, Christianly speaking, look for the thorn in the eye of the Dvora, and you have a beam in the eyes of the SNS and you can't see who you are friends with and instead of being ashamed of who you are friends with, you teach someone else a lesson.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7675	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7676	First of all, Mr. Obradic, don't let Soroš hear you, otherwise he'll turn you over to the tap, so you won't have anywhere to finance yourself. Tell me, please, when anyone from SNS took a picture, he kissed and hugged a man who made these statements. I don't know if I've read this statement, he's been giving a man a light of some statements, anti-Serb. Maybe I skipped this statement, this friend of yours, John Pernar. Oh, yeah, there she is. What does your friend say? "For those who do not believe, Serbian leaders have called on Serbs to evacuate, i.e. abandoning their homes, leading to the disappearance of Serbs from the Krajina area, that is, ethnic cleansing, the Croatian army," says your friend Ivan Pernar, “the Croatian army did not banish those people. They themselves fled from fear of possible retribution and at the invitation of their leadership. “ Then he says, “I stress that the Croatian army was correct, ” Marko, if you listen to this, “I stress that the Croatian army treated all the captured soldiers of Republika Srpska correctly in “Storm, ” and did not retaliate against them. Five thousand troops from a group surrounded by the 21st Korduna Corps of the Serbian Army of Krajina, under the command of Colonel Ceda Bulat, laid down their weapons before the Croatian army. Neither of them was tortured nor killed." Unlike you, Mr. Obradovic, who you have no idea about what happened in Krajina, most of these people with whom the Croatian army, according to Ivan Pernar, treated humanely, do you know where they ended up? In the Ironworks in Sisak, half of them were burned alive. Here, these are your friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7677	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7678	I invite you, Mr. Obradovic, when the next year Ivan Pernar is going to Bleiburg to lay vences with the shooting Ustashas, let him take you, too, to see the little world.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7679	In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7681	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we ask this amendment that all those involved in the repression of organised crime must report property under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. There is no reason for you to define a different way of dealing with persons dealing with the repression of organised crime, rather than with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. That law also defines a circle of faces. Perhaps this law will also change, so it will change the circle of the person and there is no reason for you to narrow down in advance for these persons to whom the Law on Organized Crime and the Circle of Persons should report property and how often they should report changes, not just at the beginning of the term of office. So it was much easier to apply to the Agency Act, which you essentially inherited. As you said yourself, you also inherited the Judiciary Academy, you inherited the High Council of the Judiciary, you inherited the State's Major Prosecutors, you inherited the Act of Disposal of Assets. Exactly what Bosko Obradovic says, absolutely what was done in the reform, it continues and discusses further. Because I'm not satisfied that it's not well enough to sort out, and I think that there should be a lot more to change and improve, given that time shows some shortcomings. So I can certainly commend you for expanding the jurisdiction of the Judicial Academy. The Judicial Academy is one of the important things and it gives one good way, predicts a job the Judicial Academy is dealing with. Also, I ask you to accept this amendment that all of them, otherwise, apply to the Judges to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but all those you have now introduced by this law, are also subject to the rules prescribed by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and not to invent any new rules for reporting property in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7682	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7683	Thank you very much. I ask that this member be deleted because its survival in this law, the bill creates certain special conditions for the very easy abuse of certain procedures concerning, to make it clearer to citizens, to use BIA and other intelligence services in the past, the present, and possibly to create the future of some people who need to work in bodies that need to deal with organised crime and corruption. There are already enough regulations in the law on security agencies, enough members, enough opportunities for these agencies to do their jobs. The same goes for the police. That goes for the DA's office, too. There's no need to put this in this law in particular. There's already been a lot of over-noding. If something else is already being solved, why would it be re-solved by this law? That is the basic reason why I think not to accept this amendment would lead to human rights being threatened to a level that is so inadmissible very much. On the other hand, also, abuses in the degradation of people who are doing their job seriously, and would be members of these strike groups or already in their positions, according to their positions in the judiciary and police. Therefore, let us leave that topic to be resolved, as already resolved by the positive regulations and not to introduce a special member of the law from that area into this law that is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7684	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7685	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this provision of the law is not new and it exists under the applicable law. I don't understand whether you are in favor of total erasure, given that in your amendment you only call for the erasure of one of the seven positions in Article 26. On the other hand, this position is also written in line with the opinion delivered by the BIA, and given that there is also an obligation for a person referred to in a special department or the prosecution for organised crime before his written consent, we believe that he is in full knowledge of what types of checks precedes him before deciding whether he will be directed to work in this department. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7686	I don't understand why, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Minister said she did not understand what I mean. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7687	So, I think you know of the very thoughts, since it's a very precise amendment, it's called what attitude. Therefore, it would be very bad if you didn't understand. It probably came out as a post-op, but generally you didn't give me any more reason to believe that your solution was better by saying that it was on the BIA proposal and in a positive opinion by the BIA. I mean, we're not going to talk about this organization today, but the consequences of its operation over the past few years, I think the Serbian public knows a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7688	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another note might be useful. She's quite well noticed by the Minister. This is technically not good, not just because of what was heard in the explanation. The problem is in attitudes. It is proposed to delete item 2 and not to propose to delete item 3 in which the content of item 2 is mentioned. I think it's more than clear why this can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7690	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7691	It's this famous member who's defined since this law should start to apply. As you know, the law came by emergency procedure in procedure, and, behold, the application of the law is defined for 1 March 2018. Whoever's got a math problem, it's almost a year and a half. Why is it so urgent that through an emergency procedure we get this law to decide if it is applied only for a year and a half? Why is it so important that we work without a break today from working hours to six hours so that this law is passed today, and it will only be applied for a year and a half? Of course I'm sure that in the Justice Department, there are people in other state bodies who can create conditions for the implementation of this law within six months. So I proposed that he be valid from June 1st of next year, not March 1st of that year. The reason we're working today until the law is passed is just one. Tomorrow is the last Thursday of the month, so someone would have to come and answer questions, and not just from domestic violence, but also from questions that are violence against the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7692	Mr. Zivkovic, what does this have to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7693	I propose a shorter deadline because the promoter is going through an emergency procedure, you are holding a session so that we stay until half the night to vote, and the law has not been applied since 2018. Until then, what would the people say – who lives, who dies, in political but not just political terms. What can happen in the meantime, that God knows, or whoever, Allah, or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7694	Thank you. Time's up. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Another sentence. Time's up, and what did you take me 10 seconds before the time? You're not in 10 seconds. You have more amendments, you'll be in touch. We're working today to make up for the time lost on Friday because of that circus some MP groups made here in the Assembly. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7695	Thank you. Let me explain why the proposer proposed that the application of the law begin in 2018. Given the structural change that needs to be made in the context of senior prosecutors and that we are in a phase of reconstruction and construction of individual buildings, in which the work will be carried out by special prosecutors, it is necessary that we have enough time to access this. On the other hand, the urgent procedure was because we also have an obligation from the Action Plan, and the European Commission's Progress Report has just been distracted that there has been no time for the adoption of appropriate legislative acts, so that one of the obligations we have to implement the Action Plan for Chapter 23 to adopt the laws with which we are already late. Of course, these laws should also be adopted in order to have a legal basis for competent institutions to bring in appropriate training programmes and to conduct in good time the training needed, both in courts and in the prosecutions, and the police who will act in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7696	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7697	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, we are indeed coming to the essence of what we have been telling you all these days at the end of this debate, which is that the SNS exists exclusively in political future. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7698	Mr. Obradovic, you're not talking about the amendment here, you're not talking about the law, you're only talking about one thing as a goal, which is to provoke SNS MPs to go into duels and replicas with them. There's nothing else you want. So, the proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not the Serbian Progressive Party. When there are laws proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, I don't mind you expressing yourself that way. But please talk about the amendment and the points that are on the agenda. Of course, you have the right to a political message, but your speech is just political messages, it has nothing to do with the essence of the law. Please ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7699	Let's start over. So, I support the amendment of fellow MP Zoran Zivkovic, for the simple reason that I want to oppose the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy that is constantly delaying the implementation of the most important activities in the fight against corruption and crime. It's a very simple thing. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, promised us five years ago to fight crime and corruption. Now it's delayed by this law for another two years. So it's a total of seven years as long as there will be no fight against crime and corruption in Serbia, while this government is headed, with this Prime Minister who has been in power for five years. What does this amendment say? The amendment says it simply reduces that deadline, that your specialised prosecutors and judges work faster, to speed up the fight against crime and corruption. And you say, "No, there's no need for this to go fast, you can do it in two years." So, you state the amazing thing, that this law is beginning to apply from 1 March 2018. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, is delaying the fight against crime and corruption until 1 March 2018, in accordance with the law. What does that mean in practice? This means that after five years, the authorities admit that you have done nothing in the fight against crime and corruption, as the minister said now – you have no trained judges, no trained prosecutors, no trained police officers. It turns out that five years of your authority has been used for nothing. You didn't train anyone to fight crime and corruption, and we all remember that guard task force that Alexander Vukic formed at the time he was vice president of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't think anyone believes in this room that Ivica Dacic was ever the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, of course, that Vukic was the third time the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, then promised us a task force, then he promised to fight crime and corruption, and here, for five years there is no such thing. Now that you've decided to pass the law, after five years, you're delaying its application for another two years. Now, that's the political futuristism I was talking about, which specifically means -- here, we're about to solve something, so we can't solve it for seven years. So, seven years without fighting crime and corruption, that's what you're confirming by this law. You will adopt that for seven years there is no fight against crime and corruption in Serbia and to confirm that these five years lost, too, is no big deal, that we can lose two more years. And then when the opposition proposes an amendment in which it says -- come on, people, speed this up a little bit, can it function faster than you suggest, from specialized courts, prosecutors and I don't know which police training, you say -- there's no need. No need for haste, let all the tycoons, all the criminals, all the corrupt shops bloom for another year and a half, two, days, and then we'll apply this law. I really don't understand you, where is the end of your political futurism? Look, I've got to call my esteemed colleague, Alexander Martinovic, who, in his time, was a book reviewer under the title – Serbian Baron Minhausen Alexander Vukic and a spokesman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7700	What does that book have to do with this amendment? Some things are done in reverse order – first explain, then call for something. Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7701	Mr. Chairman, you know very well that I have a little time left, so I'd like to use it without you interrupting me in half a sentence. So, I am calling on the authority of the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group and I am just saying that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, has been doing in the fight against crime and corruption for the last five years, and it will not work for another two years, reminds Baron Minhauzen. Who was Baron Minhausen? One of the great liars and con artists who exaggerated big stories to actually overshadow the simplicity. That's not what I said, to remind me, that's what Aleksandar Martinovic said about Alexander Vukic. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What have I done now? [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7702	The electronic system's broken down. Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7703	How much time do I have left, Your Grace?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7704	40 more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7705	Thank you very much. So either Alexander Martinovic is right is Alexander Vukic, Serbian Baron Minhauzen, as I agree with him, or you actually have to admit that your fight against crime and corruption is a big fraud and a lie, that this is the biggest violation of your pre-election promise, that you have deceived Serbian citizens, that you are not fighting crime and corruption. Not only have you not fought for five years, but you do not want this law to fight even for the next two years, you are delaying the application of the law and you are practically legalising that there is no fight against crime and corruption in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7706	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7707	Right on line, Mr. Chairman, MP group. I listen and I think of the famous Sorbonne professor, Raymond Daron, who in his memories in 1968, in one place, pointed out that there was a bunch of memorized phrases without meaning or meaning, a bunch of nonsense, it was a marathon of chatter. I don't know why that's what occurred to me when I was listening to this guy who keeps wanting to give us two more minutes for a chance to teach him something. It's not a dispute. It's a great opportunity. We have also heard about statistics today, we have also heard about concrete examples in the field of fight against crime and corruption, although it is not bad to know that it is done by judicial authorities, not by government, this party or that party, but it is too much to expect any knowledge from someone who shows that in fact one usually is nothing and one big empty person in the mood for a story. Let's move on. What else can we conclude and learn? Just a few things. In the first nine months of this year, total crime has been reduced by 5.4%. Against 36,600 people, even more than that, you file criminal charges. Lighted up over 51% of the crime, multiple drug abuses. A small number of crimes against life and body by 4%. Over 70% of the murders are lit up. Property crime down 10%. Just one fragment on the topic of fighting crime that someone said was delayed -- if they knew anything, they wouldn't even think about saying it. As for the fight against corruption if he knew anything, he would know that the Anti-Corruption Agency has just arrived at the assessment that today is better than ever a real fight and that the measures have been implemented that are precisely those officials that are so talked about, are now being reported transparently and their property situation is being scanned. Now, what someone's talking about for about five years, it's not a dispute. We understand what's causing it. The reason is complex mathematics that doesn't need elementary school, but fingers of one hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7708	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7709	And when someone's talking about lost years, it looks like he's lost his own years since preschool, or boyhood, until today. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. I recognized I didn't know anything. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7710	He didn't mention you once, Mr. Obradovic. Right to the replica Bosko Obradovic, because he recognized he knew nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say one important thing that I would not be guilty of all those honorable Serbian police officers, prosecutors and judges doing their job well, is not a problem in them, the problem is in the political will to really fight crime and corruption, and there has been no SNS for five years now, and this political will for a more serious, stricter fight against crime and corruption has been delayed for another two years. I understand that you are extremely hurt when someone tells you that you are the fifth year of power in the third Vucic government, because then the citizens of Serbia, looking at this transmission directly, say -- these are five years in power, and they haven't done anything. Five years of power of empty talk, five years of empty promises, five years of big words. What about the results? Is there a politician who robbed us? Was he arrested by a tycoon or was he on a multi-year sentence that robbed us? None of that, and won the election five years ago, that they would fight crime and corruption, and five years ago, they didn't send on the grounds of a judicial verdict to a year-long prison of one, the only tycoon or politician who robbed us in the previous 26 years. They say, yes, we caught some small fish, so you believe it's a fight against crime and corruption. It's not a fight against crime and corruption. Mladjan Dinkic is a fight against crime and corruption. Something's quiet. You even took him to the government. Now you've taken him as a counselor. Well, a little bit of him, but now his wife, I don't know how many G-17+ personnel start with Ivica Kotic, who from the head of the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic became head of the office of Alexander Vukic. What other evidence to state that you haven't actually changed anything but continued that destructive policy you criticized so much when you were an opposition?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7712	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7713	Thanks again. It's a miracle, ladies and gentlemen, not that someone doesn't remember yesterday when we were talking about things here, so pretend like no one said them. It's a miracle some of them here are able to hold their memory for ten seconds and no more than that. I just read some of the results, and then a man gets up and says, "Where are your results?" We didn't hear anything. I don't know if it's capable of memory and reasoning that can be commended by the MP. I won't answer. I'll educate. Let's move on, results - 11% less stolen motor vehicles, again recent. In the area of juvenile crime, the rate of less than 15.5%, the participation of this form of crime in general crime fell by 6.6%. When it comes to curbing the grey economy, a better score was achieved for one third than last year when the result was also excellent without going to last year. Someone's got a 10-second problem. Double the result of the confiscation of excise products, especially tobacco and special cigarettes. As for the state of security of the border, the situation is stable, it's less human trafficking. In car accidents, 1.4% less fatal. Fire departments intervened 18,600 times. Less accidents, less injuries. All of this could be found out very easily, if he'd be interested. But, as we said, some are for the work of a MP, but the job is probably for a man who cares about anything and who wants to do public work. Some people find that a little difficult. Some people hate to deal with these things. To some, it's an extraordinary effort to read anything, although it may not be just an effort, I was talking today, maybe it's a lack of time. If they devote too much time to visiting suspicious shows...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7714	Now you're talking about time. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7715	... Well, after that, they have to deny it, then they certainly have no time for anything. Thank you very much. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7716	Mr. Sarovic, on what grounds? (Nemnja Sarovic, from the place: When the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj is mentioned... Don't. Now every book can be mentioned so that it can be... National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, submitted the amendment to Article 33. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7717	Mr Arsic, you have heard, as the public has heard, that the aforementioned books of the SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj and whenever his books are mentioned, whenever our party is mentioned, and I, as vice president, have the right to reply. The other thing I wanted. I'm trying to say that by reason of reason and logic, I come to what Bosko Obradovic really wants. Namely, he says the SNS has been in power since 2012 and says that in those five years they have done nothing in the fight against crime, but then I wonder – why did he protest with SNS against the crime of Bojan Pajtic? Another very important logical question – you say, Mr. Obradovic, that these thieves are DS, including these other democratic parties, from the League, etc. And ask them to be arrested. That by any chance, these SNS guys really wanted to deal with crime and arrest them, and who would force you into the assembly, Mr. Obradovic? That's the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7718	Please, no personal address, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7719	I've got 40 seconds left. Let's be honest all the way. If anyone can complain to Mr. Martinovic not because of his past, he has had an honorable past, but because of what has changed, then I guess that's us from the SRS. If anyone remembers what Mr. Martinovic was saying about the BIA, we remember. You want us to find that speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7720	What does that have to do with the member mentioned?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7721	When you were saying that it was anti-constitutional, when you were saying that it was... Against the Anti-Corruption Agency, when you said it was against the constitution, that it was a coup... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7722	Time's up, Mr. Sarovic. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no right to reply because it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sarovic advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and sought the right to a replica and explained that it was to mention the book of Vojislav Seselj. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7723	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment that this law that we are discussing begins to apply on 1 June 2017 and not on 1 March 2018. I suggested the same amendment to the Criminal Code, which we discussed yesterday. I think that the legislator and the ruling majority who refuses to accept such an amendment actually does not want the fight against crime and corruption to take place immediately, but is delayed for 2018. There is no reason for us to delay the application of this law or KZ for 2018. All of this already exists. This isn't any new law. A special court exists, there are organs to contain organized crime. You inherited all this in 2012 when you came to power and took over the Department of Justice. You've been in power for five years, and today the minister says, regarding this amendment, she's running late on the action plan, so we had to push him into the Assembly by emergency procedure. No, I think it's disrespect for the Assembly, that it's disrespect for the MPs, that you give us four serious laws by emergency procedure, and that we have one working day for the amendments, and then you suggest that it all starts to apply on 1 March 2018. The criminal code provides for easier, to say crimes, or less threatened criminal offences in the economy, I support that. Why is this not applied immediately, but you are waiting for March 1, 2018? Why? When the SNS falls from power, they will be subject to these easier penalties, and for those who process today, more severe penalties will apply to them. What's the reason we're putting it off? Why are you postponing the Criminal Code for 2018? Now you said-- you need a building to be built. There are all the buildings that are being renovated. So buildings can't be a problem with law enforcement. You don't want to improve the framework for fighting organised crime and corruption now, but you're putting it off by two years. You don't want those crimes we discussed, especially in the economy, to be introduced immediately, but only in two years. You did not want to end the abuse of a responsible person, although it is written to you in the European Commission's report, but we will discuss when, since March 2018? We do not, and we do not need to pass laws because someone has prescribed it in the EU action plan, we should do it for us, in order to bring this country into the rule of law and have an orderly state.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7724	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 4th point of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of Immigrants from the Immigrants by the People's MPs: Zoran Zivković, Branka Stamenković, Vesna Nikolović, Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Srdjan Nogo, Boško Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesić, Marija Janjušić, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićić, Čedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamović, Natas Mić, Dr Žarko Korać, Nena Milić, Bajro Gegić, Marko Gjušić, Miroslav Žalić, Goran Žaljanović, Gorjan Žaljan Žarović, Šilović, Žaljanožinović, Šilić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7725	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment asking to specify which property may be temporarily seized from citizens in this country. The property resulting from the crime is considered to be the property of the owner who is obviously a significant disproportionate to his legal income. I added the word – to a considerable disproportionate. You reject this amendment because you say that this is "substantial disproportionate" not precise enough. And it's precise enough just disproportionate, without this significant? So it's much more accurate what I suggest than what you suggested. Another thing, disproportionateness can be 100 dinars and 1,000 dinars. We have examples in practice, where you take away someone's apartment because that apartment is worth 100,000 euros, he has proved to have earned 90,000 euros. It's not 10,000 euros to take someone's apartment away. That's why I suggest that it be a considerable disproportionateity. A significant misunderstanding means that you need to chase down serious tycoons and serious criminals in this country, who have multimillion-dollar assets, and have no incomes that have been taxed, which can explain where they're coming from. So, at the very least, your explanation is a shame. My determination of a significant disproportionate is much more precise than yours and I ask you to reconsider adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7726	Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, together the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic, together the MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamović, Natasa Mićic, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milić and Bajro Gegić and together the MPs Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7727	In Article 3. It is proposed that if the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence is not possible, the assets corresponding to the value of the property arising from the offence will be seized, so any other assets. We, in the SRS, think it's a very dangerous provision that can and can be abused. We've suggested that we delete this provision. The government has not accepted, says for reasons why it is necessary to supplement Article 4. etc. That's no answer, we don't think it's necessary, you think it is. We've made arguments about why we're erasing this, and you haven't made any arguments about why it shouldn't be erased. There used to be a law on the investigation of property, and that principle was promoted in that law – if one cannot prove the origin of someone's property, that this property was taken away and that it was also spread as this law, or the bill you are now giving. It's also dangerous to take away property before a person gets convicted. We all know, we watched the newspapers, in the media, selling out Darko Saric's assets. Who will be responsible if Darko Saric is not convicted? Who is responsible for the great money, for example, that the state of Serbia has paid for the people who have been taken away from their property, and in the meantime have been freed of all responsibility and guilt? Who is responsible for the great money that the state of Serbia paid, for example, at the time of "Sablje" tens of thousands of people in custody, and later it turns out that there was no legal basis for it? In other words, I'm finishing Arsic, if you're ready to confiscate property like this, I recommend that you confiscate the criminally acquired property of Tomislav Nikolic and Dragica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7728	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7729	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, and the SDS parliamentary group have submitted the same amendment. It's just, I think this is the kind of formula that you've given, which is that you can take away property that has nothing to do with a crime, that's contrary to the law itself and the spirit of the law. This law has the title – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. So it's okay to take away the property that came from the crime scene. You are now expanding and saying, "It is possible to take away property that did not come out of a crime." What does that mean in translation? That means you can take away the property of someone who inherited it from his father, from his mother's apartment, etc. I don't think that's right, I don't think it should spread that way. I think we need the organs that we have in the past law, so we've improved to fight and eventually take away the property that came out of the crime, that would be normal, not to take someone's grandfather. That is why we have proposed this amendment. Your explanation is quite unsavoury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7730	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7731	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has been proposed by amendments and additions to this law is not a newspaper, since such a provision exists in the Criminal Code. If you do not know, I will read, Article 92(1) speaks - money will be taken from the perpetrator, items of value and any other property benefit obtained by criminal acts, and if the confiscation is not possible, the unsub will be obliged to surrender in exchange for another property benefit that corresponds to the value of the property obtained by carrying out the crime, or arises from a criminal offence, or to pay the sum corresponding to the property benefit obtained. This means – this is nothing new that is introduced by this bill, and on the other hand, this way we meet the obligations of the relevant conventions, above all the Warsaw Convention on Money Laundering, the Palermo Convention, and the EU directives relating to the confiscation of assets, point to the necessity of introducing a value-absorbing equivalent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7732	On what grounds, colleague Radeta? (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. ) She responded to Mr. Konstantinovic, not to you. She spoke on his discussion, not yours. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: The same is the amendment. So what if it's the same amendment? (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: the same arguments. No, you have no right to a replica. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Members of Parliament Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic, joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamović, Natasa Mićic, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegić, and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7733	Thank you. This is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. We have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where, among other things, a special commission is said to be formed that regulates the responsibility of the Financial Investigation Unit as a return office. We ask ourselves, "What property have we taken away from, and whom have you taken away from?" So that we may return the property? Until the moment you pass the law on the origin of the property and until you submit a report of the 2012 budget, on the other hand, especially this one since 2015, which Dr. Seselj asked for the other day, we cannot know who in this country is spending the money properly, where it is, and where it is, in fact, the property of the citizens. What we've noticed for all this time, while you've been polishing, and position and opposition, some have turned their backs on the position, and the position has actually turned their backs on the people. How? By coming to power in 2012, just saying that everything the DS has done to this country and to these citizens by 2012 will be returned to the budget and returned to the citizens, and now there's a law going on where we don't even know what we're supposed to take away from. So, first we have to pass the property origin law, see what they stole before you by 2012, and then what do we have to do? That you've been passing accounts since 2012 and we've seen where that citizen's money is, so we can pass one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7734	Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7735	Thank you. The proposed amendment amends the provision introducing additional red tape of the Financial Investigations Unit, through the education of the property return office. Because the unit itself can carry out the tasks in question, the more economical is considered a solution that introduces only a new jurisdiction, without institutionalisation and red tape, by creating a new body. We believe that this will also achieve financial savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7736	Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7737	We have asked for an amendment to amend something in Article 9 of the basic text of the law, to specify that the Directorate when it manages the temporary or permanent property seized, as they say, arising from the criminal act, in that part when it refers to some property that is limited to UN decisions, that a binding act for the Directorate should be the government's decision. Why the government decision? Because the government is leading internal and foreign policy, the government is responding to the UN, and even if we didn't have that situation that, without the government knowingly, is negotiating something, is negotiating something with abroad, is not directly related to the UN, but you know that we had that famous object where, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, without the knowledge of the government, we paid someone there some expenses, so that they wouldn't answer to one of our own. I say, there is no direct link to the UN decision, but such a situation is possible, because if someone needs on behalf of the Republic of Serbia to fulfil the obligation towards the UN, the commitment that has been made, then the first in that chain is certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we asked to complete practically what the proposer suggested. However, the biggest problem with this bill is that the bill promoter does not know what property is. Property is a set of property rights of a person, and here you get different definitions of property, so you even get the one from a post-it period where you have to prove legally acquired your property. It's about like when an idiot remembers and says, "Go to The Hague to prove your innocence," not that he should prove guilty. Well, that's the same in property stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7738	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7739	Thank you. In this article in the basic text, that is Article 9, a record is prescribed to be kept by the Directorate which manages the seized property. My amendment proposes that at the monthly level such collected records be published in some statistical form on the Agency's website, namely: the number of solutions made on the temporary confiscation of assets, the number of solutions made on the permanent confiscation of assets, the estimated value of the temporarily seized and the estimated value of the permanently seized assets. The government has rejected this amendment, citing as a reason why anyone who is interested can, under the Public Information Act, ask the Directorate for that information to be obtained. Please, this is no reason to refuse the amendment, this is an excuse to refuse this amendment. In a country that has narrowed down to corruption, in the era of the Internet, there is absolutely no reason for any directorship, agency, state authority to be hidden from the public, and even less that the money the property it manages is not available to the public on one click of the mouse. This transparency aims to prevent corruption. Transparency is the best preventive measure against corruption, and I am very unhappy that this amendment was rejected with one such unsurpassed reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7740	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There would be no need for me to report at all, if it hadn't been for this word "independence" at the very end. So the reason or the excuse, here again, to not accept is because of technical mistakes again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7742	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7743	Please, I don't know where you read the reasons why the amendment was rejected. I'll read it if you didn't make it yourself. The Government does not accept the amendment on the grounds that the information available to the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Property is made available to the public, in accordance with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7744	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7745	I haven't read anything at all, I've added one more, and the reason, or the excuse, let it be called whatever it wants. And this one, to all that is already written, which I consider to be right, is – and technical errors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7746	By amendment, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7747	I don't know what technical mistakes you're constantly invoking to our parliamentary group. Yesterday you had objections to some logical mistakes. I think here, in fact, it's a very different concept of how the state should be guided, the responsibility that we have in front of voters, and in that sense, everything that doesn't suit you, some mistake, given logically, gave you technical. I repeat, without transparent business and conduct of the affairs of all state authorities and this proactive transparency, there are never any conditions for preventing corruption in which, as a society and a state, we have cut ourselves off from as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7748	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7749	There is absolutely nothing controversial in transparency, although the fact here, in this now oral explanation, is mentioned primarily as an excuse. Like every time someone's here, and not just here, they mention it, because they had the chance to demonstrate it in practice, so somehow it wouldn't be anywhere. That's the least of the problems. Read the text of what you have suggested, data and data. Because it takes three, four more times in a row to be the same word so someone can be clear that it can't be written like that and it can't be entered into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7750	The word has been made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7751	Excuse me, colleague, I don't know if it's a technical or spelling error I may have made at speed, since you've sprinkled four laws in a united discussion by emergency procedure and I've had three days to read 523 pages of material. And if it's a spelling error, you can always make amends, and if there's a will, anything can be done. Whoever wants to do something is looking for a way, who won't, is looking for a reason. Not to say - an excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7752	Does anyone want to delete that word – data, since one is excess. Here you go, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7753	This is already a straight line, but don't worry, I'll save you every second. So, I forgive myself. I forgive everything about spelling, I might be able to help, but the problem is that someone can't read it, I'm sorry, but I won't be able to help it now or any other time. The rest, like I said, I forgive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7754	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7755	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the bill in article 16. It is not good because you predict that when police file criminal charges to the public prosecutor, it is required to provide information on the property of a suspect and a third party who has been obtained in the investigation procedure. What are you guys actually doing? You are now under the obligation that the police who are working on any criminal charges should investigate the property of the person to whom the criminal report applies. That's not good, because this property confiscation bill itself says in its Article 17 that a financial investigation is being launched against the owner when there are grounds for doubting that he has significant assets stemming from the crime. The suspicion that there is considerable criminal property is determined by the prosecutor and the prosecutor is the one who should determine whether or not financial property will be managed, not that the police are fully unfounded on any criminal charges when it is working. Do not impose an obligation on the police to investigate and investigate everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7756	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7757	I've given two amendments to this law. Both have been accepted, so I expect a double thank-you from the department in charge of agile work, my team and myself personally, at the bar of lexis repair of this law. Otherwise, the government only accepted three out of fifty and something, as I recall, so some would say it's two-thirds. It's about this case and the next one about the score or the comma, how glad it is to whom it is. And it looks like a little thing, but it's not. Some would say that the devil is in small things, that the poisons are stored in small bottles, but it's very important that I repeat the laws, they're very precise so that they don't get misread. It's misread and when it's most accurate written, and when that possibility is allowed to be commad, commad, move left, right, then we come to making great opportunities and abuses of this law. In addition, several times the law on the origin of property is mentioned. Of course I need to bring it in, but I just want to get to know, first of all, the Serbian public, because MPs should know that already in the existing Financial Procedure Act and the Financial Administration, there is the possibility that financial police will bring the owner of the property to the hearing and ask him to prove any important piece of their mobile or immovable property, and if any of it is acquired in an illegal manner, either being taken away or paid taxes on it in rare situations. So today, too, can be done. I'll continue my work, and I expect the ministry to remember when it's Ministry Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7758	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7759	I thank the chairman. This is all about terminology. Therefore, we have suggested that the term “hazard” be replaced by the term “probability”, because an existing solution that determines the existence of danger prevents arbitration that can allow the use of a probabilities term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7760	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenada Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7761	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable Minister, these are very serious amendments to very serious provisions of the law that, if not strictly applied by law, can limit the human rights of citizens in this country. You had in the law a solution that says you can temporarily confiscate property, if there is a risk that later confiscation of property arising from the crime would be difficult or possible. Now you're changing the danger into probabilities. Probabilities don't mean anything. There's always a chance. Come on, don't play. Don't make laws by which anyone can be taken away from property in this country. Well, what are you doing? Which means - there's a chance that something would be in the future. There always is. The point is, there's a danger, which means you see that there's a intention that someone will somehow put that property away. This is how you made it possible for the prosecution, or the court to confiscate the temporary property of whoever they wanted and whatever they wanted, and it doesn't have to be charged or that there's a reasonable doubt that someone committed the crime. So there's enough criminal charges stuck to the police and you're taking away the property. Why are you doing this? You have a restraining order on the property until this is decided. So why do you intend to take away everyone's property in this country? I think that's the same reason you didn't abuse the position of the responsible person you wanted to eliminate, which is that every businessman in this country can be blackmailed and you can take away his property whenever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7762	Thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7763	Well, probabilities as the weakest vision or degree of certainty are avoided. It's a simple insinuation. It's enough to point a finger at someone and say, hold a thief, and, well, that's a great probability. But I don't want to talk about it, because this law is totally hollow wherever you catch it. However, the second change being made, I must prove my innocence. With what right do you ask me to provide you with evidence, to deliver evidence because there's a probability in someone's head? If this were a normal state, I'd arrest all those who wrote this. You in this country also have an extra profit law that is still in effect. Do you know that? The law on extra profit, Pajticev and Zivkovic, is still in force today. He's a little bit cleared up about those provisions, and today's the day. And you have a law in the Tax Administration Act, as Zivkovic said, also some provisions that take care of this. In 2003, you have the violation of our regulations by Batic, where the confiscation was given another form. Who do you think you're scaring with this? Well, the man goes into custody, and he's in custody watching as his moving assets are sold out. Darko Saric watches his paintings, chairs, etc. sell out, and yet there is no verdict. You'd just like to kidnap, for chrissakes. Just because you're government officials doesn't mean you have to kidnap. Remember, you'll answer eventually. No one's ever had a candle lit. Turn yourself off, the circumstances change. Ljuljnet from the country, and then you turn around, and then you ask – well, it wasn't like this, I had to pressure myself, like Malovićka – I'm not Karadzic, I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7764	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) You have a basis for replication, you are mentioned. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. The base of the replicating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7765	Thank you. A few things. First, Mr. Pajtic did not participate in the preparation of these laws, so if someone should be held accountable or, in my interpretation, the glory of passing those two laws that you have stated, I am ready to be one of the bearers. As for the Law on Extra Profit, it was in some way insufficient, yet in some significant sense it was able to correct what was possible at that time, and it was about the 1990s and the kidnapping of people's property at that time. Among other things, as a fellow MP knows, then extra profits for the apartments they received at the time the bombs dropped on Serbia in 1999 were paid by the current president of the state Tomislav, Dr Nikolic and current Serbian Prime Minister Vukic Aleksandar. There's no doubt about it. As for this second law concerning the review of the origin of property, and in the Tax Administration Act, that is the law passed in April 2003, I am proud of the law. I was the only one among politicians who was also a beneficiary of the application of that member, or I was invited to say everything, where, how and from where. Of course, I'm not afraid of it and of course I'm proud of it, but it would be nice if most high-ranking MPs and fellow politicians would go through it and get from the state a certificate that what they have is not a consequence of the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7766	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Would you like to further explain what you were talking about? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7767	He does not know Zivkovic, because he did not write a proposal for a constitutional assessment, but I wrote the proposal. Eleven members fell in the first run in front of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Constitutional Court, and then the seven-seven split, and the 15th would not vote. Then he came to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and only three, four years ago did that practically definitely end. It's been cleared of all those provisions concerning the early 1990s, etc. So it's now become a general universal regulation that can be applied. That's the first thing. It's another thing. Not everyone paid, as Zivkovic said. Some have paid, but not all. Why? Because according to that law, it's not supposed to be paid, but it's not the point of the story in this. The point is, when it starts with a principle -- you hold a thief, they're thieves, then it's very unfavourable when in a few years it's found out they're not really thieves and there's not so much property that's going to be collected, like God's dericosis counted on billions of dinars to come true. What happened? Two, three million marks came true. Who paid? Paid people a racket, little Karic, little Miskovic, just so they don't touch each other so they'll be happy. That's what this is about. I'm the one who praises them. You survived the law in legal traffic. Why? Just so you don't get that money back that you illegally took.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7768	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, I will allow you to respond and I would like to close the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7769	The point of the law is not only to make some of the financial resources extraordinary to the budget in one year or more, but also to bring justice. I'd like a colleague who's just been saying he's giving me someone who's been charged extra money and he's innocent. As is also important to me, since "Sabbe" is mentioned several times, one who has been arrested, detained, detained in "Sablja" without meriting it? By the way, some tens of thousands of people were invited to talk, some 2,200 were detained. Several thousand crimes have been solved, millions of rounds of ammunition have been seized, thousands of long and short pipes, solved almost all the killings of the 1990s, whether they were political, whether they had ties to organised crime and of course the citizens of Serbia, as well as then, are today proud of what happened with, of course, general regret about the cause of the action itself. But let me tell you, you already know that. A similar action would have been carried out if Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic had been alive at the time, and had not been assassinated on him, on Sundays ahead of that date when this action was to be carried out, which then brought crime in Serbia to a historic minimum. What happened next? Where are these people after? Where did it get stuck when it went after some politicians? It's a question for your internal meetings of your parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7770	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from place: Replica, clarification. You've explained enough, Mr. Krassic. (Zoran Krasic, from town: Two sentences. We understand, Mr. Krassic. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: He did not understand me. We understand. You've run a circle of replicas. You had plenty of time and you and Mr. Zivkovic to explain what you were talking about. I think it's very important now that we continue our work when it comes to the legislative proposal and the amendments. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Master Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7771	Thank you. It's simply an identical explanation. We could hear how difficult the probabilities itself are, let alone the dangers. We are not satisfied with the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is not justified and celery to allow the possibility of multiple suspension of the first-degree settlement and repetitive proceedings before the first-degree court. If there's still a possibility of arbitration and some suspicion, why shouldn't a repeat be allowed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7772	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7773	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, representatives of the Justice Department, I will read, is a similar member of the 23rd, a member of the 24th that you propose - when there is a likelihood that a later confiscation of property would result from a criminal offence, either a difficult public prosecutor submits a request for temporary confiscation of property. When there is a probability, I ask you once again to look at these amendments, to agree with the representatives of the SNS sitting in this Assembly to adopt these amendments, because the probability exists always. Don't help the prosecutors to make a discreet decision on who they're gonna take the property away from. In this way the prosecutor only submits a request, of course the probability exists and the property will be taken away from anyone in this country. Why are you giving such authority to the D.A.'s office? What are the results of the prosecution? How many charges are there and how long are the investigations? They've been investigating for more than 10 months. The "cutter" didn't end up with any charges. What are they doing for 10 months? Now you give them the opportunity to decide, simply, to take someone's property and they can take it. The danger still had to be proven, then the court has something to determine. There's nothing like this to determine. Then you don't need a court of law. So the D.A. takes whoever he wants temporarily, whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7774	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7775	Just one explanation. It's not the prosecutor who's taking away the property, he's making a motion, and it's up to the court to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7776	Thank you. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the post: After the amendment. You can do it by amendment, of course. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7777	For SNS taps, for taps to understand, there is no court to decide when you say – probabilities. Here, we can all decide. The probability of everything always exists. If the prosecutor submits an application, and the court needs to determine the probability of taking it, the court must immediately decide to confiscate some property at the request of the prosecutor, because the probability always exists. There's nothing to determine. Don't answer me formally. You're essentially saying that when a prosecutor submits an application, property is taken away, because probability exists, and already today exists in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7778	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7779	In 2013, you made changes to the law on confiscation of property, and then in 2013, you changed what was good in the previous law, about some desire to change something, and decided to confiscate the property by making an application, the court reached a solution on temporary confiscation, and only then can the party object to that. So you've disabled the party, the citizen, accused of even participating in the process of confiscation of property. Now you realize after three years that this was wrong and that this solution was very bad and now you're giving the opportunity, you're going back to what it was until 2013, while you weren't in power, you're going back to the fact that the party can still participate in the process and that some answer to the prosecutor's proposal. I'm working on an amendment here, and I suggest that this answer, which man puts on the motion to confiscate the prosecutor, take the plea. Why? Maybe the prosecutor will see the party's arguments and say, yes, it's okay, the man has an excuse for the property he has, he earned and paid taxes on it, so he'll give it up. Why are you preventing the prosecutor from giving up his request? Why does the court have to make a decision and the prosecutor has no right to give up? If he convinces the prosecutor's party with arguments, the evidence that he earned the property and paid the tax on that property, what's his wish, asked counterpart Krasic just now, to take everyone away, to take away as quickly as possible, that no one has the right to defend himself in this country? Why are you doing this? So, I can answer, the prosecutor gets to make a statement. If he believes that the proceedings should continue, the court will make a decision, and he may decide to give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7780	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter by Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7781	I just have to express a strong disagreement with the government's reasoning that we have received for not accepting this amendment and I'm going to read – the government does not accept the amendment because it feels that the underlying suspicion is sufficient as a condition for us to adopt a solution to the temporary confiscation of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7782	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7783	So, essentially, we've suggested that the appeal delay the execution of the solution. So, there's no reason not to delay by appeal, the Court of Appeal is deciding very quickly by appeal. When the court decides, if the appeal refuses, the property will be seized. Why the appeal not to delay the execution of the solution? I ask the question again – what is the haste to take away people's property as soon as possible? I think confiscation of property is the same as detention being abused in our system, and that's how people are punished, even though they're not being charged at all. You put someone in custody, you take away his property, and then you make an investigation 10 months, 12 months, two years, no charges. So there is no reasonable doubt that someone committed a crime, but his property was taken away, he has nowhere to live and he has to rent an apartment and you punish him with it, and then you say, "Puj dots don't apply, it doesn't matter, we didn't press charges, there was no evidence." So, don't turn these measures into punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7784	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7785	We have submitted this amendment for the reason we believe there must be reasonable doubt that someone would be taken away from their property. That's exactly what I was saying earlier. So, when there's a reasonable doubt, then there's an indictment and there's, therefore, what the laymen would say, there's something to suspect that someone committed a crime. Like this, it can be nothing, and we're taking away property from people and it doesn't have to end with a charge. That's why I think this termology, which you're using, is unwarranted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7786	Thank you. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7787	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's do at least one good thing. If these investigations last more than six months, i.e. more than what's supposed to be an investigation that could be completed, let's stop the abuse so the property can't be taken away from someone, and the investigation isn't completed in six months. I suggest that unless the public prosecutor file charges within six months of the initiation of the investigation, that is, within one year for the crimes committed by a special law by the public prosecutor's office that the solution to the temporary confiscation of property must be abolished. So in six months you can seriously determine if there is a reasonable doubt that someone has committed a crime. If you're not able to do it in six months, return the man's property, and when you find out, you'll be conducting some procedure again. So, the attempt of all these amendments is to prevent the abuse that, in life, is to take away property from someone, and then conduct an investigation for two years. Two years without property, two years without an apartment, two years of renting it takes its own apartment, because no one else will take those apartments for rent, because it pays the market rent of, I don't know, 500 euros. Have you considered that these people have nothing to pay from? A lot of the people you're after for these crimes, they live off their wages, they live with a family in that apartment. So, this is deeply unwarranted, and I don't know why in all the laws of the years, not just you and the last five years, how much of the SNS has been in power, it's always been up to the prosecutors, I guess the prosecutors are sitting in working groups and making the laws easier for them. When you can't find out for any crime that someone did, then you had that abuse of a responsible person, which is everything and nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7788	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojčić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7789	To Article 27?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7790	Yes, to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7791	On Article 27, we have submitted an amendment that the directorates pay property tax. When you take away someone's property and don't let them live in their apartment, that man realizes, besides that lease he has to pay, you say now -- but you have to pay the property tax. I don't think all expenses should be paid while this property is practically at the use of state or directorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7792	Thank you. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Justice Committee have adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7793	That's nice, it's one of those amendments where it's said in a sentence, it's a proper interpretation of a line of lines, but it's also an opportunity because this is about a new article of 52a. where it says if the immovable property is temporarily seized, and the Directorate can conclude the lease agreement of that property. It is no problem to take away property, but I agree with my colleague Konstantinovic that because of the likelihood that something will happen to you, you cannot make any decision that can put into a difficult, complicated, perhaps even dangerous situation for any citizen. Of course, when a person is convicted, then there are conditions for taking away property, but while there is a point in the investigation there is a suspension of his rights eventually, to extend it from that property, but to be expelled from the apartment, to have that apartment sold or frozen funds in foreign or dinar accounts, without anything being launched, as we have the case with the "Slicer" action. People, 86 of them for the cost of the state, celebrated the New Year in prison. No criminal charges were filed against any of them, and against the man who was there for 20 days and a few days because he was in the Ministry of Agriculture at the time I got that famous wine subsidy, 28 days or 27 days he was in custody, of course he wasn't found anything. Of course they dug up everyone except archaeologists to find something that's illegal. The man's been in custody for almost a month for New Year's Eve. What's his satisfaction? That he might sue the state for damage? Of course, but how will she look her child in the eye, and she's not... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7794	Time's up. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7795	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... I can wait for them to turn around. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer has confessed to why he should be struck by this law. So, I claim that subsidy was given incorrectly. In order to get one subsidy, you have to have the first registered ownership. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What does this have to do with the agenda? ) Second, what you should have is a plot on which you will plant a vineyard. The planting was in 2007, the land was due to be registered until March of the month, it was registered only in July. So, in March in question, my fellow farmer tried not to have a plot or registered land.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7796	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7797	Well, I'm talking about the amendment, just as much...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7798	Just bring it into the context of the amendment. Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7799	So I'm saying that the amendment should be refused, because... I would have refused to accept the amendment, but I understand that it was accepted because my colleague farmer should be struck by this law for a simple reason, which he registered the land only in July, and the land was leased from the state on 7 November 2007 and was in no way able to execute... . Since we don't involve our wives, I know his connection with the D.A.'s office, I won't be surprised if such a prosecution they've selected refuses this. But when it comes to confiscation of property, I must point out that Bislimi, who accused them of missing 60,000 euros, vice president of the former regime's party, bought an apartment in Novi Sad in those days. Bislimi accused him of 60,000 euros, and he bought the apartment for 90,000 euros, here's the contract. It's about Goran Jesic, that swearer. It means he had to add something. In such situations, according to this proposal, the court and the prosecution can temporarily and permanently confiscate property. By turning their backs on me, it's no wonder as their leader runs away from the TV duel with me, so they turn their backs on me, and that way they're harmless to me because they can't even pinch me, spit, swear, and I thank them for it. Once again, I invite their leader, the leader of Rodney's witnesses, to go out on the TV duel I'm offering him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7800	Thank you. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, was reported in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7801	Thank you. Article 106 does not talk about the subject. It's not allowed to talk about things that aren't on the agenda. Ambassador Risticevic reported after the amendment, and he continued to talk about what he liked to talk about. You're to give you a confession, try to stop him after one minute and 13 seconds, but first of all, if you ask me, you didn't respond fast enough, it didn't take you that minute to release him, it took you to react immediately. Second of all, you tried nothing when you failed. You, as chairman, counterpart Milicevic, should stick to what is in the Rules of Procedure, and it says this is not allowed, it is not allowed, it is not allowed to insult. If not allowed, you must not allow it. So, as soon as they smell like insult or smell like a detour from the subject, you should not allow it. Otherwise, replicas without end and end are initiated, which are transformed into exchanges of mutual insults and are totally humiliating any constructive debate in this National Assembly on topics that are important to the citizens of this country. We don't have the framework and the space to talk about what we're chosen to talk about. Thank you very much. Let him vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7802	You want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mrs. Stamenkovic, I am surprised that you did not point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure when Mr. Zivkovic spoke in a broader context about the amendment which is specifically the subject of the debate, the amendment to Article 28 and even when he even spoke about the action "Slicer". The assembly is characterized by a democratic debate, a democratic conflict of opinion. The right to speak has opposition, but allow me, that right of speech has a position. We can't have double arches. Perhaps, in a broader context, the topic is present. I'm not in the position of a chair to always look at it the right way, but that's why you're here to point it out. I understand that you want to make the National Assembly known in the day of voting about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure and that will be done. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7803	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank the President for allowing me to use the same rights that the previous speaker used before me. I'm advertising Article 103 of Section 7 and 8 because I often don't advertise the Rules of Procedure. I may have a total of seven or eight commercials since this term. It's not my practice to often advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure. It's only when it happens multiple times, that I take the kind of right, which I don't even dispute with a colleague who spoke. However, if you count her injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you will see that there are certainly 40, 50 times more, which is good for both the chairman and the National Assembly, that the opposition has more and more time than we have. If a colleague is to abuse this right in the future, I ask only that you evaluate it once in ten times and that, in accordance with Articles 103, 7 and 8 of that group, you take away the time that has been misused because of frequent and inappropriate violations of the Rules of Procedure. As for turning your back, I thank her because they're the least dangerous to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7804	I thank Mr. Risticevic and agree with you completely that at a certain point we will be forced to apply the provisions of Article 103. We hate to do this, but it looks like we're definitely gonna have to. Mrs. Stamenkovic, you answered again. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is the basis of your notification, but you have already pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I could not subsequently do an additional new breach of the Rules of Procedure because you only made certain clarifications and explanation of the injury you have pointed out and you have no basis to report at this time. I can do the damage to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7805	Article 28 The draft law introduces a new member of the 52 law which empowers the Directorate for Temporary Disposal of Property. Our intervention consists of two parts. The first refers to the position of Article 1 of Article 52 where we wanted to specify, in the proposal stands – the lease agreement, and we suggested that it stand – the lease contract, as the member is provided and we proposed that the provisions of Article 7 be deleted in full. The government did not accept this amendment, and in its reasons for not accepting the amendments, it was stated that it must remain in such a way as to avoid the situation that the tax is later requested by the owner of the property in the event of recovery of the property temporarily seized, so it is the impression that the objective is to withdraw, collect taxes and anything else that should not be the preventive action of the State. Of course, all regimes, including the current regimes, will have full support from the SRS in the sincere fight against crime and corruption, but there is also a pre-capital of innocence and that period when the property is temporarily seized should be a cautious treatment of the seized property because we do not know what can happen later, but approximately, after these four legislative proposals, things are completely clear to us. I will only show for Serbia's citizens the bill that has six pages or three lists, and the reason why this law is adopted and agreed with EU rules is 337 pages. I think that says more than the reasons I could give for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7806	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Arsic, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7807	Thank you. This Article of the Law mentions contracts concluded by the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets with different natural and commercial persons concerning the sale and concessions to the use of the property that has been seized. What I asked the amendment is that the Directorate undertakes all contracts after the necessary protection of personal data in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act to be published regularly on the Internet presentation of the Directorate which manages the confiscated property. So this is another attempt to put transparency of the work of this Directorate into this law. The government rejected the amendment for exactly the same reason as the previous one, saying that there is already a Law on free access to information of public importance, and that therefore there is no need for them to give more information than it might have occurred to anyone to ever ask. I see only one firm resistance to public work. Why do you hide anything? It's about public money, public property. The public has the right to have insight into this data, and as much as there is resistance to this information being provided to the public, the fact that this Directorate does not seem to have a web presentation, an Internet presentation, at least I have not been able to find it, and accordingly, not even a labour informer who is obliged to comply with the Law on free access to information of public importance. You can't find anywhere and you can't have any insight into her business. I am very unhappy that the government has rejected this amendment with one such explanation that looks more like an excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7808	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7809	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me wait for the group to turn their backs and be harmless to me. I am willing, no matter how they turn their backs on me, to consider voting for this amendment in the day of voting because of the transparency that I am prone to, but when I am transparent, they sometimes express dissatisfaction, but I would also like the transparent question of property to be everywhere, including at the Anti-Corruption Agency, that they and what kind of relationship they have, so the property of their leaders and their own questions the mother of one MP. When a mother examines the property of her daughter and her leader and their colleagues, it's not transparent for me. If they want to be transparent, then it should be until the end, and I'll think about voting for this amendment, and those of my leader, who's not allowed on a TV duel, should convince him to go out on a TV duel and I'll show all of his assets he's hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7810	Thank you. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Branka Stamenković, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, okay, I asked for an amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7811	I thank the chairman. We have the same situation again, Article 106. Report to the amendment, MP Risticevic, and then he talks completely off topic and violates all members, 107. Rules of Procedure. You were earlier, when I pointed out that and when I said that I felt you were responsible for not stopping it, because it wasn't allowed, I tried to transfer responsibility to me and it turns out it was my fault that I didn't report for damage to the Rules of Procedure equally for everything. Please, don't transfer responsibility. The responsibility for the order of the sitting, for not allowing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, lies with the chair rather than with those who report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, last time you did not allow me to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is not right to transfer responsibility to any MP, nor to me. Take that responsibility to yourself once and react immediately. Why didn't you react now, but let him tell what he had, what nonsense, like nothing? Oh, yeah, he hurt her.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7812	Mrs. Stamenkovic, you've come forward after the amendment, or you've come forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Why are you nervous? Why are you so nervous? Easy, we've got time. So, the basis of your report was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You used one part of the above-mentioned violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate in some way Marijana Rističević. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: I've replicated to you. But you were talking about Marijan Rističević. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the People's Parliament, which points to a violation of the position of the 1st member immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. You didn't do it, you were probably turning your back, so you couldn't react at some point. Don't do that again, because in the case of the 7th of this article, the President of the National Assembly is obliged that the time used by the MP using the right of attitude 1. This member shall be taken away from the total amount of time that belongs to his group of MPs in the search. I'm not going to do it this time, I'm simply pointing to this member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Orlic, you called, you're in the system. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7813	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid we need to at least talk about this. So, yes, you've now commented on the content of Article 103, and that's good. And the 107th member is here, I think, pretty upset. More things here are problematic at the same time, I'm going to mention another member. So, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure by someone turning to the wall and showing him the book of business, I don't think you should have let that happen first. I don't think you should have allowed yourself to be insulted in this way, so not only your work, but the National Assembly, so that a member of the 106th is advertised and someone exposed after the amendment that no one has reported. Whose exposure? To the sound of silence to advertise that someone had not declared themselves in line with the agenda point, completely incoherent, now that I use that word. You mentioned Article 103 well, I am sorry that you completed your comment and concluded that you will not apply a provision that requires that time be taken away from anyone who abuses the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. We don't have to vote. Let's just make a deal. If we want to do this job in a quality way and we don't allow these abuses anymore, that we know exactly what kind of behavior certain people here and we can expect, and in accordance with that, we react, or we don't react, when we know that they're only going to raise this book with the intention of creating a certain abuse. If it were different, if they had different intentions, they would have raised it every time anyone on that side of the hall, I think of those people with whom they share scrawny lights, even those positions on a variety of stage in front of the RIK, but not just on them, whenever they behave in a way that doesn't fit the agenda point, and these don't. So this isn't just a matter of hurting the Rules of Procedure, this is a question of hypocrisy, but let's leave it for another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7814	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. As far as I can tell, you don't want the National Assembly in voting day pleading on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. I agree fully with you, but you noticed, and like me, we were sitting, listening to the speaker and responsiblely, seriously and dedicatedly doing the work for which we took responsibility. We cannot influence the behaviour of other MPs. We can point out, but that says enough about them, not us. Thank you. Comrade Rističević, you are in the system. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 27 on the subject of an article. 106th and 107th. So any procedure that threatens freedom of speech is not allowed. I continue to insist that you give the opposition a mild advantage and do not ask to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of what I object to and when I support the amendment proposed by the opposition. Again, they find a reason to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's where the rights are obtained, both in Sections 7 and 8, but I'm not asking, unlike the others, for you to apply it. I'm not even asking you to make them respect someone, because you can't get someone to be brought up. Raised people remain brought up and are considered brought up and when they remain in conflict with the untrained, so I do not ask you to apply any sanctions against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7816	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7817	Is that the amendment that was accepted or?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7818	No, I don't. The amendment to Article 30 — Article 30 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7819	It was simply laid down by law that when the property was taken away and the property was found to have been wrongfully taken away, that the property would be returned. It was in the current law to return to interest. I know this interest isn't big, it's practically 0.1% now, but it's a turn if some money is taken, wrongly taken, a mistake has been admitted, and the property returns, that it comes back with interest, not that someone is referring to a litigation process in which it will prove damage, etc. If the damage is greater than the amount of interest, it will certainly sue and try to determine that damage in the litigation process. But I don't know why now for those people who will be proven to have their property taken away wrong, why don't you pay them back with interest? It's working now, it's coming back and it's coming back to us with interest and I think it can work in the future and it's much more just.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7820	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7821	Thank you, Chairman. The third amendment to this law, in the same spirit – to build transparency in the business of the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets. My amendment requires the addition of a position that reads – all contracts relating to concessions or leases, or the use of permanent confiscation of property, after the protection of personal data, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be published on the Internet presentation of the Directorate within seven days of the conclusion of the aforementioned contracts. This amendment was rejected by the Government, explaining: ‘The Government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the information available to the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Property is available to the public in accordance with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter’. Please, in order for someone to get information under this law, they have to spend a lot of paper first. If all this data were on the Internet presentation of the Directorate, we'd be spared a tree and a forest. Secondly, the state authorities are reluctant to respond positively to such requests, so you must appeal to the Office of the Commissioner for the Protection of Free Access to Information from Public Meaning, and as it is filled with such complaints, it takes time and ultimately these data are not as quickly available as they would be on a mouse click, so that the Directorate, if required by law, regularly publishes them on the Internet presentation. In that sense, I again express my great dissatisfaction and disappointment that within this ministry, and apparently the entire government, there is no recognition of the need for measures that would prevent corruption that our country and society are suffering from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7822	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now I'm setting a break to 17 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-23-0.u7823	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. 143 MPs are present. In view of this, honourable MPs that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 23 November 2016, starting at 17.35 minutes as the day for voting on the items of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year, and we ask you to repeat the establishment of the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 157 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have conditions to decide. I'm putting to vote the bill on preventing domestic violence, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstention – 12, voted two MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against—no one, with abstention—no one voted 147 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 170 MPs for – four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against one, abstained, has ever voted 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic submitted the 3rd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 175 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 23, against – 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 171 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – has ever voted 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 24 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Marko Milenkovic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic submitted the 4th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 176 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP group LSV-Green Party and the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 149 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from Tatjana Macura submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 151 MPs for – 25. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Jovo Ostojić and Zoran Krasic submitted the 6th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 6th amendment was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from Tatjana Macura submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 MPs for – 21 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, eight, and 168 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 24 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 171 MPs for – four against – one abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 149 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from Tatjana Macura submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 18 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from Marjana Marash submitted to the 11th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has voted 175 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 171 MPs for – four against – one abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from Tatjana Macura submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A letter from LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Representatives Bozidar Delic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, eight, and 168 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 151 MPs for – 25. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – two abstentions – there are no, 144 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 161 MPs for – 15. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Gorica Gajic submitted the title above Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and parliamentary group Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for – 24, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned, no one has voted 175 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 22 against 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – six, against – one, abstention – 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, 12 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstention – three, voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, with abstention, three, voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and parliamentary group of the Democratic Party submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for – 24, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 166 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one, the abstentioned – there is no vote, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of—four against—there is no one who has voted 171 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the LSV Group – Green Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 13 against 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 20, against – there is no vote of 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, adding the name of the member after Article 16a, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and parliamentary group Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 MPs for – 32. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 16a, was submitted by six MPs of the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – two, abstention – one, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 16a, was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 165 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them. 169 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 19, against – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and parliamentary group of the Democratic Party submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—one, abstention—there is no vote, not 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted in 171 people's MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them. 169 Messengers have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 10, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 165 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party – SDA Sandzak – submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for -14, two, abstentions - two, 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 23, against – 154 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – 155 MPs voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 171 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 149 MPs for – 28, against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 19, against – 158 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 175 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 171 people's messenger, for four against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 23, against – 153 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare, four, against two, abstentions, no, 170 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 157 MPs for – 20 against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 23, against – 154 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 172 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 172 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 170 MPs for – five, against – one, abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 Messengers did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did vote 167 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, the abstentioned, voted for – 21 against 156 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – 155 MPs voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 23, against – 154 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 25, against - 152 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 157 MPs for – 20 against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, the abstentioned, voted for – 21 against 156 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The four MPs of the LSV-US Group submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 22, against – none of the abstentioned – 156 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Dveri submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 22, against – none of the abstentioned – 156 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MPs of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - the Green Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 11 against – no one with abstention – 167 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, adding the name of the member and member of 35, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, the DS parliamentary group and the Group of Liberal Democratic Party – SDA Sandzak. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 35a after article 35a, with correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above article 36a and Article 36a of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 177 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 169 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after article 37, by a new member of 37a, was submitted by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for – 27. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by MPs from the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina - the Green Party and MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the Bills, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. I therefore set a 15-minute break and ask that the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report. The committee sessions will be held in Hall II at the House of the National Assembly. [[after breaks]] Before we continue to work, please determine the quorum. I ask MPs to sit down and insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to vote the bill on preventing domestic violence, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs, for – 147. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill to prevent domestic violence. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – seven, abstentioned – eight, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 24, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To Article 6. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the LSDV parliamentary group, the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group and the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 12, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To Article 7. The amendment, with correction, was filed by the Dverry MP group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for four, no one, abstentioned, is a Messenger of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the LSDV Group – Green Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for eight, no one, abstentioned, is a Messenger of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—an apostle of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On a member. Amendments in the same text were submitted by Members of the People. The amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament to the Member. The amendment has been tabled by the People's MP. I am putting the amendments to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that there is no one with abstentions who has been voted on by 147 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find this amendment accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the LSV Group – Green Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Maja Vidinovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 26, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 15th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the LSV Group – Green Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The MP group DS submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP group LSV – The Green Party, the LDP parliamentary group – SDA Sandzak, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, the DS parliamentary group and the half-half. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 26, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 28, against – 28. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Both Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against nine, with abstentions, there is none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – three, abstention – one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions – two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141, v – six, with abstention – 13. I find that the Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. I put to the vote the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 143 against – five abstentions – 14. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The LDP-SDA Sandzak Parliamentary Group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. An 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. MPs Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Tatjana Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of the member and member of the 21st Amendment, Zoran Zivkovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s The name of the member and the 22nd amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s At the name of the member and of the 23rd amendment, Zoran Zivkovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—26, against—no one, abstentioned—one. Could not close temporary folder: %s On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 24th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 26th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 24, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s I am putting to the vote the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption in general. I conclude the vote and declare: nine MPs did not vote for – 148 against – three abstentions – 15. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the confiscation of assets arising from the criminal act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – three, with abstention – 14, 13 MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 3rd amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group and the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 4th amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group and the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic submitted the 6th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. Could not close temporary folder: %s Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 10th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s MPs Petar Jojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic jointly submitted the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. Could not close temporary folder: %s The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. Could not close temporary folder: %s On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. Could not close temporary folder: %s A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. Could not close temporary folder: %s The 15th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP group LDP – SDA Sandzak submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP group LDP – SDA Sandzak submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 26th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 28th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group DS submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – four, abstention – 11. I find that the Assembly has adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – 30, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the Assembly adopted most of the votes of all the MPs, the motion for a decision. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 15 November 2016, at 15 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – five, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 17 November 2016, at 12 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 17 November 2016, at 13 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on these injuries. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that these members have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 18 November 2016, at 16 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 22 November 2016, at 13 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103, paragraph 2 and Article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that these members have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 22 November 2016, at 17 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 23 November 2016, at 15 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 23 November 2016, at 15 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
