ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4779	Thank you very much. Welcome to the Government, this is hopefully the beginning of a nice custom for the government to perform its duty to stick to the Rules of Procedure, to respect parliament and to come every last Thursday of the month to ask questions. Three topics are current, one in particular, it's a matter of spies in our country. We've been informed that one successful action has been completed and that one spy group, individuals or groups have been broken, that the murder of our neighbouring country's prime minister has been prevented, that everything has been resolved, that they've been discovered, whether this man or these people have been arrested or not, we don't know. That's my first question. Is this man from the top of the UNKP, Serbian police arrested or not, as it is called, and why is he charged? Did the action really succeed in saving Prime Minister Djukanovic from Montenegro or is it just part of, otherwise, a statement we listen to very often and whether this successful action has dealt with some other things, such as the issue of a helicopter affair or the issue of the Savamal affair that is as important, not as important as the life of someone, even if it was a functioner or an ordinary man, but rather important for Serbia's legal order. Did this successful anti-spy activity, the anti-criminal activity, also get to see what happened to Asamakum? We got a verdict from a court that didn't participate in that fraud, we didn't get a conviction who did, and that's very interesting. Can we also find out if the Serbian police, the Serbian government or anyone willing to deal with the sports mafia in Serbia that the prime minister himself spoke of several times, said he did not have the strength to do so, is there any other power that could solve it? The economy? Great fine stories about the great successes of the Serbian economy, which of course is not true, pensions have been kidnapped further, wages also, electricity excises as an excise on vice or luxury exist only in Serbia. The question is, when are we going to get normal economic development and when are the salaries and pensions going to be returned to the level from which they were taken down and when are they going to stop with false statistics? This is also necessary to give me an answer to the question, why was 212 million dinars transferred from money to the pension payout budget at Nis on 16 October to provide the missing funds needed to obtain real estate in the public property of Serbia for the purposes of accommodation of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4780	I thank you, MP. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4781	Dear People's MPs, I will work hard and try to answer every question today, every remark, even the naked hatred that is increasingly expressed from the arguments that lie ahead. You've made a mistake when it comes to spies and when it comes to the prevention of the prime minister's murder, I haven't said for one second that we've prevented the murder of the prime minister of any country or Montenegro. I only said that we had unequivocal evidence that certain groups and certain individuals were monitoring the movements of the Prime Minister of Montenegro. And, that's something, not wanting to get involved in the election process in Montenegro, not wanting to get involved in anything. I think we acted responsibly. I think we acted seriously and we acted as a state, as a government as soon as the parties, the participants certainly had such a trail of events and such statements did not bring any advantage and any points, but we acted in a serious and responsible manner. The spies are something else. It's about another type of question and taking our operational processings from the Bureau of Criminal Police, which lasted, by God, until the second half of 2015. So, all the time, everything we did, everything our police did, they had some foreign service before it came to any other stage of pre-criminal or criminal proceedings. And I'm telling you this because, of course, it was a great danger. We can't say for sure. We don't think that's happening today. We were able to prevent something, and if we were able to prevent it, I can't guarantee it, but I think that according to what we have as data, we are. And we have done our best to show that we are an independent and sovereign country and to protect our constitutional order and that we are able to oppose the illegal anti-zaconic action and the most powerful world services, the services governed by the most powerful and powerful world powers, not because we are strong but because we are determined enough to protect our country, protect our freedom and protect our laws and our constitution as a Lex superior, as the highest law. I think that's what we did. You're not sure how you came to the story of a helicopter and I'll never avoid answering such questions, because I think that's exactly what it shows and why many of you have such bad results, because people in Serbia are not stupid. People in Serbia make a difference between what is someone's good intentions and what is someone's evil intentions and what is someone's hatred. People in Serbia see it as well as they see it well, as people in Serbia see if anyone is running a free policy, an independent and independent Serbia policy, or the ambassadors of certain countries determine who will be the joint presidential candidates and who will not. Also, as far as the sports mob is concerned, we've seen how you solved it in a brilliant way, that it didn't know whether there was a sport in the mob or whether there was a mob in the sport. And I'm a cautious man, and I take care of what I say, and when I say that we're gonna fix the economic situation, that's what we do. When we say we're going to fight crime and corruption, then we do it, and when I say it's very difficult to privatise the Red Star and Partizan, then I know why I'm saying it. It's because of this hypocrisy that is so ubiquitous of us, in which, in fact, everyone wants someone else to deal with it, that someone else is putting up with the sacrifice, and when it does, they'll all get out, and they'll let that one, I'd say, the most passionate part of the nation deal with individual politicians, if you don't move, then we'll hypocritically accuse them that you didn't get into it. As for the big, nice stories, we don't tell those big and beautiful stories to me, all the world officials and the IMF, the World Bank, all the ones who couldn't say anything about all your governments. Remember, the IMF came to Serbia in 2011 in September. Do you know when they left Serbia? In October 2011. They realized they had no conversation, they realized they had no one to talk to and that they couldn't get any answers to the difficult challenges Serbia was facing. That's why Serbia was facing bankruptcy. Serbia is far from bankruptcy today. Serbia is talking to the IMF today about how much wages and pensions we will increase. When you talk about wages, after this increase, some will have higher salaries than they ever had, but some will have healthy salaries, salaries based on what we've earned, not on the future of our children. So there's a huge difference in that, and their wages will be bigger than they were before. We will try to achieve the same thing with pensions, and I want to congratulate you, as well as all other citizens of Serbia, which, unlike the period in which you ruled, when we were under 100th place, or didn't even measure ourselves, since we couldn't measure ourselves in any way. So, in just two years from 91st place in the world's Duing Business List, Serbia came 47th. We will see that we are correcting our position, to show that we can do even better, but I also congratulate the citizens of Serbia. Congratulations to Serbia's citizens that we have managed to reduce unemployment from 26.5% to 15.2% and we will bring unemployment below 12% by the end of this government's term. These are things that are quite concrete and don't even talk about them, I'm not talking about it, the World Bank is talking about it, and I haven't heard that you're more of an expert than the World Bank people, or Jim Kim to replace you, and let's put you or Christine Lagarde in the IMF, and let's ask you, because you understand yourself better than they do in the economy, or maybe just in the loans, but now that we don't talk about it, it's not a debate. It's just, I think people think about it, I think they understand these things perfectly. As far as false statistics are concerned, there is no false statistics, no false number, because from the beginning, unlike you who sold Podokin's villages all the time, we've been dealing with, I'd say, a decent and modest way of concrete things and solving people's problems. We pulled the earth out of the hardest pinch, out of bankruptcy. Earth's on its way. Is it easy? It's not easy and it won't be easy next year, it won't be easy in two years, but it'll be incomparably better year after year than it was because we're finally on the road to healing and creating a normal and developed Serbian state. I, too, just in one more word I want to say about the stories of all spies and everything else, I want to inform the citizens and you, the honourable MPs, about one important thing. I want you to know that we have the increased functioning of various foreign intelligence agencies, security agencies in our country's territory, but that Serbian citizens should be calm because our security agencies, our security agencies, our intelligence teams are doing their job well and we are able to protect our country. I think that's important for citizens, they can be calm, calm and so far, except for the challenge in the political sphere, the regional sphere, and I would say in connection with this, I do not see the European future of Serbia as other huge challenges that can be a major obstacle to our path of Serbia's complete recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4782	Thank you. Would you like an update?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4783	Ten minutes of story, I didn't get any answers, as usual, nor did I get an answer whether that criminal was arrested, that spy, that he was giving secrets to, to which states, what he was betraying, why are we at risk? Don't be afraid of Serbian citizens, they can't fight spies, that's your job. It's the job of the interior minister, it's the job of the military, their security agencies, and he needs to deal with it. I don't see if there's a Home Secretary. I expected you to have replaced him today, because at the top of the CAP, how could someone work for years without the minister bearing any objective responsibility for what happened? I repeat the question – is he arrested, what is his name and who he worked for? The results of the helicopter, good intentions. The old proverb says - the path to hell is paved by the best intentions. Good intentions can't replace law enforcement. Law enforcement is the government's obligation, whether it's a defence minister, a prime minister or anyone else. The ambassadors who make candidates for presidents, to remind you, I think you've forgotten who you're talking to, I haven't been active in politics since 2004. What you're saying may have happened between, maybe, I don't know, but it wasn't in my day. In my day and this IMF and that World Bank have been bowing to what the government of Zoran Djindjic did, which I unfortunately had to lead for the last year. We got a big credit write-off, we got a new chance. That chance wasn't used the best way after us, but it's not happening today either. Therefore, you replace the Minister of the Interior, let whoever runs the World Bank and the IMF run it, that's not your problem. The ambassadors were seeing foreign ministers or assistants at the time, not the prime minister, not the president, at the time Serbia had normal authority. You say-- wages they never had, bigger than they ever had. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? There are people who worked in the 1990s and the average salary in Serbia was over 900 marks, today the average salary in Serbia is 370, according to the haired data, 370 euros. So let's not talk about it. Thirty-seventh place is, 47th place on the due business list is very good, but that's 37 places behind Macedonia, and we're in first place, we're in first place at risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4784	Time, thank you. I'm asking, do you want to comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4785	You know, Heckman said, with the dust we're raising, we're covering our nakedness. You see, Mr. Zivkovic, you don't understand certain things, and I understand that you don't understand the Code of Criminal Procedure, perhaps you'd better not understand it. The Code of Criminal Procedure has certain rules that you must follow and I cannot speak of the names of people under investigation, and that is not the job of the Prime Minister. If I said that, you'd be talking about reality and I don't know what I'm doing against the law, because whatever I do and whatever I say, you're going to say exactly the opposite. As to why the citizens are afraid, the citizens are not afraid at all. I said it a little while ago, but you didn't listen to me and you got the answer to every question you asked, and the other thing is that you don't like the answers. So no one scares the citizens, we introduce the citizens to what's going on. Unlike you, who say you haven't seen them, and the ambassadors told you who should be Prime Minister, and who can't, I'll remind you of the saga about you and Nebojsa Covic at the time, as forbidden to him, and someone else had to be Prime Minister, or how he had to, and someone else didn't, so what they were doing was both Charles Crawford and William Montgomery and everyone else. So, just don't remind us of those times, and don't let me tell you today that some ambassadors are going to tell you who are going to be presidential candidates and who has to listen. I am not one of those who listens, I am one of those who likes to hear his people and his citizens. Otherwise, the whole procedure has been carried out in accordance with the BIA Act, which I want you to study, too, a little bit better than you've studied the Criminal Procedure Act, so you'd understand what has to be done to bring a case against a certain person. What I think is much more important is that a practice has been interrupted in which it was completely normal and completely understandable and generally acceptable for certain foreign services to be given the act before Serbian prosecutors get it before it comes before our judicial authorities and before anyone else in our country has that act. Because that's how the most brutal influences and interferes with the internal affairs of a country. This is not a question of limited sovereignty, as exists in EU countries, you willingly agree. This is what Serbia has never voluntarily agreed to, and no country would willingly agree to this. Maybe you did, or some after you, I don't want to go in there. While I am Prime Minister, I will never agree to this kind of illegal cohabitation against the interests of Serbian citizens. Also, about the road to hell you keep talking about, I have to admit, I don't quite understand what you're talking about. That it's an attempt by some people to save a small child from New Pazar, a path to hell, or I don't know what, since you've established something that hasn't even established a disciplinary commission, which hasn't been established by a prosecutor, which nobody has established. What are you in this country? Judge? The prosecutor? As far as I know, you haven't finished any colleges, let alone law school. Don't give us sermons and lectures here. He's a college of agriculture? It's not. I'm sorry, I may have made a mistake. You might have done something. Anyway, what's very important, you're right, I was wrong, I didn't compare this time to the 1990s when many people had higher incomes, when many people had higher salaries. It's true, then the heavy '90s came, the bank robbers came in two thousand. I think it's something that people understand very well, and that's why we're taking it slow today, but surely, we're pulling the country out of a crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4786	Ambassador Radulovic, allow us to work. (Saša Radulović, from the post: I consult because you are not doing your job. Ambassador, you can hear how insulting you are. The microphones are too close. Don't insult us. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I do not insult anyone. I apologize, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4787	Jovan Ducic said a long time ago – people who hate, people who hate a lot, those are first... Thank you for the applause. [[Applause]] He talks enough about how right Jovan Ducic was, and what Jovan Ducic said, because I am sure you highly appreciate him and respect him. You don't know, of course you don't. Jovan Ducic said – people who hate, they are first fools, then they are cowards, and never heroes. Jovan Ducic was not only a great Serbian poet, but absolutely right, and you are welcome to continue. All those who want to hate continue to hate, and we will look to answer the arguments. Remember, honourable MPs, they asked me to come, every time they insisted that I come and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that they brought, and not that you brought, and it bothers them, and it doesn't suit them. I accept that we punish today and Jovan Ducic, because he was wrong about our future. He must have thought of some things in the past, but they seem to have been painted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4788	The word has a People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, a comment, two minutes later, and then a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4789	Now there's been six minutes of empty talk. I didn't get a single answer again. About the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, of course, that was true at the time when you were yelling – Cosmiac, and being brave, and only you can say that name, and now you've brought this procedure so that this Cosmack can't even be punished for wrong parking, let alone for something more. It was the same with some of the tycoons you and your ministers and your mayors take pictures with, and it's for a lot of people, for Miskovic. Yeah, yeah, yeah, at the same rally, remember. Hate, Ducic, that's right. Ducic was absolutely right, but you show hate. You can't cause hatred with me at all, perhaps contempt, but hate for sure. There's no doubt about it. Don't be afraid. I almost didn't hate anyone in my life and you're far from coming, the prime minister is far from reaching the level that I should hate him. Disdainful, I agree, possibly. At the end of the comment, let me ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4790	MP, no further questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4791	Please, I'm talking. After what's been said, I think it's very important to know how you are, Prime Minister? How's your health? Do you feel capable of the work you're doing? I'm asking for your best interest, so I'd like to have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4792	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4793	Mr. Prime Minister, you are today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure here in the RS and at the end of the month, together with ministers, you answer our parliamentary questions. For me and my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group, but most citizens are also the key issue of economies, economic development and investment that bring about a better life for Serbian citizens. The fact is that even the richest countries fight for foreign, direct investments and attract them as much as possible. Serbia realised in time that it must improve the economic environment in this direction, so to attract new investments in favour of all citizens. That is why we have taken all the necessary steps in ensuring economic and political stability, improving the quality of the law and making our bureaucracy more effective. With this in mind, Serbia has reduced the unemployment rate by 24% in 2012, today it is 17%. We've cut inflation from 12% to 1.7%, exports have been increased, and GDP is currently 2.7%. All this reflected in Serbia's position on the world's debt list, we progressed from 91 to 59 first, and now we are in 47th place. It is clear that, based on structural reforms, Serbia plans to become even more attractive for foreign direct investment. So my question to you is, can the Government of the Republic of Serbia reach the level of foreign direct investment of up to three billion dollars since last year they amounted to 1.8 billion euros? The assessment of economists is that, in order to achieve sustainable development, it is necessary for current total investment to be 25% of GDP. That's what you were talking about in the exposé, but I think it's very important for our economic stability and future period. I'd like you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4794	The word has Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you for the opportunity to talk about serious matters as well. I'll look back on that, and on the primitive, not only primitive and dirty, but I'd also say a question not only honorable, but it seems to me even decent people would never allow themselves to ask someone, especially in such a way. Those who enthusiastically applauded it were very few, show only that they were even worse than the lepers and the receivers who did it. You see, respected citizens of Serbia as they were immediately recognized, how primitiveism and prosaclouse are immediately recognised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4796	MPs, since I'm not from the former ruling majority, I won't give you a warning. Please show a little quieter for your emotions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4797	It's better if it's a little louder. Now let me tell you what's so nervous about, so the rest of you can know that. Last night, a large omnibus survey was completed, and the biggest fall is just being recorded by those who hate it the most. So much that you have in mind. It's about the will of our people. I just have to tell you that what you're trying to make of parliament is a circus or a fun park, that it won't come with your hand and happiness... [[Applause]] (Saša Radulovic, from the post: For this you are in charge. )......................................................................................................... And do not threaten, nor insult, nor shout; for much greater, wiser, and stronger than you have tried it, so it did not follow their hand, nor will it. You've managed to fix my mood, after a hard and hard day I feel much better in this atmosphere. So let me try to answer you. I don't think that if we don't privatise some of the systems in the next two years, maybe in the third and fourth years we'll be able to get to three billion foreign direct investment, but I expect that this year, if I'm not mistaken, I'm asking the people of the Ministry of Finance, I think we've had 42 million euros more in the first six months, but in the previous year. We expect a billion and 920 which, of course, will be the most significant and major inflow of foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans region. That's a relatively good result. If we loved more, we'd love to, but we didn't have any big privatisations and we couldn't get any more. In order to take into account how much more this is compared to others, we are twice the population of BiH, we had four and a half times as much investment in 2015. I think the same result will be in 2016. Also, we are starting to reduce public debt compared to GDP and with all the money he's given to the IBRD EPS, which we are guaranteed, that's 198m euros and 40m for Corridor 11, what we're going to open up in the next days, so it's now at 71.5%. I'll remind you, we planned, we spoke to you here, I was saying it would be a good result to be 78, 79%. Today it is quite certain that we will never reach such high numbers, which is good news for the citizens of Serbia, which means that we keep public finances under control and that these things are much better than they were before. We have been able to achieve a few things in the previous period that I am satisfied with and, of course, a few that I am not. Because it seems to me that a man who is satisfied with himself can never achieve more. I'm pleased with what we did with the Chinese and what we're about to do with the Chinese, the Bank Off China is coming to Serbia, it's going to be a new momentum for Chinese investors, and what they did to us with Jellyzar, it's a huge thing. Remember, in the last few months alone, we would have to pay 50 million dollars, and more than 50 million dollars, because the raw materials were already running out, not to mention that all the other components would have lost their jobs, which means that the de facto state would have cost at least 80 million dollars in the last few months. That's all we got with the successful privatisation of the Irons and we did it because we were worthy, because we were industrious, but God looked at us. We have managed to bring many Turks, many Turkish investors. Look in southern Serbia in places where we didn't have any factories, where we didn't have anyone, from Vlad's Han, Zitoraj, we're talking about Pcinjska, Jablanic and Toplička County, where our people live the poorest. Slowly things are moving, yet people can't feel it, but when I was now in Žitoraj people couldn't believe that after many years the factory would come to their place. When we were in the campaign, people also couldn't believe "Teklas" was a reality, today they see it is. More than 200 people work in that company. It is slowly but certainly expanding, "Bosforus" which is open in Alexinac and which today holds our "Progress" basketball clubs from Alexinac and local TV, radio and has made its own cookie factory and the latest hotel, the most modern etc. These investments will expand and we are satisfied with it. German investors are getting more and more. Everyone wants to invest as much as possible. We have a few things we expect to have in Hamburg in two or three days when we're confirmed there. So Nis, I want to cheer again. Another German company is coming to Nis, I wasn't sure during my stay in Nis, today I'm sure and will be confirmed in two or three days in Hamburg. Then I'll be allowed to go public with that. So these are the things that are good. Of course, what's not good, what we could do better is we could always do faster, it's that we're biting and cramping for every investor. We have many companies, many companies, more than before, so one Tony Verheim you will hardly agree that one Protestant, a Dutchman, will say that Serbia can enter these 20 countries in the world and you will agree that it will hardly be unserious and say that Serbia is progressing much faster than expected and that it also says the IMF, that it also says the IBRD and they are all ignorant. It's only those who hate big-time people and choose words. In answer to the question of how I am, whether I feel good, whether I'm healthy - I'm not complaining. I'm sure there are people who are physically healthier than I am, but I think it's how Napoleon used to say it and I'm not sure some people know it, and I didn't really understand what was funny to you. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You're ignoring yourself, man. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4798	Ambassador, read article 109. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: You said there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. ( ) Read Article 109. I'm telling you for your own good, because you don't like what you don't like most when I give you a warning because it goes in your pocket. So the other doesn't help. You've really gone beyond every measure of decency and behavior in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4799	I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that my abstention and not reacting to primitiveism and proscality is not an expression of my fear, but an expression of my respect for the citizens of Serbia. I am very proud of the fact that there is nothing else you can come up with out of anger and hatred except your false smile and loud applause because you cannot offer anything smart to the citizens of Serbia or to the MPs. To conclude, "the heart of a statesman and a politician should be in his head." That's what Napoleon Bonaparte said about my head she's certainly fine, thank you for asking. I'll try to keep it that way. Zoran Zivkovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4800	I ask the MPs once again, this time on the left, I will ask on the right if this is the case, don't throw it all the time. Make it possible for colleagues who want to hear the answers to questions to hear them. So I'm really asking you. We've never had this ugly atmosphere before. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Zoran Zivkovic throws. Don't throw it away, it's so ugly. You have no idea. The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4801	I am pleased with the answer you gave me about foreign direct investment, but my question to you is, since you mentioned a public debt that because of Serbian citizens, you also say what is the public debt at this point? We have been discussing both international agreements in parliament these days and the loan with the United Arab Emirates and Minister Vujovic has been very precise and correct answer to all our questions, but I still want to ask you - if we are in a surplus, why are we taking this loan and is there a risk, or the risk of negative exchange rates in view of this loan?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4802	I thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat certain things and explain to those who want to hear it because it's not always easy to connect everything. Public debt participation in GDP at the end of September 2016 was 70.8%. Today, as we estimate, after taking these two hundred, 198 million plus 40 million somewhere at 71.4%. We'll never get over 75%, and the World Bank and everyone else knows we've changed our trend, changed our trajectory, changed our trajectory, and no one's causing us any more problems. Today our public debt, the state of our public debt is not ideal, but I believe that we will bring it down much faster than we thought to bear below 60%, if I'm not mistaken, Dushan, which is a master level that is important to us. I also want to explain to people what it means and why you're taking the money. Let's say that in 2011, we took a billion dollars at the cost of 2%, and compared to the 7.55, the amount we took back then, we would have savings from even depending on the manual and on some other things between 300 and 800 million dollars is the difference for our country. So much for domestic behavior and business. On the other hand, I want to tell you that we don't take a billion. We signed the contract and we'll take 200 million when we need it. To understand now – and why you take 200 million – when we say we have a growth of 2.8%, 2.8% of you have about one billion new values, GDP growth, that means that in the state of Serbia we made one billion goods, services, values more than the previous year. So since public debt is always measured against GDP, when you take 200 million, you use it for additional growth, even 400 and 600 million. Everything below is not increasing public debt compared to GDP. You use this for further, above all, infrastructure works and further incentives for growth and development. That is why what we are talking about and what will be the main topic of the discussion and with some of our European friends who are coming to our country soon, I can announce on Monday that, one of the biggest countries in Europe, is a policy of growth, a policy of savings. We've got another year. We have to take care of it. And that's okay. We've completed our process, our process. What matters to us is growth policy. The bigger our economic growth, the easier it is for us to take money and encourage new growth. That's what people need to understand. Since I watched people criticise us – why you take money, it is important to take less money than percentage growth – 2.8% is a billion. I only ask the people of all and the people's messengers to understand that. Count 3% is your billion. When we have a billion-dollar growth, we can take a billion -- we haven't increased public debt. When we take 200 million, we take it and invest and stimulate growth. Let's put it in the roads, the tracks, everything else. That's the thing we do, and we take it at the most favourable interest rates, and it's not short-term loans, it's long-term loans. At the same time, we use that money when we take it in dollars. Dubravka, at the same time we use another thing – it serves us as a “hech fund”. What does that mean? We don't have to change dollars into euro, we have to change what's coming to us interest, anuity in dollars. We can pay in those dollars we now have without losing in exchange for the exchange rate differences between the euro and the dollar. We're acting absolutely domestically. I haven't had time to follow up on the assembly hearing, so you won't be angry, so I don't know if he's your professor. Vujovic explains the following thing – we are now talking to the World Bank to ask and bring down all our interest rates to average, what, 3.2 or 3.3 of what we had and what today is 4.8 or 4.9. We'll even try to bring it down to three, maybe even below that, that we don't have any problems in the future, that those who come after us leave an incomparably better situation than the one we inherited. All our parameters are good. That's why it was important for us to be patient with people, to be patient with the people, and that's why I'm grateful to the people who understood it. That's why all the world institutions speak best. When they talk about poverty, when they talk and show me this, and that's why I'm grateful, it's good to see that people in government work together, regardless of party membership, and that's why I'm grateful to the people of the SPS and other parties when they support and when they understand what the government is doing, and that's why I don't want to have this party's unification in which one or two parties have to do everything. No, everybody understands what it is we're really doing. You know what they're telling us? They say- hey, you're the nearest country with the greatest risk of poverty. You know whose conclusion that is, you know whose conclusion it is, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends? Groups of NGOs from Serbia who did so. A group of NGOs from Serbia came to that conclusion, not the World Bank, not the EBRD, not the IAB, not the IMF. And the World Bank said that in Serbia last year by 0.5%, which is not enough, this year by 1% the number of poor will be reduced, next year we go to reduce by 2% the number of poor, e, that's what the World Bank says, that's accurate and accurate data, that's what those who don't perform are saying, those who don't hate anyone, but those who read numbers, and the World Bank says 62,000 people are less poor and, above all, extremely poor than they were. But what's worth, if the facts don't match, that's worse by the facts. If someone doesn't like the arguments, they're up there by argument. And no matter what you say, no matter what you say, someone will always push you to the opposite side. And, of course, that is our problem. But we have to work, we have to do even more, we have to do even more, so people can feel it, because people don't see those numbers right away, and they won't see them right away, but they'll slowly and safely see them. And, don't forget, did they tell us until a few days ago that the tow truck can't get through the tunnels on the Ljig-Chac road? Here, as soon as I get back from Riga, with my tow truck, I promise them, I'm walking through all the tunnels and the whole route, to see the people, and how and how much money we invested, what that money went on, and to get the people on that highway. We'll also have a lot of heads saved, because it was one of the most difficult parts of the Ibar highway to date. We will do what some have promised for 70 years, so they will not do, and soon next year, we will be able to go to Sofia, at least as far as the Serbian part is concerned, will be a clear highway to Skopje, Thessaloniki, as far as the Serbian part is concerned, will be a full profile of the highway. From the Bismarck, who talked about it, we'll be the ones who make the highway after so many years and we'll be threatening Croatia in a number of kilometers of highways full of profiles. I think those are the things that are facts. Maybe somebody likes it, maybe somebody doesn't like it, and the one who says it's not true, I call him to go with me in the boot, so he can see if it's true or if it's a mirage, whether it's just like that or not. An emissary throws it out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4803	All right, take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4804	Dear Maya, you're from a respected law family. You haven't learned the bar primitiveism, but over time it's not bad to overcome it, because then you see that those who bag, yell, those who wave their hands and threaten, usually none of them ever do. So don't worry at all. The louder they get, the safer and safer you are. So don't worry at all, and I'm just getting better at it. I've had a very difficult day, a very, very, very hard day, after Brammertz, Mogerina and all the others, so that answers to you and the political victory over you come a little bit as a distraction. By the way, of course, to point to the people and other MPs certain things we've done. I'm delighted with your applause, but I'm asking you to take longer. It's always too short and not strong enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4805	Thank you. You don't want a comment? Thank you. Just a little bit to silence the ovation of enthusiasm. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4806	Dear Prime Minister Mr. Vucicu, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrljig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis, where you, Mr. Vucic, have been back a few weeks and thus shown that you value and respect every part of our Serbia. I'll ask you a few questions. First of all, will agricultural subsidies with an accent on livestock continue and will they be able to increase subsidies to mountainous and mountainous areas, underdeveloped municipalities and devasted municipalities? The second question, will it be possible to extrapolate to lend in agriculture, to make interest less, to keep the grace period longer, and to give the possibility for those most underdeveloped, mountainous and undeveloped municipalities? The third question, can credit also help cooperatives, since cooperatives are very important for development and agriculture and businesses? I always speak with an accent for southeastern Serbia, for mountainous and undeveloped municipalities, such as Svrlig, such as Gadjin Han, such as Bela Palanka and other municipalities in Serbia. Will the reconstruction of buildings, schools and health homes in the part of southeastern Serbia be under way, as we do in Svrlig? The plan is to reconstruct the school in Srlig, over 500,000 euros is worth. This is very important to us, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to help other municipalities, to complete, reconstruct schools and homes of health. The question is, is there a possibility that the physical hall in Srlig and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia could be completed? Will the government of Serbia continue to assist in modernising the Serbian Airport of Constantin the Great? We are witnessing that a year ago, a year and a half ago, with your help, the airport in Nis has received a much larger number of passengers, over 100,000 passengers are expected by the end of the year. I would like to know if the Serbian government will help modernize the airport, provide opportunities for more passengers up to 700,000? Nis Airport is very important for southeastern Serbia, for the development of tourism, for the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4807	Time, MP. In addition, you will continue. Minister Nedimovic will answer you first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4808	Dear Members of the People, Mr Miletic, I thank you for this series of issues concerning agriculture. We had opportunities during our stay in Nis to be in a lot of local communities, where I heard very often very few people came. These are municipalities that mainly have a character of underdevelopment, a huge character of underdevelopment, which are part of the fourth group of local self-government, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, Svrljig. In particular, as regards livestock, the Ministry's intention in 2017 is to continue to promote this branch of our agricultural production. We are currently, together with international financial institutions, doing an analysis of the measures implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The idea is that by half November we propose measures that will boost competitiveness, those that will improve the situation in Serbian livestock industry and that will increase both production quality and competitiveness. What is doubtless is that we don't have enough stock at this point and we have to do a lot of work on that plan. The idea is to develop processing capacities in this part of agricultural production, which is why we need sufficient quantity of livestock stock, whether it is porking, whether it is beefing, sheeping or goating. As far as Svrlig and your local community are concerned, it has been a great pleasure to see how local self-government along with the Ministry of Agriculture encourages this sector, but I have to tell you one thing that you and the president of the municipality have asked me there, and as far as the dairy plant that exists in your area and your concerns and concerns about the citizens of Svrlig, whether this drive will exist, I can now give you an answer, that drive will remain and function and it will benefit the citizens of Svrlig. As for all other underdeveloped municipalities that exist in southern Serbia, not only areas of livestock but fruit and vegetables represent good prospects have a medium and longer term on the world market for agricultural products. What you need to be the goal, the idea, the dream we're dreaming of is not just being sellers, the raw materials that have the quality of not selling cheap on the market. We need the idea to raise processing capacity, where we can process these agricultural products and, as such, with a higher added value, to export and make use of, both for the agricultural producer and for the processor, and also for the country in the excess agricultural products it exports. In 2017, especially in certain parts of agrarian policy, we will highlight undeveloped municipalities and a larger amount of subsidies in that direction, but we will have one new thing that we haven't had and a little talk about, this is the story of the White Palanca, the story of the Svrljig, the story of the Babušnica and the story of the healing plant that has tradition and the resources there and which already exist, especially in the White Palanca, which belongs to one of the most developed municipalities. We will look to install agrarian policy measures in this part to help develop this part, not only to raise the flag but also to process capacities. As far as cooperatives are concerned, you have witnessed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 encouraged with a higher amount of resources from those capacities developed in the form of cooperatives and provided greater financial support, which is what we intend to do in 2017, by stressing that 180 cooperatives are registered new under the newly adopted Co-operation Act. I have to say one thing I've seen these days when we were, the day before yesterday, when we were in the space of these five districts and the development of the "frezen berse" project, which the Ministry of Agriculture together supported with the Danish government, where the cooperatives teamed up and began to raise strawberry plantations. So, the thing is, it's going to live. We have the same thing in Arile with the refrigeration of the coolers where cooperatives raise refrigerators. It's our goal, to develop a story about cooperativeship, but we have a lot of problems here, a lot of people are cheated on by cooperatives in the '90s, late '80s. There are many who, whose jobs have been compromised and whose existence has been destroyed with the failed concept of cooperatives at the same time. This is the legacy that we have to fight and our Ministry intends to affirm this principle for one simple reason, because without a developed cooperative, little that we can do in agricultural production and in the processing work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4809	Thank you. Do you want a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4810	The questions, since I asked about the Low Airport with the development of the Low Airport and the development of tourism in southeastern Serbia, the promotion of the Stara Planina, I would also ask the Prime Minister and Minister of Government about the end of the road from Srljjig to Kalna, which remained 17,5km and is the closest destination from the Niško airport to the Stara Planina. Is that going to end in the next period? Whether it will help people living in mountainous mountainous areas in underdeveloped municipalities, such as Goran Vasic from the village of Beloinj where we visited him together with Mr. Prime Minister, man wants to deal with tourism, there is not enough resources to build a house, to build capacity, whether these people can be helped through investments or through agricultural investments or through the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. The next question, whether to continue bringing investors to southeastern Serbia, with an emphasis on these most underdeveloped municipalities that are demographically threatened, such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gadjin Han and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, as well as throughout Serbia. Next question, will the next year end Corridor 10? And, according to Dimitrovgrad, both towards Sofia and Thessaloniki. It is very important for our part of Southeast Serbia, because this will develop much more and that part of Serbia and all of Serbia. Is it going to start building the Nis-Pristina-Dras highway in the next 2017? Very important for our end, for our Serbia? The next question, did you and the Government of Slovenia, with Prime Minister Mr. Cerar, agree new investments along with them and whether you spoke about the succession, because the subject of the succession is one firm in Srljig, that is the former Krka where we will settle the problem by conflict and give the opportunity to employ people there. There's also a freezer, there's a dryer, and it's a big chance, it's 15 kilometers from the highway to Srlig. Another thing that is very important for all of us living there in southeastern Serbia is the development of an ecologically healthy environment. Through the possibility and investment for organic food, I expect that the Ministry of Agriculture will have special resources for organic production, for education and for helping people who do not have enough experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4811	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4812	First of all, I'm going to try to be very brief and concrete. We, as you know in Major and White Palanca, have built new halls, I would say beautiful and magnificent halls, you always reduce the amount of money dear Millie, when you take from the Serbian government it's always something less when you ask us to, and a little more when you take. So it's not 500, it's 600,000 euros, 76 million to get people to calculate and people to know well, that's what it is for school, and Milia to get rid of the gym. Again, dear Milija, who has done a lot for Srljig and the periodical end that people should know in Serbia that he has imagined Milija's gymnasium and that is the only reason why we haven't made a decision whether to invest and consider and a decision will be made in the coming days. That's because Millia's gym has 1,000 viewers, so it's a physical hall at Milia's. Yeah, it's not 1,000, but it's 760, okay, Milly. Well, that's what a gym looks like to him. In the plan for 2017, the reconstruction of the Svlig-Kalna road which we know is very important for you and when we talk about school facilities when we talk about otherwise health facilities, about all other facilities, I think it's very important to tell people that at this point supplies are for 234 objects in Serbia, 172 school facilities, no, excuse me, 72 school facilities, I'll check exactly 56 for social institutions, and I think it's for health care 72, and something is for education, if I'm not wrong, Sarcevic. So I'll give you the exact information to the end. In any case, we will look and always invest in the Srljig and other undeveloped municipalities of the so-called so-called "Skrelig". The fourth categories or the 19 poorest municipalities, but we also have to work on development. As far as the low airport is concerned, he has 75,000 passengers today, don't forget he had less than ten thousand, just two years ago. Also, don't forget, we've made a decision to continue investment in the airport, but we have to keep an eye on how we're going to work without damaging a national airline. And to cheer the Nislims, the Nis-Bratislav airfield's been going since Monday. I think it's 20 or 30 euros a ticket, so it'll be a plane flight from Nis to Bratislava with one of the low cost companies. Of course we're going to invest, I said that we're going to end these highways, and that's what we're going to do is contitiate the son of qua non progress throughout the south and southeast of Serbia, as well as Nis, Pristina, Durres, for us to be of great importance, that all the corridors, I would say, are sitting in Nis and Nis becomes the largest intersection of roads on the whole Balkans, if I were to say it, more significant even than Belgrade itself. Thank you very much. Now, don't cut the numbers we're giving us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4813	Thank you. A brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4814	I thank you, Prime Minister. I'm happy with the answers. I am sure that all of us who are here and you at the head of the government and MPs, all of Serbian citizens, will believe that what we have said will end. Once again, as a man, I highly respect your work, your commitment to all Serbia, with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, mountainous areas, undeveloped municipalities and those municipalities that are demographically one of the most endangered, but municipalities in which there is a future. As a real Serbian host and a man who respects both you and everyone here in the Assembly and all the citizens of Serbia, I would take the opportunity to congratulate you, as president of the SNS, to the Holy Friday. I would also congratulate all citizens of Serbia on Slava and wish everyone a lot of health and happiness and that this and next year they will be both born and noble in the field as well as in the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4815	Thank you, MP. Elvira Kovac, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4816	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, I would use this time to ask the question of out-of-body insemination, which is why, and today we heard Mr. Minister of Health talking about the problem of the population, and there is also the minister in charge of these issues. Unfortunately, not enough children are born for free reproduction and this problem, both health and social, has far-reaching consequences, and this is why we find it extremely important to treat infertility. As is known, the RSO has funded the programme since 2006, it is officially called – Biomedically assisted insemination. In order for couples to get involved in this program, they have to meet several conditions. One of the conditions is that a woman has infertility after adequate treatment, that she has no children, that she cannot give birth or that she has no living child. What I'd like to ask a specific question is that the current condition is that women can be involved in this program until they're 40 years old. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the content and scope of health protection rights from compulsory health insurance and on participation for 2016, this current year, came into force in mid-June 25th, and allowed RFZO to pay for the third attempt of out-of-body fertilisation. We certainly welcome the expansion of rights, meaning that not only the first two attempts are financed from the RFO, but also the third, which is for every praise. The problem is, however, this rule for next year is due by the end of this year. It is to be brought by the Administrative Board of the RFZO, of course, to be committeeed by the Government. Our question is, is the change of criteria planned? In fact, we suggest that this condition for 40 years to be the deadline extends to a minimum to 42. I would remind you that the simple way of life, the conditions of life are such that women decide to give birth at 30, 40 years later, that the practice in Europe is that this limit has moved to 47 years, e.g. in Slovenia, if we only talk about the region for 43 years and six attempts. This would mean a lot of couples and we could expand the workaround of the people involved. Of course we're clear, and the profession says that up to 45 women can participate in out-of-body fertilization and, of course, we're aware that money is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4817	Thank you. You'll continue in the supplement. Minister Lonchar has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4818	Thank you. You know that because of the large number of people who were interested in out-of-body insemination, we signed contracts with private clinics and that at this point we don't have anyone on the waiting list to have any problem waiting to go, just for that very reason not to enter that period after 40 years for all those who meet the conditions and who decided to go to out-of-body insemination, that this is now within the shortest possible time. All private clinics that met the conditions signed a contract with the Fund and can go to it. The other thing, you know that one part of the local self-government is already funding a third attempt at out-of-body fertilization and it's no problem to continue with it or to move from 40 to 42. What we're doing, it's just an analysis of how interested they would be, what kind of interest they're in. Because the World Health Organization, you know, has some of its own criteria that it supports. That's up to 40, that's optimal, that's fine. We agree to change time, change everything. We're doing that analysis, and we're going to be going out very soon with a concrete one, I mean by the end of the year, with concrete views about it. Of course we'll look at it all the way, if we're able to do it. I'll go back to your first question. Today were the days of the Public Institute of Health Batut, and I insisted that the institution should be involved as soon as possible. In Serbia, we have not been satisfied with the birth rate for some time. We want to fix it, get everybody involved as a whole of the government, multiple ministries. We have absolute support for the Prime Minister and we want to take advantage of it, and we also think that citizens understand it and want to participate in it. We're building a strategy to go out with her and get all these things that are being concluded that they have to, that they have to be done, that they're being implemented and that we get much better results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4819	Thank you. Would you like an update? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4820	I thank you for your response and thank you for just mentioning the financial support of local self-government units, because we know that there is a Law on the Treatment of Infertility by Biomedical Aided Insemination and that there is also a draft that passed the public debate at the beginning of this year. It is likely that the law will be found before the MPs at the end of this year or next year. But this issue of years is regulated by this regulation that I mentioned, and the Health Protection Act allows an autonomous province, local self-government, means, municipalities, cities, to either finance or co-finance, and that happens to many local self-governments. Now it was the third attempt, but probably because of these changes it would be possibly the fourth attempt. I completely agree that there's a 40-year limit around here. But I'd like to point out a particular problem. I am, of course, without going through everything, we have no time, no local self-government, but I have sought several examples of both Vojvodina and Serbia, and found that for example. Women from Smederjevska Palanka, Prepolje, Kings can participate until 44 years old. The border is 42 years in Kragujevac and Pancheva. In Kruševec, the age limit is 50 years, in Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica, Vranja, Aleksinac is 45 years old. I stress this because there is a particular problem. So imagine a couple who decided, treated, and, thank God, today, thanks to medicine, success can be greater. We have a huge problem, according to some research in Serbia, about 400,000 couples have some kind of problems with conception. Of course, it can be treated otherwise. But if this is the only option, so it happens in practice, what do you do in that case if a couple starts to heal and arrive at the first try when a woman is 38, 39, and, say, living in Pancheva, where up to 42 years old, she has the right to come out, according to the current rule for this year to 42? She's 40, and she can't go out for another try, and she's entitled to a third. So these are specific problems, which is why this discrepancies. How do you solve something like that? As of next year, I say, if this rule changes, if they have a chance, or from, it means that the unit of local self-government is funding the fourth attempt, it's going to be similar again. That's why I think it needs to be coordinated somehow. Of course, it makes sense if someone goes through all of this, and you know it's a condition that they have to take advantage of all the attempts paid by the RFO, and in this case there's really this gap and inconsistencies. That's why we wanted to point to this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4821	Thank you. The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4822	I would like to really thank Kovac for the question which is one of the central issues, which was also apostrophe of the prime minister in his exposé and which has this government regarding demographics and population policy, put into focus today's meeting. It's actually about the fact that in Serbia, we have 38,000 people less every year, because natural growth is bad, that the birth rate and mortality rates are developing so that it is a negative population trend and because, of course, the most promising measures, according to the Birth Simulation Strategy, and the document itself exists since 2008, now has its foothold, not only in the social activities and activities of individual ministries, but it already has, we must say openly, and significant political and state support. In that sense, I would like to say that the most intelligent measures, among other things, and the ones you're talking about, because the limit of birth, the first birth, the parental limit, are moving more and more, and there is great justification for thinking about moving, or extending the period within which biomedically assisted insemination should be applied. But what is a fact, it is that we must also take into account the views of experts on when it is a risk for a woman to proceed with this procedure, and the rules of profession and, of course, will and insight into that it is a social, one of the most significant tasks, they must agree and the answers must be in line with all these needs. Of course, what I'd like to say is that the effects of applying innovative measures can be estimated through a rather long period of time. The success unit is five to ten years old. All that we are doing now, and it is an integral approach to a large number of ministries, the Ministry of Health, which Minister Loncar spoke of, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, of course the Ministry without portfolios which, by decision, i.e. the belief that this is a very important job of the prime minister assigned to the minister without portfolios, i.e. to me, the Ministry of Information. Camping is very important in this whole process. Without financial support and without working to psychologically raise the level of need, to realize that parenting is not only a sacred need, but one of the patriotic duties, I would say, and from the drive that needs to be satisfied, because the combination of natural and social, we must all work until the moment when individual consciousness and insight into that we need to work together on this issue, we do not have positive answers, we cannot say that we have taken a significant step. But this government is really ready to work on demographics, and now that we've been in southeastern Serbia, I've gone with my team to the very areas that are characterized by depopulation parameters. In Crno Trava, for example, no child was born last year, and according to the 2011 census data, it is estimated that Babusnica, Crna Trava and some other municipalities will record the trend in the coming period, especially by 2040. We're really going to have to do a lot of work here. Therefore, both resorient ministries and institutions and individuals and the non-governmental sector can be involved by doing so. Of course, support for the media and your MPs is extremely important, and units of local self-government are already contributing through the parameters that you, the honourable MPs, have presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4823	Thank you. A comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4824	Thank you. I've just raised this question today because this is an inter-resor question and now that we have the entire government, we've had the opportunity to hear the answer from more ministers. It may be more difficult in writing, but I really ask you, when the Government approves of the amendments to this Regulation, or the adoption of a new rule for next year, to keep an eye on and to think in this direction and to see how specific problems can be solved, that everyone really enjoys all the rights they have. This is my final comment. I would like to point out, to remind all of us that the country is behind the largest natural growth in all of Europe, interestingly, Iceland and Scandinavian countries. I don't have time to talk about why. Economic, social and political conditions are needed. And that's possible, as you say, dear minister, it will be seen in a few years, and for all of this society must be without dramatic social inequalities, to be a society of institutionalised solidarity in which human and minority rights are all protected and promoted. I am sure that Serbia is an inclusive society, a tolerance and that it will be even more open and richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4825	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4826	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, honourable fellow Members, my questions are mostly social, but I'm asking them to the prime minister. I want to ask about some life stuff. It may be important to us spies in this country, but more importantly, in Novi Sad, for example, the services of folk cuisine are used by as many as 3,000 citizens. Also, we know that our statistics are very dreary in the villages. Of 4,709 villages, 1,200 villages are in decline, 50,000 empty houses we have, we have 150,000 houses where no one lives. I'm asking you -- how are we going to deal with this life thing? Also, I ask you, when will you return your pensions to the citizens and when will you pay back? Also, I'm asking a question that concerns Vojvodina. The construction of the Moravia Corridor, from Pojat to Preljina, and the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma has long been highlighted as a priority. The tunnel through Fruska Gora is also announced as a priority and will be done in the future. From an idea solution, which was made and done since 1982, nothing has been done to this day. I ask the prime minister – will the 2017 budget find funds to build a Fruskogorje corridor with a tunnel through Frusko Gora, which are the funds, do you know? The length of the highway Novi Sad – Ruma with tunnel is about 27 kilometers, and passes through three municipalities – Novi Sad, Irig, Ruma and 400,000 inhabitants live on the length of the highway, which means that there are about 30,000 business entities, 12 industrial zones and several free zones. I thus show that this highway is of great priority, not just for Vojvodina. The tunnel and the highway would connect Serbia with Romania and Croatia. Another problem I want to highlight is the problem of citizens living on that part of the highway, now another time Novi Sad – Ruma. We know well that, unfortunately, the city of Irig becomes a city of ruins, that around 15,000 vehicles pass through that city daily, citizens are desperate, they don't know what to do, because apparently they're being torn down by houses, children are being killed, and the simple life in these settlements is becoming unimaginable. You have repeatedly pointed out to the Prime Minister that this time is a priority and that there is no need to make Lex specialis as for "Belgrade on Water", because we can finance it ourselves, so I'm interested in when it will be?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4827	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4828	I appreciate the opportunity to answer all your questions. I believe you're metaphorically saying that children are killed, since we don't have the information that the child died in Irig. I guess it was a make-up for TV cameras. (Olena Papuga, from the scene: not true.) It's not? You have, then, that the children died. When? (Olena Papuga, from the place: In those years.) I asked you. You asked me. Well, we don't have the information. We just checked with the police department. We don't have any information that the children are killed or that the children may have died in your time. Not in our time. No one died, at least that's how we saw it. So, I just want to tell you what it looks like when the charges are poured without order and when you don't take care of what's being said. I'll try to answer every question with all due respect, of course. So you're absolutely right, you're talking about it and not from '82, but from '72. the years of the French Corridor and for all that time nothing was done. I want Serbian citizens to know, therefore, since '72. Or since '82. For years, we don't even have an idea project done for the French Corridor. As any election campaign, so they started talking about it. We'd talk a lot, and in the end we didn't even get to the idea project. Today I want to tell the citizens of Novi Sad and the citizens of Irig and Ruma, so all of Srem if you want, that we have set aside the money and that we are doing all the projects, that in the first half of next year we will finish all the projects and that we will finally start to build the Fruscogorian Corridor. It's our job that's not easy and it's not easy because every such investment requires us to take money from that growth I've told you about. So, having in mind that these works will certainly not be less than 27.5km without any doubt, precisely because of the tunnel and heavy terrain that works below 300m and 350m euros. So it's something that's a big investment for us, along with all the projects and other things we have to do. So, yes, we'll do it, but it won't be done in half a year or a year, but I believe that in the next three years, the whole project can be completed by the end of this government's term. So, after '72. And after '82. For years, I think that's what we can do. Since you said that on the way back, I have nothing to pay back, because you were giving what we didn't have, because you were giving what we didn't earn and taking it from our children. Taking from our future, giving us something that made our deficit five and six and seven percent. That's what I'm telling you about the real one, not the reported deficit. Because you've always had under the line all the public enterprises and all the things that aren't public enterprises, but stock companies, etc., from RTB, Jelizara and everything else. So, I have nothing to return, because we've done something that people have. For the people to understand, you didn't leave us at the Pension Fund enough money to pay our pensions. You left us dear friends for 51, no matter what 42% you left us, we paid 58% from the budget, from what we make today. Today we manage to earn more and pay 38.39% from the budget, and 61% from the Pension Fund, because today we're building a real Pension Fund that hasn't been left behind. Today, the Pension Fund again begins to exist, unlike when we came to power and when we entered the government. It's people, it's for those who know how the system works, how the state works, how the budget works, and there are MPs here who know it, you know it. You know, I'm great at telling the truth, because we couldn't pay off any pensions if we had continued, we wouldn't have paid any of them, we wouldn't have paid any more wages because we would have gone into total bankruptcy. Because it went geometrically, it can't go on anymore. Why do you think the IMF and the World Bank and everyone else today praise all measures of the Serbian government? Because we've managed to change all the negative currents, and today everyone's very positive. That's why we can think not only of the French Corridor. That's why we're thinking about "storage schnell," I don't know how the translation is with us, two plus two bands, and you don't have between that section, about that between the New Sad and Zrenjanin. I'm also thinking and I'm going to talk to Prime Minister Colossa about how and how to get the highway through southern Banat. We talked about it, and since ′72. and from ′82, and from ′92. And since 2002, we've never done any of that. We've talked about everything since 1972, 1982, and now come on, Wolf, come on, Serbian Government, do everything we've talked about since ′45. and ′72. I don't have a problem with that, we'll do it. As for the story of the number of poor, of course, Serbia is not a rich country. Today, the salary of 376 euros is average, I believe that already in January, February or March will be around 420, as I said and with what we will do and with the increase in minimum earnings, because we have 360,000 people who have minimum earnings. They're doing a direct 8% increase, count at least 10%. It's mostly a private sector, but we've got it a little bit in the public sector. It's usually about cleaning women, people with the lowest level of expertise who work hard and hard. We're also going to increase public sector wages further and some will have higher salaries than they had before the cuts, but that has nothing to do with whether you took something or didn't, but it has something to do with whether the state earned it or not. Whether we've earned it in the public sector or not. It's not the jar you've got to get all you want out of. Because someone's been watching the state like that, that's why our country's been destroyed. People are talking about that in 2009 we had a growth of -3.6%, growth is said to be a 3.6% drop. This year, despite the fiscal consolidation measures, we go to +2.8, next year we go to +3.6. Now you want to convince me that negative 3.6 is better than plus 3.6? You'll hardly convince me of that. What does that mean? In order for ordinary people to understand what that means, -3.6 means that we made a billion and 200 million euros, we created less values in one year than in the previous year, and +3.6 means that we created a billion and 200 million euros more in that year. That's two billion and 400m euros in differences, in these numbers to 36.37 billion in GDP. So I'm talking about huge differences. I know you know all this, I understand that the opposition or former government doesn't have to say anything good about the government, but there are some facts that don't touch, which are simply facts. It's numbers. I think it's very important that people know. Thank you for letting me say that. For folk kitchens to use 3,000 people I know there were more and I hope there will be much less of them, but neither have we threatened the folk cuisine, because I'm going to remind some of them who have spoken about how we've abolished the folk's cuisine and made the affairs out of it, as they've invented the affairs of my false birth statements and some of them have now come out of here, until a moment ago, they've said, some have apologized and been correct, and some have completely confused my statements from one part of my speech in another and in such a way. That's not how politics is run. If you have something to criticise, say what it is, and not what it is, you're like, you said it and we didn't say it anywhere. Thank you for asking, that we will do the Frushkogorski Corridor after 1972 and after 1982, and we expect your support on this matter. As for the ruins for one thing, you're absolutely right, I'm terrified when I go through Irig, those three buildings that are literally in ruins, and I'm going to personally see to it what they belong to, whether it's public property or private property and try to change it. Thank you for pointing out. I can't make it anywhere, but I'll make it as fast as I can and I'll fight. It's my job to fight along with all these people and together with everyone, with all of you to make the ruins as small as possible, and to make beautiful halls and beautiful objects as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4829	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4830	Thank you. I would only ask you to tell me - how much in the budget for 2017 will be allocated to the French Corridor and how much will be allocated to the tunnel through Fruska Gora? If we had previously passed the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, then perhaps Vojvodina could build that corridor by means of its own means. You just wouldn't ask the Republic for funds. So now there's no jurisdiction, so it's come to what's happened. These constitutional 7%, we know what has led us and that the Republic has been cut off by a few billion Duchys, and perhaps it really wouldn't have been from these funds that Vojvodina lives the way it lives. I'm asking you, perhaps, even so -- when will the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina be passed, and is a new constitution being prepared?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4832	So, just one thing. We've established that no child has been killed by the ruins, now and officially. So, you didn't, as far as that goes, tell the truth. It's important that people know. We had a serious car accident in 1992, and I'm sorry, one face died, and it hit a passenger vehicle on a bus, but there was no death of children, or anything else from the ruins. So that was a very bad metaphor. As for money for the province of Vojvodina - of which 7%, of the expenditure? Wait, wait, I know what it says in all our constitutional acts and the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Well, 7% of the expenditure. So that's how much we give 56.5 billion over 798 million, I don't see where the problem is. The problem is something else, which we today ask many people in Serbia – what does the province of Vojvodina finance, people don't know that they say, why do we give it? How do we give it? How much? Why? Here, we have promised, we will not reduce the prerogatives of the authorities and competences of the province's government nor of yota, but people need to know that this is for development projects, that we give those 7% of our expenditures to development projects in Vojvodina. The province of Vojvodina, therefore, does not have its own or very few original incomes. There's no obligation, except to its institutions, no obligation. So, there is no obligation towards pensioners, there is no obligation to pay in the public sector, there is no obligation to make roads, and what it has taken as a commitment to roads, it has not done and has again asked the Republic Government to take over, as well as the railways, as it has to complete the infrastructure, not counting on what the locals have. No social obligations, no obligations to anything. But that's -- how much we take from Serbia, so how little are we going to give over there? Well, so far, it's been a practice -- half a drink half a charm gives, and that's what people need to know. That's why we had a government session to agree to carry that money rationally and spend it the best way possible. As far as the rights of the province are concerned, we have come to the point that we have a large number of municipalities in Vojvodina that belong to the third and fourth categories of poverty. That's what we want to change. That's what we want to change. We want to live much better in Vojvodina, and that's why we have 118 facilities to invest in today. We invest billions and 790 million in buildings in Vojvodina. This cannot be invested by the province, is being invested by the Serbian government. Does it matter who's going to invest? Does it matter who's going to invest? We're open to talking to you to see how we can pass the County Finance Act. I don't have any problem. I just want to come up with some serious arguments. We just want to get some serious arguments. So we know why we're funding something. Let's see where we give that money. Because all citizens of Serbia and those of Vojvodina have a hard time earning that money and we want to see how that money is spent. We want to see how and why, in what way? We had so much we didn't invest in "Matica Srpska", here we have now, and we are investing in "Matica Srpska". We have every minority community and their vote. But these are the money that eventually comes to you from a republican level, from the incomes that the Republic of Serbia generates and I don't want to bring down, I don't want to take anything away from anyone, I just want to tell you that we need a serious and rational debate on this issue, not just to finance a bureaucratic structure, but to see what it really is that we need to finance in the province, what it really is we need to allocate money to. I think that's the key question. For these ruins, I'm not saying that we can solve everything, but at least we'll get some done and make sure that what you said was happening, and it's not, that it never happens in Irig.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4833	Thank you. A comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4834	I'm sorry there's talk of the duchy giving. The Duke is not given, but returns to the Duke. I don't understand now, as if the Dukes don't pay taxes, as if the Dukes don't pay electricity. We know the Dukes are the biggest payers of all. Every account that comes in, it's in the mentality of the duchy to pay all the bills. So what you're saying is that the Vojvodina is given, no, the Vojvodina returns what it deserves, but that's just part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4835	Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4836	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister, gentlemen of ministers, is an important topic, which is the number of poor people and the fight against poverty in Serbia, by the prime minister in this work today as if the number of poor people in Serbia had been brought out by some evil NGOs and that it was simply not true. Now I call on the Prime Minister to face two other sources. One is one that he loves very much, which is research. He was talking about some research today. He likes to do research, whether or not he would win the presidential elections and not participate in them. The research suggests that more and more citizens of poverty and poverty in the last two years have been cited as the biggest problem they face. Of course, unemployment is far the biggest and it is 60, 70%, but for the first time in these studies people talk about poverty and poverty. Let's go back to what we can all check right now, and that's World Bank data. This is the World Bank's 2015 report. In it, the poverty rate in Serbia is 25.4%, just as those evil NGOs are saying. On the site, I have now gone and watched data on Serbia, you will find that the number unfortunately increased by 1% and 2014 on this percentage compared to 2013. Whether it's less than one or not, it doesn't really matter. Essentially, does this government take any concrete measures, does it have a plan, did it bring a strategy to do something about it? That's also my question for the Prime Minister and the Minister in charge of this matter. Minister, in this report to the World Bank, you promised to change the Law on support for families with children for June 2015. That's the way it is. It passed in June 2015, June 2016, those changes did not come to parliament. Now you announce them for a moment in the future, as you all announce for a future time. We need it today, we need measures today. There are only a few ideas in this alone in which our social support can be much more effective and that by 8% we can reduce this number of people at risk from poverty. I'm calling on the government to work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4837	Who wants to go first? Alexander Wolfie or Alexander Vulin?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4838	First of all, I didn't understand everything about the research. I've got research. Otherwise, the percentage of those who talk about poverty and poverty is lower by 7% than it was before, and the unemployment rate is even 9% smaller. As for the total number of unemployment, it's significantly smaller, not only about the impression when you're talking, but also in actual numbers. So, to remind the citizens, in 2012, we had 26.5% of the unemployed, today 15.2% of the unemployed by the absolute same methodology accepted and recognised by the EU. So whether you like it or don't like it, there's no place in Serbia we don't have, maybe there's someone, but from big cities, and even from smaller cities, there's no place where we have more unemployed than we've had. That's one good thing. I'm surprised you're not looking and not following where and how many factories we open. Is it hard and do we have a high unemployment rate? We have, 15.2% is a huge unemployment rate, and 12% when we have, is a huge unemployment rate, but it's going to be much better than 26.5%, as it was in your time. That's the facts. As far as the World Bank is concerned, the World Bank said we had less poor than we had for 0.5%. Otherwise, certain world agencies are taking over reports from domestic NGOs. I don't mind, I don't know what it's called, the Roma NGO "Sun" from Kragujevac or some other, well done, I never said they were evil. I'm just saying that it's based on the views of individual NGOs, not on numbers and not on facts, and absolutely nothing else. Also, you know perfectly well that I'm right about what I'm saying, as well as many other things. I told you, not once, you're always welcome to work together, always work together to show that we can have even better results. If you have any ideas, but it is not an idea – increase social contributions, we have not reduced social contributions by a single dinar, despite the severe crisis in which we were left behind, we have not reduced social donations by a single dinar. To increase social giving, except in certain areas, just when we talk about pregnant women and maternity mothers, where we want to do it, it's impossible for us. That's what let one who's insecure say. It's my job to tell the truth, and the truth doesn't have many friends, and there aren't many fans, and whoever likes to go into the people and speak, when we come to power, we'll increase everything, they're irresponsible and irresponsible people. We will increase when growth is big enough to allow us to do so, but before we increase other social benefits, first we will invest in infrastructure and increase further economic growth, so that we can mobilise forces, so that our social benefits are much greater. You know what it means, what difference does it make when we say today that we need everything, it's huge money, just 37, 38% to finance from the pension budget? And it took 61%. What's that progress compared to what we had before? That an ordinary man can understand, when people talk and underestimate a thousand dinars for pensioners, at 1,770,000, 1,780,000 pensioners, so a thousand dinars just to give to the pensioners, that's a billion and 780 million. So, just a thousand to get every pensioner, that's a billion and 780 million. The state pays for it in time, no day of delay. Is that enough for people? It's not. It'll get better and it'll get more. Now we plan to bring them a one-time payment, so that people can spend easier and better on fame, who celebrates, and Archangel Michael and St. Nicholas, and New Year and Christmas and all the other holidays, we also think as little as we can increase the constant pensions, we think we can raise salaries in the public sector. We increased the minimum profit by 8%, except people didn't understand it when we're talking from 21,200 and 22,800, so we increased it by 8%. It's not much, but it's a stone for a stone for a palace. These are serious results. If we had that kind of growth every year, we wouldn't have a problem. In five years, there would be no big problem, we would discuss some other topics here today, and it seems to me that the topic spoken by Slavica and Zlatibor would be absolutely the most important topic, which I think is the most economically important topic for us. To have solutions, we don't. When someone mentioned whether it was Elvira Island, it wasn't because of the highest standard. They feel threatened and also know that they can only advance if they have more inhabitants. You have some other Scandinavian countries that have had the lowest rate of natural history for many years. We need to find different areas of different dimensions. That's why Slavic's job is the most complicated. That's why I said he's working six months on it, and the Macedonians have done something about it, find your experts, do everything you can, let's see, because we're not sorry. We'll single out, you'll see, in the new budget and certain financial resources to help, we just need to know what we're doing. We've been talking for years -- help a third child, but it's not our problem in a third child, it's our first child's problem, first and second child's problem, not our third child's. We have 1.45 children, and we need 2.35 to have a normal reproduction. This is how we lose 30,000 to 40,000 people every year. In any case, as far as the Vojvodina thing is concerned, whether something is coming back or not, people, we want to invest in Vojvodina, we want Vojvodina to be richer to us, but so do we take from all other citizens of Serbia, as we take from the citizens of Vojvodina. How to finance the state, but from the tax. Why do I chase so much and beg people to take fiscal bills, because whoever doesn't take a fiscal bill took his own path, took his own school, took his own hospital, took his own kindergarten. What's the difference between a man from New Sad and a man from Nis? If you will, I'm closer to Vojvodina, if for nothing, my mother is from Vojvodina. I don't really understand what the difference is. Out of all this great care for Vojvodina, we have led to a greater number of poor municipalities in Vojvodina than in south-east Serbia, all of which are deeply and terribly concerned about Vojvodina. I want Vojvodina to not be poor, but Vojvodina to be industrially agriculturally rich, to be just as certain municipalities today are rich, which had a minus of 500, 600 million, billion in their budgets, and today they have 200, 300, 400 and 500 million in their accounts. How much Ruma, Martinovic, has on account today, and she has over 100 million, had a minus 500 million and 600 million. These are the things we want to change and these are the real results we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4839	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4840	Thank you. If you allow, of course, the state is fighting poverty with its social policy and, as you know, no single social giving is reduced by any single dinar, not at the time of savings. It was the government's decision. Not a single one. I'll remind you, though, when we talk about fighting poverty, there's no better fight against poverty than increasing the number of jobs when you hire someone. Sometimes that someone gets to be on welfare, even if welfare is bigger than when he gets the right to work, when he gets the chance to work. What we do and how we do, I'm just going to give you an example that since 7 December 2013, when a ban on public sector employment has been introduced, so here we have an increase in the number of people registered outside the public sector by 137,854 persons, that is 137,854 workers who pay their contributions. This is how it fights poverty, and thanks to this, from 2013 to today we have paid 31 billion dinars more than we planned. Now, that's a fight against poverty. Since Vojvodina was also mentioned in the context of folk cuisine, let me tell you that there are 77 national cuisines in the Republic of Serbia. They all work, they're all funded by the Republic of Serbia, no one's left without their meal. No one's happy that it exists, but what's up to us, that's what we're gonna do. Here, let me tell you, for the first time since 1999, the government of the Republic of Serbia will complete the restoration of all the national cuisines in this country. It's not much fancy, as some like to say, you can't brag about it much, it doesn't sound political good, but it's a way to show how worried we are, if a man is poor doesn't mean he doesn't have his dignity, doesn't mean he shouldn't eat the best, the healthiest and we do it. And that's how this government of the Republic of Serbia behaves. Just to tell you, speaking of Vojvodina here, I would like to remind you once again that the Vojvodina region is the largest number of beneficiaries of financial social assistance compared to the number of inhabitants. The richest part of our country, and it's hard to get this government and it's hardly possible that she brought this government back for this period while she was working here and living. So, social aid, all forms of social protection are preserved to the extent possible and increased and you will see it in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4841	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4842	I have to admit, I'm disappointed. Disappointed because the answer was both from the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, we did not reduce social contributions to the dinar. What's the problem with our system is that it's inefficient, which wrongly targets vulnerable groups and hasn't been working on for years. The help law with families with children was last amended in 2009, the last social grant reform was implemented in 2011. You said – give us a proposal for a month, I've been trying to get most of the bill on amendments to the Law on the assistance of families with children, and I've never received a single vote from the representatives of the SNS and the ruling majority. This is not a proposal to be linear or not to know how to just increase the donations, but precisely on the basis of this World Bank report that says what weak spots are, why is only 35% of the 1/5 poorest citizens receiving any social assistance? That's the information you can read here. So I'm showing you where I'm talking and what data I'm using. It's something we want to talk about. And we have a proposal and we don't say seas anyway. Let's talk about him. If the minister can't do something, here's what we did, so even if you give us an answer, it's not good, but we gave you something. No, you said, Mr. Wolfie in the first sentence - we want to do something. Here, there's him for a month, he came to the government, we didn't get an answer from the Ministry whether the proposal was good or not or whether it's possible or not. Please, if you want to discuss it, let's start using the same data. So, here I am asking you to call the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic data table 1. Table 1. And then let's see what the data is that we're going to use. Shall we talk about GDP growth? Let's go, since 2001 with 13.8 billion in 2011, 33.4 billion, two and a half times more. The GDP total of Serbia from 2001 to 2011 is growing from 13 billion to 33 billion. In 2015 he was on this site 32.9 means less than in 2011. Our GDP is lower by four years as you rule Serbia, it is smaller. The growth rates to talk about, foreign investments, we can, here's where it all says everything. The unemployed? Where's that 26%? Where did you find this information? Where did you find that information? It's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4843	Thank you. Now you'll get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4844	I'll try to answer you right away. There's no need to get angry, I'm accepting a conversation about the law. Anyway, you didn't read it right. You didn't read well because you didn't take care of growth, I'll tell you every year – in 2009 minus 3.6, your next plus 1.4 is your next minus coma again, we haven't recovered since 2008. It's only this year we've recovered, we'll have more GDP than in 2008. Not until this year. You can watch what you want, otherwise everything you're correcting you need to tell the citizens is not minus 3.6 but minus 3.1. So it's minus 3.1 how can you say that minus 3.1 is good compared to plus 2.8? Just explain that math to me. Don't people are not people from the World Bank and the IMF or stupid or crazy. It is only this year that we will cross in 2008, precisely thanks to the terrible crisis. In 2014, we had minus 1.8 and thanks to the terrible floods, you just forgot to say it, but in 2013, we had plus 2.3 which you didn't have in any year from 2008 until 2012. Not in one year. I'm talking about 2013. I'm telling you now about 2015 where we had plus 0.8 that all people know the exact data in Serbia, because I'm not hiding anything, we had plus 0.8, remember that these were the years of the most difficult measures of fiscal consolidation to make people realize we're starting our growth economically, which I know you know about investment and exports. On investments and exports, which are two key components. What is it that we want today? And with this increase and salary and different incomes for pensioners, etc. We want to increase growth through consumption. What the Czech Republic did last year, that's what we want, that's what we do. That we have three pillars of growth, which are investments, exports and consumption. That's three things we're working on. So I also said, that's why I said one important thing, we want to have a growth of over three percent every year, and we're going to have, we're going to have. We could do this only after the difficult reforms, after the hard Labour Act that I know you were personally, and the other thing was what many other people in Serbia were saying. Today it is something that has led us, among other things, to such good results. When we have 3.5% next year, we'll be able to take a billion to spend on some other things and go to an even bigger increase in wages and pensions, and that people can live better, but we need years of permanent stable growth of over 3%, and not from a 2% drop in 3%, as we had before. Today we have absolutely everything in mind I would say our economic performances under control, just as all the world's organizations say. It's up to us to see how we do it and how we do it in the future. I think we have a good chance. As far as your bill is concerned, I don't have any problem seeing it, I'm just asking you right now to tell me how much more money we need to allocate. If it's just a redistribution and how I'm willing to listen to your proposal, just don't let it come down to us that we have to allocate the new tens of billions of money, because we don't have that money. And we're not gonna spend what we didn't earn. If you think we can do a better redistribution, you are welcome every day to the cabinet of the minister and to me, I will personally receive you, because I think that is a very important question. We want the poor to get real protection and no abuses, and always and at all times you're welcome, and I don't have any problem with that, just so you don't come, that last member is terribly important, which is a financial effect, just don't let the financial effect be such that we have to worry about the deficit again, to meet our political needs or anyone else's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4845	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4846	I'm glad we finally get to talk about the same numbers, I agree. Here, same numbers, based on the same methodology, just different times. In 2008, according to the National Employment Service, the same methodology was measured in 2016, so in 2008, the unemployed were 755,000 935 today, 684 thousand 820. Same numbers, same methodology. The difference between these numbers is why we're doing better now. The difference between these numbers is why we have more money in the pension fund and why we are now paying 37% of state subsidies, and we used to pay up to 48% of state subsidies. If it continues at this rate by the end of the year, it will be 35%. We've never had such a good result, because they're employees and nothing else. As for the social protection system, the assessment of both the World Bank and all relevant institutions dealing with social protection is that our system is well targeted, they think it refers often to those, that it is sometimes too wide. It's something they often put on our burden and something we have to work with. I'll be forever glad. I'll be really happy when we enter the law into the National Assembly. Otherwise, you know, the draft was done, it was supposed to start a public debate. The election's here. By law, when the new government comes, you have to start all over again and we'll come out very soon with a concrete proposal. I'm very glad if we all commit ourselves here if we're not going to deal with politics when it comes to the law, that we're not going to come and say – well, now we're going to increase everyone's compensation, it's the only time, how do you think you're fighting poverty if you don't increase social assistance, how do you think you're fighting the white plague if you don't raise your compensation, what do you mean if you don't give this or that giving? Our goal and the Financial Support Act for families with children and the Social Protection Act, which regulates other matters in the field of social protection, will certainly be to better hit the one who really needs help, but to get to the one who really needs help. Then, when we talk about labour activation, that those who are able to work, who receive financial social assistance, should work, don't go after the political reflex and say - no, no, no, no, it's slavery, that's bad, but say - those who are working and receive financial social assistance, help is less needed than those who are not able to work, and they should receive social assistance. Then say it, so be so brave and remain consistent with what you're saying now, that we better throw social protection at someone who really needs help, but let's not do politics at that point, but just as it is right now, let's say -- help is more needed, someone less needed. The one who can work, she's less needed than the one who can't work, but say it then. I look forward to this public debate and I look forward to this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4847	Would you like a comment? Come in. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: "Get him a job, don't humiliate him." What did you say, MPs? (Tatjana Macura, from the place: I say get him a job, don't humiliate him.) MPs, please don't throw away, I won't punish you. Just to let you know Tito's dead. So don't throw things like that away. Marko Djurisic has a word, a comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4848	Thank you. I look forward to this debate because I think we need to make some solutions that will also change these bad trends in Serbia, both for the fight against poverty and for the population policy and for the measures that will keep Serbian citizens in Serbia. I hope we have those laws finally on the agenda. We have one proposal, we can wait, but I'm not optimistic, seeing as the minister doesn't see the difference between social assistance and work. I don't think we can, social aid as a help, as a category can be conditioned by nothing. Or the state gives you help, it can't make you work, I'm just talking about that difference. So let's see how we target those socially endangered, and how we help the unemployed and those who can't get to work on the labour market. But come on. I only want one thing. I want to commend the government for its progress on the Duing Business List. I want to commend it, it's a fake. But I want us to understand that we have another problem in the state of Serbia. We have a problem with companies that want to do business in Serbia, come and do it. I'll tell you the data in this table. Since 2008, when there was a crisis and there was a 3.1% drop in Serbia's GDP, from 2008 to 2011, an average of 2.25 billion foreign direct investment is here. From 2012 to 2015, same for four years, 1.27 billion a year. Why some came by 2011 and invested in Serbia, although we were poorly placed on that list is the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4849	Thank you. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Because you privatized NIS, because you privatized everything else. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4850	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions and one two, three findings. The first question, Prime Minister, is – when will our railways be able to compete with the railways of Europe, because foreign investors are seeking the transport of goods and their products by rail? There is a technical possibility in Serbia and there are a lot of Rural stations that we can transport all that stuff, because 30, 40 years ago maybe Serbia was a transit state for rail traffic. The second question is for the Minister of Education. The dual education starts next year, but we have to prepare to inform all those who want to enroll some interests for the reasons we have to provide, and where they're going to go to practice, who are the factory entities that are going to receive these guys and girls to learn the work they're studying for? That way, I'm sure, when dual education comes to life, we'll cut the number of unemployed, because then both these guys and the girls will, when they finish school, be the owners of their businesses, because they'll know they're doing the work they've been trained for. Also, a question for the Prime Minister – who gives back wind to Albanians that Albanians do not respect the Brussels Agreement and keep sending some messages to Serbs and threaten us directly? Question for Minister Loncar – when will the Fund accept your proposals that you have made for the employment of doctors and medical workers to homes of health and hospitals, given that several homes of health and hospitals respect the number of employees based on the number of residents? I mean, Prime Minister, how do you reduce poverty? Well, I've been waiting two months for you to set up a rock foundation tomorrow. Every third day you set up a cornerstone, you open factories. What cornerstone? The Germans come from tomorrow to Serbia to buy the products of the Aunde factory, and this Aunde factory has its own products in five countries. It's in Italy. Well, why didn't they go to Italy and make contracts there and buy seats from the Aunda factory, but they just chose Serbia? Because there is political stability in Serbia, economic security. When the Germans chose Serbia, then I am sure it is one major economic indicator in the coming period. We should not be ashamed to say that Serbia is the most popular country for foreign investors. When it comes to Nis, I want to congratulate you all for what you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4851	Thanks, time. You will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4852	I thank Mr. Markovic. I will try to answer everything, to leave others, at least a few other opposition parliamentary groups to ask questions. First of all, I want to tell you MPs who always want to hear me say one thing. They just said we had more investment on average. We did. And you know what they involved? When "Delta" is sold to Deleza for a billion and three hundred million, it counts to you that you are a billion and three hundred. Can you think of that unfortunate year that we actually had, and the Cypriot tax? So I just want to tell you how numbers, if you don't do that, are sometimes misleading. That's what you're getting into and selling NIS, because it's all sold out, from cements in 2001, 2002 and 2003, to all the networks of our telephony, to NIS, to absolutely everything, and we've been left behind and let's get you to Wolfie to sell Resavitica to someone. Just to tell Palm, I hope he doesn't mind me saying my friend Palma - the rest of you, Wolfie, just get a rope to hang yourself after the Diaries and nothing else to do. Now, that's what I learned from him, and that's unfortunately not far from the truth, either. Now, it's far from true today, because we've managed to make a more normal and healthy state, to get almost two billion in reduced investment in Europe, without any major privatisation. I don't want to brag about the inflow of foreign investment, and I wouldn't brag about it if we were able to privatise "Telecom", as some did, but I would say – leave it aside, count it separately, although I think I made a mistake not doing it. I'm not going to tell you-- along with the airport, we have so much and so much. No, the "ap front" coming to the airport, I'm going to take that apart to say -- that's what we've earned so much, even though it's worth 50 million, today we've got 354 million with, I don't know, "consens fi". If we go on that model, it'll be 600 and 700. I'll put it aside, foreign direct investors coming into Greenfield or Brownfield Investment we have this much, which is a lot more than anyone else in the region. It is true, Dragan, that every other day, on the third day, we go to open factories or sign contracts, and slowly it develops, and we will be less and less of a problem to have, but still a lot of problems. Just please, I do that job from early morning to late night, every day. I know every number. I know exactly why it's better and why my optimism is greater today. The third subject you've launched is pessimism, and I'd say some black hunches, and the economy doesn't. We'll do it slowly, but surely we'll deal with it slowly, but I'm sure things are going better on stable feet. Our Railway will not soon be at European rail level. You've already got some stocks on your way today for those who don't know. I'm asking people to get on Stadler's trains, go from Novi Sad to Belgrade. It is still an hour and a half, it may be a shorter car, but go, you will enjoy the most beautiful trains in this part of Europe. Go to Belgrade – Vršac, you will arrive faster than you arrive by car. Go, for the first time you will cross Belgrade – Vršac faster by train than you will by car. Is that ideal or is that all? It's not. Now we have to work on Corridor 10, Belgrade – Nis, first of all what you are most interested in, and that is most important for us and for freight traffic and for passenger traffic. We have to work on the track for Montenegro. We'll sign with the Chinese. The argument is whether it is 344 or 327 or 313m euros is the share of Belgrade – Stara Pazova, since Stara Pazova – Novi Sad is working with the Russians, etc., where we have spent more money for various reasons. So, I want to tell you, things are slowly changing here, but they're changing, and, as a god, please, you go, if I can't ask people, if I can't ask the people, go see what it looks like to ride on the Stadler train from Belgrade to Novi Sad and vice versa, you'll be surprised yourself. You'll see we have something we didn't have. It's just that it's hard for people to admit it. Thank you for talking about it. What I see, dual education, we work with companies for the first time, domestic and foreign. In Vlasotinc, I was proud, two German companies and three Serbian companies agreed to invest in children who are masters, who have their own workshop, mechanics. Ambrojo told me, the secretary of state in Switzerland, I have a son who is a doctor of science, but I also have two sons who are craftsmen. They've come out of dual education, earning more than a doctor of science. It's the market. It's Switzerland. The market requires more auto mechanics, more plumbers than that science doctor. What do you want? It's the market. What Maya would say, Tito died, we need to get on the market, and we need to understand that. We're slowly pushing that. We won't be successful in dual education in 10 years, but every company, every factory that enters that process, every school that enters it is a major shift forward. This is still for us some kind of pilot project, but it's a big shift ahead and people finally understand that. What's the biggest problem, I congratulate you on laying the cornerstone and tomorrow I'll do it in Jagodina. As far as Albanians are concerned, the situation is complicated. I had a good conversation with Federico Mogerini. We will continue the talks, try to implement what we have agreed, although there are many problems. You have to understand that our economic progress depends, among other things, on the image we send to the world, which doesn't always have to be the same or the same as we want it to be. That is why it is necessary sometimes to make compromise and difficult decisions, but all of this has its limits. That's why, I believe, about the budget, before or after the budget, we're going to open a debate on this matter in the National Assembly. I opened up in the government today, because some things, now I tell you openly, I don't understand. I'm always in position, I can't even tell the enemy, I can't even tell the opponent, the other side in the negotiations understand. I don't understand why they did this around Blink. I try all the time to understand why they did it and I can't figure it out. There must be something one of you can see, and we can't see. We had a long discussion today... I know you see, I never doubted. Those who can easily see everything and easily recognize everything, the least they can see, and the forest tree they can't see. Anyway, we'll be ready to hear and see. Thank you again and congratulations on another factory. I want a lot of success, and I want more work for the Jagodins. I know there are, I think, five or six thousand unemployed people in Jagodina and we have to work together to solve this problem in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4853	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4854	Mr. Markovic, I can inform you, yesterday we had talks with the IMF and with the World Bank, we presented the problem. We have come to understand the situation that is happening, not only in Serbia, but throughout Europe, the migration of doctors and medical staff. What we agreed, which was the plan, is that there are as many quotas as there can be doctors, but I think in the future we're going to go to another, that we're going to receive more, absolutely more doctors and hire them. For what reason? Because we don't have any specialists at the Bureau and when someone leaves for any reason to retire, or abroad, or in private practice, or goes to the pharmaceutical industry, we can't hire someone else at that point, because they're not there. Simply a specialist, especially some specialists we all know, anesthesiologist, radiologist, pediatrician, neurologist, and in order to have one specialist, it takes a minimum of four, five or six years to go through the basic specialization without talking about ending the subspecialization and another experience that needs to be gained. So that we don't get into this situation, because we have a lot of specialists who are over 55 years old, inevitably people are going to retire, and this deadline that we need, we're going to get doctors, we're going to recognize them, they're going to get paid, but what we have to clear up with is that in one, let's say, in the yard, we have administration, nonmedical workers and health homes and hospitals doing the same job, absolutely the same job. We don't think we have the need for this, that one administration is enough to do all this work, and we're going to receive health care professionals out of those quotas, so I think it's going to be resolved and recognised very quickly, that they're going to get paid and give specializations and make up for what they haven't been given for years of specialization, which people haven't been employed. I stress, we will do this transparently, through competitions and through everything the law provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4855	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4856	Mr. President Vukic, I would like to congratulate you and thank you on behalf of all local self-government. Your tour of Nis and several municipalities and cities in that part of Serbia will surely make your budget plan easier for the next 2017. So far, you've been getting information from the second, third hands, and while you were in Nis, you've seen, personally, what municipalities look like, how money is being raised in cities and municipalities and what is the original income. Why are there certain problems in certain municipalities? Because it's waiting for the budget to be filled from the original revenues. Local self-government has to create conditions and make money, something that's not called original income, create conditions to build buildings, make buildings, and local self-government comes up with money from building buildings, business-room space per square, and it's not very small money that local self-government can come up with that kind of money. What's most important is that you've seen a normal man live, you've talked to ordinary people. I know that. It's hard for me to talk to only 80,000 Jagodina residents, and I can understand how you with seven million inhabitants understand all the populations and all the problems that citizens in Serbia have. I'm sure local self-government will be easier when they send you a request to look for something, and you already know if it can be realized and what priorities are. Today is the most important thing for every family and for the budget of the state of the city, what are the priorities. Priorities are to invest money in something that pays you back part of the money, not to invest money in something that individuals benefit from and the state and local self-government do not benefit from the funds invested. I want to tell you that the interest of foreign investors has not dropped to come to Serbia and that we can reduce poverty when we hire the unemployed. I don't agree with individuals who say that the poor are all those who speak, today is that percentage, I'm sure, much smaller. Okay for the sick, old and powerless, but you have 70% of the number of poor citizens who can work and make money. Now that's some future where both the government and the cities in Serbia should provide jobs and those people live off their work. So far, there may have been only promises in certain cities and municipalities, but I follow what you do. Wherever you went to the poor community, you said, "Here you will be..." .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4857	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4858	I'll try very briefly with gratitude for certain ideas. Otherwise, those who say that social aid should be strictly separated from work, forget to say that some of the world's most progressive countries have linked it. Among other things, I also think of the government of David Cameron who suggested it, and of many others because it's pointless that if someone can earn their money, that you give him welfare so that he doesn't actually work. We have no problem running away from it, I apologize for telling Serbs and Serbian citizens the truth. I'm so sorry that someone else likes to talk about how money has and how it's going to fall out of the sky. Money can only be obtained when we earn it, and that is why I am grateful to people in Serbia, because that is why we can think about better and something different in the future, precisely because they believed it and because they knew it was a serious and responsible programme. You're right, Mr. Markovic. We have more companies and factories in what we call a beep line, so in that line that comes to Serbia, than we've ever had. That's why we're going to open factories from day to day, somewhere to sign contracts. We'll have new conferences in Hamburg. From there I expect, as I said, very good news for Nischi, I hope for some other municipalities. I believe we'll bring in another factory in Jagodin and reduce that number of unemployed people. There's been a lot of problems in Jagodina, as you know. From brewery to today, cables and everything else, and it's not easy to get rid of. Because, you know, experts didn't sell it because it wasn't cementers and it wasn't the oil industry and there wasn't much money to take at one point, but it was supposed to worry in a different way. Now, there was never a solution to that, so they sent their people to be consultants in certain brewers. Today, we have no idea here, so these brewers took millions of dinars on themselves and on their spouses, and they didn't get very excited about it. But it would be today to give us sermons and give us lectures and explain to us how, what and how it should work. So, about the income, and I'll tell you. We left Nis, and now they call from the city of Nis every day – where the money is for facades. But they're not asking for money for facades, as we're setting them up in Belgrade right now. You've seen almost all of Karadjordev in 19 objects, I'd say, the ugliest, most beautiful objects, but with the downed, failed facades that will shine in full glory and we'll do everything decoratively and in light. It's literally going to be a beautiful Belgrade. So is Novi Sad, and Nis, and so are many other places where we've been. We'll give for the Cup and for many other places. But the problem is they're asking us for that money because they're having trouble with cash-flo. I said deliver the first project, here's your money. That's all I ask of the local self-government representatives. Don't give us any money and we'll run out of it in a jar. Give me the project, we'll monitor to see if it's done, you'll get the money. And that's what the Serbian government is going to look for. That's why we have to be strict, so we have to insist on it because without it, I'm afraid we're just going to get into even bigger problems. Thank you again for your attention and your support for what we're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4859	Thank you. Dragan Markovic wanted to comment only.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4860	A little while ago, I didn't say that at the Nis Power Industries factory, until this government was built, where production plants were, there was a bar opening, Prime Minister, and they were opening cafes by the plants where the workers were employed. I look forward to, wherever a factory is concerned, I was especially looking forward to the fact that in the factories it was stopped to open cafes, but new jobs, as you opened at the Nis Power Industries Factory, the former factory, and there will now be several hundred workers employed. That's how household work is done, and I never and my party, Unique Serbia, will not support you, nor will it support you if you look like some who used to be, to boast of the surplus. You listed several factories that were sold, you did not say that Bogoljub Karic was kidnapped by "Mobtel" and that a billion and three hundred million euros went to pay and for something else, not to new factories, to new facilities, to new investments like this government and you at the head of this government. I want... . You, who throws all the time, you've ruined all the factories where you've been a bankruptcy manager. And you boasted about how you pulled out of the factory's bankruptcy by selling machines and real estate in those factories. So when you get out, you're out of bankruptcy, and you're supposed to say, "Here we are, out of bankruptcy by increasing production, by hiring more workers." Well, it's not your grandfather's fault that you've been selling factories and businesses and you're just throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4861	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4862	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4863	Wait for Ambassador Milic to pass this performance, this is interesting. I apologize to Ambassador Markovic, I hope it was all right. (Dear Markovic, from town: We are not the same category. ) Here you are, the word has a People's MP Nenad Milic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4864	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, it is difficult to speak in such a dreary. Of course, economic issues are the most important issues for both the government and the citizens of this country. It depends on how successful the government is in economic matters, depending on how good or how bad people live, but I think there is something that is fundamental to economic measures, which is politics. This country was not destroyed by bad economic measures, it was not destroyed by bad tax policies, tax rates, but destroyed by bad policies. We're at 75% of the 1989 GDP today. All of us together, all of us. I'm not particularly competent in economic matters, so I don't want to go into the details, but it's one terrible piece of information. It's not the cause of bad economics, it's the cause of bad politics. The president of our parliamentary group was two and a half months ago, when the elected government asked about the most important political issues, what do you think. Unfortunately, only two and a half months after that in a political sense, it seems to me that two years have passed, so many things have accelerated. These topics that were current today are more current, without wanting to bring any unrest, I think we're back at some state turning point. It seems to me that Serbia is in a position again to think carefully and decide which way it wants to go. Here, I'll try briefly, since time is running out, let me tell you what. First of all, I mean a relationship to Kosovo. We talked about it a lot. The only objection and not to you, but to your associates is what we just said, the picture we're sending to the world and the dictionary they're talking to, I think it's real, but you're the Prime Minister, and you're responsible for that, too. What's more important is the relationship to Russia. The chapters are not open because of Serbia's failure to agree on Serbia's foreign and security policy with EU policy. That's what we've taken responsibility for. The country's foreign minister said -- we will not impose sanctions and dots. If that's the picture we're sending to the world, and I'm asking you -- is that your attitude, is that a picture of this government, what is our alternative? After that, we will not enter the EU if we are being blackmailed for Kosovo, even if we are being blackmailed for Russia. What is the policy of this country? I'll continue in the next three minutes, no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4865	You could have been ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4866	Yeah, ten seconds, but I think the Prime Minister understood what I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4867	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4868	I understand you perfectly, and that is why we will be discussing this in the next Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the government's initiative, because these are serious issues. For one thing you're absolutely right, that without a successful policy there is no successful economy. Only a successful policy can lead you to a good, stable and more advanced economy. Because we have had a more successful policy in the past two years, and today we have a more stable and better economic situation. That's why we're not in front of bankruptcy today like we were. You're right that difficult challenges are ahead of us. For one thing, you're neither technical nor essential, but that's not an essential question. I would be unfair if I said, to hold onto that sentence, which is that the chapters are not open because we are not the conditions of Chapter 31, which is to comply with EU recommendations, decisions and solutions. That's not the reason. The reason the chapters were not opened in October, we do not know whether they will be by the end of the year, is dialogue with Pristina. So that no one has any illusions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that some other reason - is not. I'm telling you straight what it is. So, the reason is the implementation of the agreement with Pristina. On our part, there is one fundamental problem, which I would like to hear about both your attitude and your reporting in this other, and the attitude of the LDP as we will hear afterwards and the position of the DSS and, as we have heard, the DSS, and the SDS, etc. So, I just want you to tell me -- and what is it that you think is best for Serbia to do, because I think we do the best for Serbia? I think we're making the most of it for Serbia. I'll tell you why. Because we see that we do not heroise ourselves, that we do not make statements made by the Pristina side, but as you know, we are here in a very difficult position, 22 of 27 or 23 of the 28 EU countries, depending on whether you count Britain or not, have recognised Kosovo's independence. Those in those conversations, however neutral they say they are, are known in which direction things are going. I ask – and what is our alternative? On the one hand, we are pressed against those who say leave the way, which is very irresponsible. Serbia is on the European path and will remain on the European path. (Bosko Obradovic throws. There are many of you irresponsible. You're not the only one who isn't responsible. Don't take... (Bosko Obradović, from town:... Fifty percent of the people. That's most of the people. ( ) Since they are getting something about most people, as far as most people are concerned, we have asked the people and the people are most dramatically different from what you think they are saying. Messengers of the Dwrey are getting it. E, now, do not shout and throw, because the strength of your arguments is not measured by the power of the decibel you produce, but by the power of knowledge, education and something to learn. To you, Mr. Milic, let me answer, since you asked a serious question in a serious way and I will answer you seriously. Yeah, I'm worried. If there's something I've been worried about for weeks and months, that's all I care about. Things are, it's true, and you're right, it's complicated, it's not easier. On the contrary, over time they are more complicated. It's not the foreign minister's fault, it's my fault, to be honest. I said that while I am Prime Minister Serbia will be on the European path and Serbia will do everything that can be firmly on the European path for itself, not because of 27 or 28 other countries, but because we want to belong to this type of society, because we want to change ourselves. I added, Mr. Milic, that while I'm Prime Minister, we will not impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, which does not mean that some other government will not make a different decision. I don't think it would be fair to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation in this situation and at times like this. I don't think we as a country have any reason to, we don't have any interest in doing that. To be honest, it wouldn't be fair to a friendly Russian people, because I don't know if they've done us any great harm. I don't know how or why we could justify it. On the one hand, it's not a balancing position. We are not going into the Euro-Asian alliance, we are going to the EU. Our policy on this matter is clear. On the other hand, we pray to our European partners and ask everyone else to understand our relationship with both the Russian Federation and the Russian people, these are our traditional friends, and so far we have succeeded. Will we succeed in the future? Suddenly, no problem, there will be someone who will define it better than this government and I have no problem with it. We've done it so far, and I think it's very important. You laughing so rudely, throwing yourself away and thinking that at some point you're interrupting someone in any way... [[Saša Radulovic applauds.]] (Saša Radulovic, from the place: It is easy to be heroic when the microphone is turned off. A hero just like that, shut down everyone else. Don't yell. Indecentness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4869	Sit down, MP. Actually, you don't have to. You can run and play, just a little quieter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4870	... Insolence is not a problem, which is your characteristic. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Why don't you go somewhere on a duel? ) Just to tell you that you would know what kind of hero it is, it is a man who now applauds in a strange way, and I am not Slavica Djukić Dejanović. With you at the duel, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic needs to go out. It's the only solution for you, to tell you the truth. The theme isn't demographics, believe me. I want to tell other opposition colleagues that this man is deliberately stalling and deliberately making this so that, say, radicals couldn't get the right to say and some others are doing it on purpose all the time. Let me tell you my dear friends, you'll find it interesting to know some more details, except for everything you know about the different marifettes, the robberies they've conducted from BIP to "California". There's one other thing. Do you know what he did to his drivers, who in six months changed five? Do you know how he talked to them? He spoke to them the following way – by telling him "good afternoon", he turned on the phone and told his secretary – "show this good day next to me". Now you fellow citizens think about who we're dealing with and what this is all about. What I've told you every driver of his will confirm. I apologize to Mr. Milic for the rude conduct of certain MPs, but what to do, I suppose that education is achieved in elementary school, at home, some of those classes skipped. So, Mr. Milic, I think we're gonna have to talk about this, if you have a better suggestion, please tell me. I can't wait to hear that because any better suggestion than any policy we've ever made, we'd accept it. All I ask is that we do not give up the interests that we have already achieved, which we have been able to make and from which the citizens of Serbia earn money and from which we pay both salaries in the public sector and pensions. Please have that in mind, thank you for, I would say, asking questions in good faith and wanting to do something together and together that would be good and useful for our country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4871	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4872	As it can be, but in good faith. I believe that everyone here is in good faith, even those who are wrong, in my opinion, so, even your former ministers with whom you are now fighting as something, from my point of view, you are here for me a group of the same. But I think that there are too many serious topics to deal with and make a circus out of parliament in this way, there is really no need. I thank you, and you've been very serious, but I think it's too short a time to discuss these topics in these three minutes. But, yes, you're in the exposé, when you answered our questions about Kosovo, said the deal and the conversation with Kosovo is the only time Serbia can have, that everything else is stupid. I couldn't agree more. We have no other choice, but with the intervention of the European Union, we agree with Kosovo, no matter what it says and what it says in the frameworks, but either today, five years or ten, we will have to agree, because people live there. There is no other choice and no other solution regarding Kosovo. As far as international relations are concerned, the situation is much more complicated. Serbia is strategic, and you said that then, defined for the European Union. Therefore, it is a strategy, when something is a strategy, it is primarily a goal. I'm sorry if I called Mr. Dacic, but I didn't see your statement. I saw Mr. Dacic's statement. I'm not even a little excited that you're telling me right now, because I think if something is Serbia's strategic goal, it's not Serbia's fault, of course, but those two goals are opposed. It happened from the end of August to today. Our desire to be good with the European Union and Russia is no longer real. It's international relations, it has nothing to do with Serbia. That, I admit, is Russia's legitimate desire to be a world power again. She's trying to get back on the world stage, it's all great, I just don't see Serbia on that side. I don't think that's good for Serbia and that we need to define ourselves. If we had been strategic by now, that this Assembly, your government, had never spoken about Serbia's political neutrality before, we had talked about military though, but political never. We are politically very clearly focused on all the documents, in all the campaigns, in all the EU accession statements. What are we gonna do when there's a conflict of those two interests? All right, of course it's the country's interest to trade with Russia, even though the Russians have imposed sanctions on us in the 1990s. I don't like it -- love, I don't know what, hate in politics. These relations in politics are not close to me, I think it's about interests. Of course, it's not our interest to impose sanctions on Russia, but it's a much bigger damage that's going to happen in this country if we don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4873	Thank you, you have more commentary after. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go. Wait a minute, has anyone answered to talk to Nenad Milic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4874	I didn't want to answer now, to be at least another MP, so in response to him, I'll answer to you, Mr. Milic, to what else you were saying, if that doesn't bother you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4875	To those who laugh, I refer them to the Rules of Procedure. I'm just extending time because one of the parliamentary groups has been distracting MPs all along in this process, so I won't finish at 1900 hours, so the DSS has a chance to ask a question. Talk to the parliamentary group that made this question a show of Ben Hill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4876	I think we're having a serious conversation today. (Bosko Obradović, from the site: Give another hour. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4877	We're not at the market. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: So you are afraid. I have infinite understanding for you. So, any market, any market, can also be re-soldish, can also be chatty. Let's start over, I'll give you back a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4878	I think that today we have very meaningful questions and broad answers and I think that this atmosphere is very constructive and that we should continue in this tone to talk further. I believe in the prime minister's work habits and work ethics and I think we could continue to hear both MPs and other parliamentary groups. My question today will be addressed to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, as regards what the government and it is headed by it and its parliamentary majority, which they have done in the past four years, and in the field of sovereignty and integrity of the Serbian state. Two weeks ago, the director of the Kosovo and Metohija Office, Marko Djuric, went to a press conference and said it is more unacceptable for Serbia to give in to permanent ultimatums. One ultimatum was to kidnap the entire "Telecoma Serbia" property in Kosovo, and the other ultimatum was to overdo "Trepce" and that in case it happened, it would no longer be there. The next day you said that Serbia is committed to dialogue and will continue to deepen dialogue with Pristina, so the other day we were uneasyly surprised by the delivery of the Western Balkans Fund, which we discussed yesterday in parliament, which were signed by five countries of our neighbouring and Kosovo. The document, according to the explanation, is in the form of an international contract signed by sovereign countries. After the SAA, Eulexa, a catastra, traffic permits, ID cards, integrated borders, the Brussels Agreement, a shameful and treasonous one, which abolished all the institutions in KIM, which disbanded Serb municipalities in the north of KIM, formed according to Albanian laws, abolished our judicial institutions, integrated police into Kosovo police, decreed that Kosovo's legislation, is there an end to this further humiliation and withdrawal? This is the first document to come to the Republic Parliament to be directly signed by both the states of Serbia and so on. Kosovo in the form of an international contract. Does Mr. Prime Minister have the end of this humiliation of Serbia's condescending relationship, and how long will Serbia give in and what benefit does Serbia have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4879	Time, thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4880	Of course, the last two speakers have talked about it from different angles, and this seems to me to be the best way to talk about the seriousness and responsibility of the position in which the Serbian government is located. As for the Western Balkans Fund, which you have talked about so much, an agreement with all stars and fus notes has been signed. Wait, you're talking about the Western Balkans Fund, you're talking to me, who you know I know at least knew something that happened in this country that remembers well. Well, you signed CEFT, which is a ten times more significant deal. Not ten, thousands of times a significant deal from the Fund for the Western Balkans, CEFT is signed with Kosovo. I criticized it in Parliament and now let me tell you, we use what you did with CEFT to be the strongest in CEFT. Today, if I were you, I'd sign that agreement. You're criticizing something that's 100 times smaller than CEFT and something that's done with stars and footnotes, in accordance with all the rules we've made ourselves. What are you talking about? Well, what kind of hypocrisy is that? It's kind of the worst political hypocrisy. Here, it's not hard for me to tell you, I support what you signed for CEFT. You want me to tell you why? Because, in Pristina, as we say, or as Nenad Milic says in Kosovo, we place 700m euros in our goods and do not talk about Serbs in the north, but I am talking south of Ibra. That's what a lot of factories make of. I've been to Leskovac recently. What's the name of the cremation and construction company? I don't think I was wrong, "Youth." He hires a new man. Where's he exporting? Export to Albania and Pristina. I ask him, what do we have to do for you, as a state? He says, nothing but continue to run such a policy, I will now take even more markets in Albania and make even more money and employ more Serbs in Leskovac. The same was said to me by Alexic, when I was in Vranje, in "Alpha Plame", "Metal Feran Graduation", they also told me the same thing. I am the one who supports the export of our products everywhere, I am the one who supports trade and I will fight for free flow of people, goods and services. I'll tell you this, and we're telling you, because you're right, we need free flow of people, goods and services. Well, you were saying that we recognized independent Kosovo. Well, how can you say that, and you signed CEFT years ago, which is a 100 times more important agreement than the Western Balkans Fund. With Kosovo. No, it's with the UNMIK administration. It's not a neck, it's a neck, and we signed it with a star and a footnote like the Serbian Parliament said it should be signed. And, it still writes to you, without prejudge of the final solution, in accordance with the UN resolution. Now, that's a big difference not my interpretation, but take it and read what it says, take it and read what it says. Is it with that, yet to inform me – where my brother, meanwhile, bought a new pub? Since last time you went out with me asking where and what. Just to tell you he's not, he'll never buy, not that, not anything else. It's just that much to tell you, and I'm going to tell you every time, because that's not the way to talk. We need to talk seriously here. If you want to talk seriously and see what our policy is and what we do, and not talk about it, hey, you are traitors, hey, you are very great patriots. I won't let you be more patriotic than anyone in this room. Like, I'm not going to say that we're more of a patriot, because I think we're responsible and serious, and I'm not going to let you say that you love Kosovo more than I do. I know every Serbian village in Kosovo, and I have stayed in every Serbian village. In every Serbian village and I won't allow anyone more than I love him. And, for the Serbs in KIM, I fight every day, in every conversation, in every possible way and the entire Serbian government, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't have good relations with Albanians. Because we have to live beside them. We have to live beside them, the one who doesn't understand it, will eat it time, political time. I don't mean anything by it. We have to make money. Why was I talking about Nis? In Nis, as our people would say, if all the paths were as they once were, all the paths of the water to Rome would now be – all the paths of the water to Nis. Literally. I think that's it, I didn't lie to our people in Nis. When through Nis, just listen to me, when Nis passes through the eastern leg of Corridor 10, towards Bulgaria. You're right, he's been through in your time, except it's been a bit of a turkey and a very bad caldrum and a bad path, and now a full profile of the highway will pass, everything you've talked about and everything you've never met. But don't worry, someone came for you to fill it all out. We'll also have a highway south of Corridor 10. We'll have a southeast to Pristina, to Drac, and that's all very, very important to us. Whoever doesn't see it, I don't know how I'd do it or what I want to do, or can't tell you anything bad, I think it's a policy that's inappropriate and that's already swallowed up by time. As for the protection of our national interests. The protection of our national interests is, firstly, to preserve security for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. The second is a good and better economy for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Do we have a problem? We do. Is the shade going better? It's going better for the shade. The third thing that is important to us is that for us, for the good part of the world it will not, but for us it has been and will always be Serbia. Fourthly, what is also very important is that we try to build good relations with Albanians and have good trade, good economic relations, and why not political relations if we can. We're not doing well, with Albania going relatively well, with Pristina not going well, because they have their own internal reasons. I'd like it to go better and I'd brag here that it's going to go better because it would bring us more money, because they'd be going through more central Serbia than they are going through today, and today we're looking for special confirmations that we're giving them, a million troubles, and we sometimes make unnecessary ones, just fearing this kind of criticism in parliament and elsewhere. I don't want to talk about them, who like to seal their seal, and I don't know what they're up to, on the sidewalk, they're going to print it a little bit on the roads and on the highways, and they're going to stop the flow of people's capital, goods and services, and I'm going to fight for it. I think it's a good policy for Serbs in Kosovo, because Serbs in Kosovo want to live well with neighbours of Albanians, especially in central Kosovo where they are unprotected. It is not Mr. Lapcevic, an independent Kosovo declared and supported by the great Western forces neither yesterday nor the day before, but at a time when you led the Serbian government. Your reaction was then, we'll jump one day to see if we have our fellow citizens' non-Serbs, which I'll never let happen in Serbia, while I'm the Prime Minister and I'm asking myself anything. What about the Serbs in Kosovo? What's been done for them? Well, nothing. That was all the result. That was the whole policy. I think we're different in that, and I think this is a much better result, and this is the result of a serious and responsible approach that we're going to have in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4881	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4882	I thank you, President. Since I signed this document on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Prague last year, i.e. the establishment of a Fund for the Western Balkans, i.e. The establishment of the Western Balkan Fund Statute, and listened to indeed the great political disappointment of the deceptions that have been present all day in this House by different parliamentary groups and political groups towards the citizens of Serbia in terms of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done yesterday, by signing this Statute of the Western Balkans Fund, then I just have to ask all of course representatives and colleagues from different political groups to deal with what is worst in both politics and in life, which is interpretation of interpretation, but if there are documents then it would be good for you to read them. If you were to read the documents and the original, original documents then you would see not only that there is footnote and the marking we have agreed long before, but that it exists in Article three and an interpretative statement that I have personally delivered and that I will make for the work of the citizens of Serbia, which has become an integral part of this document. Just by the fact that the other countries that signed this document have accepted our interpretative statement as an integral part of this document, even in some way, if you will, and have relativated their relationship and recognition in that sense of Kosovo as an independent state. Therefore, the text of an interpretative statement reads: "Because KIM territory is part of the Republic of Serbia and based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 is under international administration, signing and expressing consent to the commitment of the Republic of Serbia and/or the Government of Kosovo, with a star, to the Western Balkan Fund's founding agreement cannot be interpreted as recognising Kosovo's independence, with a star, nor is it forming a contractual relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, with a star, within the meaning of the rules of the Vienna Convention under contract law, which regulates matter as being concluded by the execution of international contracts. The completion and enforcement of the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans does not in any way prejudge the issue of Kosovo's status, with the star, as well as the authority and authority of the UN and KFOR Special Representative, in accordance with Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo. No action ruled by Kosovo, with a star, or a temporary institution of self-government in Kosovo, with a star, an takeover in the conclusion and implementation of this agreement can be considered valid if it exceeds the framework of the powers of the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo or a breach of powers and duties reserved for the UN Special Representative, the UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo." It's a text.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4883	Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4884	I agree, Mr. Prime Minister, that we speak seriously and with arguments, so I expect it from you. Yes, a CEFTA agreement has been signed in our time. KIM's signer, UNMIK, as a civilian administrator of the KIM administration, is not a representative of Kosovo, nor is the foreign minister of the so-called foreign affairs. Kosovo. Kosovo with a star, we made an interpretative statement that we do not interpret that Kosovo is independent. Did they accept it? Does the EU accept that interpretative statement? (Jadranka Joksimovic, from town: Yes. Signed? Well, then they'd write, then here in the text they'd put it on to accept it. They said, okay, you make that statement, but that's your thing. It's hypocritical, Mr. Prime Minister, to speak of you doing everything on KIM as if others weren't doing everything and being more patriot than anyone else. We're not your patriots either, and we were doing everything we could. But what has happened since 2008 is the destruction of the institutions of the state of Serbia in KIM, the disbanding of Serb municipalities, the disbanding of judicial authorities, police have been integrated into Kosovo police, Kosovo's constitution and its legal standards for our institutions have been adopted. Is there better evidence that Serbia has less and less on KIM? Is there better evidence? I know the situation isn't easy, but I'm sorry, to transfer to others that they were to blame for something that happened at the time, and that's to declare KIM, independence and transfer to us what we did, so, as far as I remember, you were involved in what we were doing back then. And you supported the Declaration in the Serbian Parliament. Why are you running away from it now? Why do you wash your hands of it? I'm just saying that the act that came here was an international agreement. Why wasn't there in this act, if BiH was, why wasn't the Republic of Serbia, for example?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4885	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4886	Since this is my last address today, I want to thank you first for asking questions, as far as I can see, five opposition parliamentary groups were asking. A few things. You were just saying the opposite of what I was saying. I didn't say I was a bigger patriot, I said you weren't bigger and I wouldn't let anyone else have more patriotism than us and nothing more. On the contrary, I have pleaded that we are responsible and serious and that we are making responsible and serious solutions. I'd like you to leave now and explain to the 5,800 municipal workers we pay for, that they don't exist, and that they're fiction and that they're made up. Marko Atlagic, from the scene: He told me that I did not exist. ) Yes, and to you, Mr. Atlagic, you are also a non-existent professor, since you teach in Kosovo Mitrovica, and we pay you a salary, but what will you do? It is true, I will try to be quite serious and not play political games, it is true that Serbia is not as much as we would like on that part of our territory, it is not. There are many reasons, from the Prizren League to today. I'd have more to say to you than you would to me. We'd both have a lot to say to others before us and to others long before us. But first of all, don't forget that something can't be mantra or political or any other way, because it's a lot of hypocrisy and it's the easiest thing for me to say today – Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, I don't know what all these Albanians have to do to get rid of them, get rid of them. That's bullshit. I just think that when you show me which one of us is going to go live in Glogovac or Stimlje or Dry River, then we'll be able to talk about something more serious. Until then, we can talk about the survival of Serbs in Serbian communities. Don't let me remind you that some of them received votes in Prekaz and Unic and had more votes than in many other central Serbia seats, which was all unrealistic and what was unserious. So it's our job to help our people. I, right to tell you, was also in Glogovec, I was also in Orahovec, Malishevo and Štimlje and Suvoj River and in Zrzz between Prizren and Djakovica, unlike 99.999% of Serbs. But I have to tell you something, I wouldn't live there, and I know you and no one else in this room would, and it doesn't occur to us to live there. We've chosen better places to live today. Let's talk about it honestly and honestly. Do you really think that someone in Glogovec will say that this is not an independent Kosovo, in Glogovec where we managed to hold the municipal administration with four people in 1997 and 1998, as you know, where both Voja Zivkovic and Miladin Ivanovic were working with both of us, etc., good people, good politicians at that time? They fought hard because they knew we couldn't keep it all. Is that right, Stevic, was it? (Tević Bell, from the city: Yes. They knew how real it was, and they fought harder and harder. I'm telling you about a distant period that we a little older in politics still remember and we know it well. Guys, let's take a nice look and say if there's one of us here who wants to live there? Is there one of us who won't use it and say, "Here I am in Gazimestan, saying something against whom I don't know?" Against whom, against what? We're going to Gazimestan on June 28th. When are we still going to Gazimestan? Do we know that Albanians live in all the places around Gazimestan? We have, come on over here, say, in Obilić, in the municipality we have a noble, here Prilujje, which already belongs to Vučitrn, the Babin Bridge we have still here. We've lost the peaches, and that's all, and we've got nothing left. Is that right? Well, that's right. Why don't we tell our people? Because 90% of Serbs think they are pure Serbian places. No, they're not, unfortunately, not yours or my fault, as you know. Let's look at things realistically. What is it we can do? We can take care of our people, take care of our people's safety, our people's safety, take care of their economic prosperity, say, great that you've made such a pointless decision on Trepca, you can't implement it, but we'll have problems, too, because now we can't import explosives for Trepca, and we need explosives for mines, that people don't think we need explosives for something else, we need explosives for mines. So I'm just saying, let's set our goals more realistic. Come on, Serbs, let's ask ourselves, not to send other people's children somewhere, but to say what's real, what's what we can accomplish. You wouldn't believe how hard we're fighting for those goals that we can for those hundreds and several thousand of our people who live on Kim today to do something for them and more of them living south of Ibra than north of Ibra, and north of Ibra we have compact territory. And what shall we say to our host in Klockut and Donjo Budriga who is exposed to the mercy and mercy of the Albanian neighbour? He wants us to talk in Brussels. He's asking us to negotiate. You said something about CEFTA earlier. Just look. Don't mind one thing, if Milan, if I didn't make a mistake, I apologize, I haven't made a mistake, Milan, don't mind one thing, we're the first time, and today I would have signed it, then I wouldn't, when you signed CEFTA, then for the first time as a special customs area we singled out Kosovo's territory, ever since all our goods entered Kosovo, it's our exports. I take care every time I talk about it, and I don't say exports to Kosovo, if you noticed, but I'm talking about exports to Pristina, if you noticed. Although it would be normal for me to say exports to Kosovo, because that from CEFTA, that agreement is going to work. What was your alternative? It wasn't. What's ours today? She's gone. To protect as much as we can, hard to protect the people, but the people there must be present on the market, we must be present to the economy and our slave, we can be the country that has the most present goods in Pristina, both in Prizren and in Peca. Guys, these have to be our new goals and our new policy. Who doesn't understand it, and I'm not telling you, he doesn't think well, and he doesn't act responsiblely and seriously towards his country, and you all know I'm right, except he doesn't answer to anyone to say it. I also wanted to call some ministers from temporary institutions in Nis. Kosovo governments and then they told me – don't, you'll only get mad for free. I just wanted to bring them all to Nis and show, let's say -- hey, people want Nis to build a center of the region, we want to see how to speed up trade, get across the administrative line, as you say, borders. Do you really think earlier, when the Adriatics speak, that they will admit that it is not an independent Kosovo? Well, they were admitted by America, Germany, England, France, and I don't know who, so they never will. They will never, and we won't let them enter the UN. We don't let them enter UNESCO. We protect it as our territory in accordance with the Constitution on which we took our oath and fight for that constitution as long as we can. Let's look the truth in the eye. They're real, they add of course, they're real down about a million and a half. They're gone. You want me to tell you what the games about Montenegro's demarcation are now, as well as Turkish visa liberalisation? The point is that neither one of them gets visa liberalisation because within a year, 300,000 Albanians would leave Kosovo and therefore will not, and that condition is conditioned by demarcation with Montenegro for what Serbs have to vote for, and Serbs can never vote for it because it would de facto recognise Kosovo's independence. And there's a game for you all, as the Turks now won't give visa liberalisation, although it would suit us because of the incomparably larger revenues, etc., and of course it all fits into our European path and everything else. These are far more serious and much bigger topics that we need to discuss here. And that's why Milic started it earlier. And that's why we need to talk about it openly. And let's tell you what else is there. I'm ready for a closed session, so we can tell you what we know about other things, so you can get to know each other and you can judge, not show up in the paper the next day. (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: we know all this.) That's great. If you know all that, I wish I'd seen better solutions before, and I wish I'd seen a little more rational policy, as I'd like to see on Horizon today... We may have seen or may not, but your policy is assessed by citizens in Kosovo by giving you one or two percent, and we are 62%, so it comes to the same, however you turn, and I'm talking about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Nenad Milic, from the post: This man did not vote. ) Yes, as you were saying about the vote of a 140-year-old man who turned out to be a 40-year-old man, so you wouldn't let him vote just because he voted for the SNS and the man was from the Kosovo Maritimes. Okay, that's your relationship. You're right, someone else did it. You're great, the people love you very much, just on the ballot something strange happens, and that's some problem serious, and I accept that's the point. Once again, I want to thank you fully for believing that in the future we will be able to open dialogue on these most important, key political issues that will also mean a better economy for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you all for your attention, honourable Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-27-0.u4887	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for respecting Parliament and for having really answered the parliamentary questions of the majority and even more MPs of the opposition, and for extending the work on his personal request so that the DSS parliamentary group would have the opportunity to ask questions. This concludes this part of the session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that by applying the electronic system in the O.R., there are 128 MPs present and that we have conditions to continue our work. Do any of the presidents, or authorized representatives, want to ask for a word? (Jorge Vukadinović, from the scene: I answered, but your system is not working.) George, are you authorized in front of the parliamentary group? Are you at the Parliament Club? Okay. I don't know, I have to check. It's not a provocation, really.
