ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-28-0.u14250	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the reason of needing us to approach and declare the draft laws we discussed yesterday and today. I'd like to inform you that she's the only one who's reported to the Rules of Procedure of MP Milena Bicanin that she won't be here. Dear Members of the National Assembly, since the conditions have been met, I would like to suggest that I confirm my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly for the vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's MP have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27 of Law No 5, determines the approval of the mandate of MP Ivana Dinic, elected from the Ivica Dačić – SPS, JS – Dragan Marković Palma. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the Report and the proposal of the competent committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ivana Dinic. Dear People's MPs, you are already here, I invite you to comply with Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, take an oath. "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil freedoms and for the best of my knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the People's Parliament to sign the text of the oath. I congratulate you on your behalf and on behalf of all MPs and MPs and I wish you success in our further joint work. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, given that it has already voted on points 16 to 27 of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, 28 December 2016, starting at 12.10 p.m. as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the existence of a voting quorum. Please insert identification cards into the MPs of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for our work today. I am putting on the vote of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees, in principle I am concluding the vote: for – 138, v – five, abstentions – no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic, the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of the People's Movement of Serbia, the MP group DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Dejan Sukic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats Vojvodina Group – the Green Party submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Miroslav Nikolic Đuričić, five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—nine, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—nine, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was filed by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, 11 MPs from the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – nine, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. I'm putting the vote on the bill amending the law on public media services, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—one against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—six, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – five, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – nine abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Public Media Services. I'm putting on the vote on the draft law amending the laws on the amendment of the laws on temporary adjustment of payment fees for the public media service, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – eight, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs of the Dvori Group, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group and joint MPs Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—six, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for –three, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic and Tomislav LJubenović, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group, seven MPs of the Parliament group "Dveri" and joint MPs Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—one against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – seven, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, v – seven, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for the Public Media Service. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – six, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, MPs of the DS, MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, MP Alexander Cabraj, MP Branka Stamenković and MP of the people, Zoran Zivkovic, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – four, against – one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of Parliament Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, MPs of the DS, MP Branka Stamenkovic and MP Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare that there are four abstentions for – 141 against – four abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the law on the regulation of courts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 143 against – five abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, MPs of the Dveri group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MP group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, MP group Dveri and DS MP group, the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MP group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, MP group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, in principle. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 139 against – one with abstentions. I find that the Assembly passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Mrko Milenkovic, Parliament group Dveri, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the LSDV Group – the Green Party submitted the amendment to Article 2. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, MP group Dveri, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MP group Dveri, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, SDS, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment has been submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, SDS parliamentary group, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. No amendment accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, SDS, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. No amendment accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 140-seat vote. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – no one has joined the vote from those present. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote : there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Marija Janjušević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 12th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 14th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 139 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I am concluding the vote – none of the 139 present voted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 139 present voted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. No amendment accepted. Maria Janjušević submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote of 140 present. Professor Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote of 140 present. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 16th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. The 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 139 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 17th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 18th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – none of the 142 present voted. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukalović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 142 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 19th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – none of the 142 present voted. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 142 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 20th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, Parliament group Dveri and together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, together MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, the Parliamentary Group "Enough Has Been" submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri, Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and the DS Parliament group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – there is no one who is abstention – who has not voted, nine MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Excise Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 134, no one, seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we are moving on to amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that neither of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no MPs present have joined the vote. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no MPs present have joined the vote. The Group of Members of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina – The Green Party submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 142 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that neither of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party and MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, joint MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sukic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs present have joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, National Movement of Serbia and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote by the MPs. To Article 13. The amendment was filed by the Devere Parliament Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulovic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Zukorlic, please check to see if the Ambassador of Jahjaga has left a card or pulled out a bit. Please get it out. Thank you. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – two abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132 versus – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act added value. I am putting on the vote of the draft amending and supplementing law on the tax procedure and the tax administration, in principle I am closing the vote: for – 132, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, the DS parliamentary group, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs present have joined the vote. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 15th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 18th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 19th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: yes - no one has joined the vote. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 24th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, Parliament Group Dveri, Parliament Group DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. Member of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Parliament Group Dveri, MP DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on the Download of the Obligations of the Accionary Society for the Production of petrochemical Products, Sirovine and Chemicals “HIP – PETROCHEMY”, Pancevo, according to the company of the “Foot Industry of Serbia” A.D. NEW NOW and the conversion of these commitments into a public long-term Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-28-0.u14251	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three people. 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group – National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new article is added after Article 5. 5a. and 5b. She's been submitted by the Dwri MPs' group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new Article 5a is added after Article 5. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the takeover of the company's obligations to produce petrochemical products, raw materials and chemicals "HIP – Petrochemija", Panchevo, according to the company Oil Industry of Serbia, Novi Sad and transforming these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – three abstentions – there are no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law I am putting to the vote the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliamentary Group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, and 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belančić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group of MPs, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, two, two, two, two, one, two, two, two, one, two, one, two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, two, two, two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 142 MPs in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by a messenger of 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by a messenger of 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belančić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, seven MPs of the Dvori group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesovic, four MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesovic, four MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Saša Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 139, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on IMPLEMENTORS, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. On Chapter 1, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 2 and Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 3 and Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the 4th and 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 5 and of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 6th and 6th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 7 and of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 8 and of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the 9th and 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 10th and of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vujaklovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of Vojvodina – the Green Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for the three against them; there has been no vote of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them, 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 13 and of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 13th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the same text, Members of the 14th and 14th amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 16 and of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 17 and of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the 19th and 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted an amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 20th and of the 20th amendments, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the LSDV parliamentary group, the Green Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 141 people's messenger for three. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against one, abstained -- one, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against two abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Article 23 and of the 23rd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 143 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 24 and of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 25 and of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, with the correction of seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 26 and of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dr Marko Milenkovic, with the correction of seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. On behalf of members 27 and of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No MP has joined the vote. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. On behalf of the 28th and 28th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No MP has joined the vote. The 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, with a correction, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. On Chapter 6, the name of the 29th and 29th amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. On behalf of the 30th and of the 30th amendments, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. At the title of Article 31 and of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The 31st Amendments in the same text were submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 32nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 33rd and of the 33rd Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 33rd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Saric and Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 34th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter VII, the name of the member 35th and member of the 35th amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 35th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The LSV-ZS parliamentary group submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Article 36 and of the 36th Amendment, the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 36th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and by Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the LSV-ZS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 37th and of the 37th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members 38th and of the 38th Amendment, the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 39th and of the 39th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 39th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter VIII, the name of the member of the 40th and member of the 40th amendments in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 40th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. At the title of Article 41 and of the 41st Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 41st Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the member of the 42nd and member of the 42nd amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and the MP group DS submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 42nd amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Vidinovic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The title of the 43rd and the 43rd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 44th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and by the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the 45th and the 45th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 45th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter IX, the name of the member of the 46th and member of the 46th amendments in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 46th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 46th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The names of members of the 47th and the 47th amendments in the same text were submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 47th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members 48th and of the 48th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 47th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The Social Democratic Party Group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. At the title of Article 49 and of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament Group Dveri and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the 50th and the 50th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament Group Dveri and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law on evaluators of the value of immovableity, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on evaluators of the value of immovableity. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings for citizens, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. On behalf of Glava I and member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Parliament Group Dveri. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava II and member of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by the seven MPs of the Dvori Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava III and Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, Parliament group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS MP group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic, the Deveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava IV and member of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović together, and the MP group Dvers I am voting on this amendment. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The 20th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. On behalf of Chapter 5 and Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, and by the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. It notes that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings from citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 23 December 2016, at 12 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote, I find that the National Assembly has decided that no injured member, no one has voted. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 23 December 2016, at 14 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: for - two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 17 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 19 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Marija Janjusevic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 20 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 01 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 02 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 02 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 27 and 158 of Section 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Members, this concludes our second regular session in 2016. I want to thank you for your truly dedicated work. See you next year. I wish you a happy New Year and a holiday with you loved ones. Thank you very much.
