ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6364	I ask MPs to enter the O.R. and take their seats. I ask all present to take their seats. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, our regular guests were invited at today's session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the Central Bank of BiH, the Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions and the BiH Ombudsman, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session, were also invited to attend the session. I would like to inform you that from the cabinet of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić, it has been announced that the chairman is unable to attend the House session due to earlier commitments. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MP Monika Tomić. I have no further announcements, requests to justify the absence, and Mr. Saša Magazinović announced a delay in today's session. That's all I can tell you at this point when it comes to an announcement about the presence and absence of today's session. At this point in the O.R., we have a total of 40 MPs. I find that the House of Representatives has conditions for full work and decision-making. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the meetings of the following committees were held in preparation for this session: the Constitutional Commission, the Finance Commission and the Budget Commission, the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Commission for Transport and Communications. All commissions had conditions and worked and did the part of the work they were expected to do in preparing this session. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. Add to the agenda: Point 3. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the attack on the Zvornik Police Station and on the recent detention of people in the RS area, act No 01,02-04-745/15, from 26.05.2015, in accordance with the earlier conclusions of the House of Representatives' College. Point 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Špirić to supplement the 11th session of the House of Representatives' agenda to the point that reads - Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack in Zvornik No: 01-50-1-15-1/15, since 14.05.2015. 2 Point 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 03-50-19-587-1/15, since 18.05.2015. Point 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Serbia under the 2013 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01,02-05-2-723/15, since 21.05.2015. Point 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Annex to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation and Support in relation to the Seceritariat of the Convention on Police Co-operation for Southeast Europe since 21 May 2010 (COM 06/14), No 01.02-05-2-724/15 of 21.05.2015. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sport in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-3/15, of 26.02.2015 (second reading), was removed from the agenda at the request of the Constitutional Commission because of the absence of the legislator from the Commission's session. Point 7. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Nikola Lovrinović on the discussion of the Commission's Report on Transport and Communications on the public hearing of representatives of BHANSA, BHDCA and the Council of Ministers on the failures mentioned in the Report on the Implementation of the Impact Review on the theme "The Control of Air Traffic of Bosnia and Herzegovina", which reads: "All bodies that submit reports on work and financial operations to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should provide a summary of reports with indications of problems and proposals for solutions, and the report is based on the methodology for this. The summary may have a maximum of 5 pages", number: 01/05-16-1131/14, since 27.04.2015, has been removed from the agenda because the College of the House has reached agreement on that conclusion (the House will be informed of it on previous issues). Point 13. The report on the work of the Office for the Review of BiH's 2014 Appeals, issue: 01-50-19-554/15 of 13 April 2015, was removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget, which adopted the following conclusion: – The Finance Commission and the Budget of the Representative's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH postpones its statement on the report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2014 and asks the Office for the Review of Appeals to submit, within 30 days, a supplement to the Report, in which it will taxively list 408 cases of complaints for which the Office has declared incompetent with the indication of the value of each individual procurement. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6365	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 3 A group of MPs submitted a timely act to the Srebrenica Resolution. I do not see that in the course of listing the proposed agenda points you mentioned an act submitted by a group of MPs, so on behalf of the group of MPs who have submitted, I ask that the resolution be put in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6366	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6367	Gentlemen of the College, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. At the last meeting of the House of Representatives, I asked for a break and proposed a agenda item, which is the Information of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the terrorist attack in Zvornik, which was, of course, the conclusion of the House of Representatives' College. Today I see that, we have received a report, that no agreement has been reached, but I don't think this gymnastics on the agenda will help Bosnia and Herzegovina fight terrorism decisively. It is logical that point 4 was point 3 and point 3 of point 4 for the way the College declared that initiative, because actually this is how the points of the agenda are formed. I think that, of course, I will not talk about Information 3, she is prepared, but I think that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina expected this House, the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, at least when fighting terrorism, to strongly support all agencies in the fight against terrorism, apropo Zvornika wherever they happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, terrorism and violence. I see there's no willingness to do that, especially the way you voted last time on my proposal, so this gymnastics on the agenda is absolutely unnecessary. I think you can put point 4. on number 3 and 3. on number 4, because you will obviously debate and tie up today, with nothing challenged, a terrorist act that took place in Zvornik with actions conducted by the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska and, of course, all the ministries in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are sincerely fighting terrorism. It's not daily action, it's not a blitz, it's a bad disease you're not going to win with just one action, it's got to be a permanent task of all the services that are sent to that fight. And that's why I think the only solution I've been calling for is for this Parliament to give investigative support to agencies in the fight against terrorism with regard to the terrorism that took place in Zvornik. I see you're making one of these, I'd say, a play that unfortunately sends bad messages about Bosnia and Herzegovina and this House of Representatives. And that's why I don't want to continue to take part in this, my position is to give... support in the fight against terrorism apropo what happened, that terrorist act in Zvornik. And I think we need to make a change, a correction to make point four be point three, and point three point four, no matter what tone the debate is going to be about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6368	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6369	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives. 4 In accordance with Article 71(1) Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I propose to include in the agenda today's session a new item on the agenda – Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the threat of freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the verbal and physical attack on the press team Face Television in Banja Luka on 22 May this year. We are all witnessing that we have a frequent violation of the right to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina's journalistic profession and that is also a violation of the right to freedom of expression. A verbal and physical attack on the Face TV team in Banja Luka, by my court, must be sanctioned urgently to make the public throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina a crystal clear message that all those who threaten and prevent journalists from doing their jobs will pass. I believe that, in this context, the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina must show full seriousness, support and solidarity with journalists whose rights are being threatened systematically and increasingly. We must not be in a position for the authorities, both legislative and executive authorities, by their inaction, failure or non-interesting to contribute to the situation for us to become perfectly normal scenes to see journalists attacking Bosnia and Herzegovina's state territory. So I suggest we put this point on the agenda. I'm delivering material in writing with an explanation. Here at the session he is present, I see, and the Minister of Security, so I believe there will be no problem opening this topic today at the House of Representatives session and making very clear conclusions and sending, more importantly, a very clear message to all those who are jeopardizing the journalistic profession in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6370	Thank you very much. The replica was answered by Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6371	Gentlemen chairman. I'll just take a minute. I expected when my colleague Bećirović spoke about these things quite seriously and appropriately, and of course I am for the freedom of the media and against the mere endangerment of the media anywhere, but I thought that my colleague Bećirović would bring this into the context of the situation in Banja Luka, that he would first seek the condemnation of Sejfudin Tokić's behaviour. And I think Banja Luka has shown dignity and that people have proudly endured the provocations that have been brought into Banja Luka. I think that we should stop with the provocations and that if this Parliament does not have the strength to condemn Sejfudin Tokić's behaviour, we will not help the media with any conclusion or resolution to make. Let's stop provoking each other. To talk about protecting the rights of the media, I am for that, but to isolate it from the context of the situation that happened in Banja Luka, I am about to send a message today to congratulate Banja Luka and the Banja Lukans on holding. analizirati that someone came to Sarajevo with a war flag and stopped at any corner here if there was an incident. I'm against it. And give it to me when we're talking about something that we're bringing into the context of things. I don't think there's anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina a lunatic or a group of lunatics who'll think of jeopardizing the right to freedom, freedom of the media. But if you put something in a particular situation, then there can be a situation like that. So, we can talk about everything but in the context of events. If you are prepared to condemn the behaviour of Sejfudin Tokić, I am prepared to condemn the threat of media freedom. But 5 let's be realistic, are you ready or not ready? If you're not to... we're not helping this unfortunate people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6372	Thank you very much. I'm paying attention that this is a debate on the agenda. I won't allow a debate about the essence of the agenda debate. I'll keep you informed. But I will give my word to everyone and I ask you to take care of this. Mr. Denis Bećirović, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6373	It is regrettable that we have now heard that one of the MPs in the House of Representatives is trying in one way or another to justify an apparent and verbal physical attack on journalists or in this case on the press crew of Face TV. Instead of such an approach, I want to say very clearly – there is no excuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina for any journalist in this country to be attacked anywhere during the performance of his role, his activities and his jobs. And in that sense, seeking justification for such a single procedure is absolutely unacceptable. The opening of Sejfudin Tokić's theme, related to this topic, is not at all related to this. This is, therefore, a principled attitude on these issues. As for Mr Sejfudin Tokić, it is our former colleague, one of the chairmans of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I will update this issue through parliamentary issues today. Because carrying the legal flag of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the flag with which this state is recognised in the UN, and in Article 1. The BiH constitution also states that Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its legal existence, in accordance with the BiH Constitution. Are we going to copy the Constitution and Article 1 here? Therefore, showing the flag of the Republic of BiH, with which it is recognised in the UN, is legally internationally recognised, so the state, as a war flag, is only the product of a propaganda that only naive people can fall for. Therefore, in order not to leave the topic, my proposal to include the agenda is very clear. This second question cannot be associated with it, although I am not at all afraid to make my point very clear about it, therefore. And I must say, when you wanted to, that Mr. Sejfudin Tokić wore the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina that everyone in this House should be proud of.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6374	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6375	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers, guests and, of course, fellow Members of Parliament. I must say that much is saddening at the beginning of today's session, and colleagues' initiatives by Denis Bećirović are becoming increasingly sadder. In fact, it would be expected of us to turn to some other issues in the direction that the EU has given us, rather than constantly address some issues that produce disagreements and conflicts in this country. It would be good if counterpart Bećirović proposed a resolution that would help at least one citizen in this country to raise his salary for a German mark, for one of our brands. Then I would warmly support my colleague Bećirović. It would be good if counterpart Bećirović proposed one resolution, one law that he knew in advance that we would all agree, or at least there would be a great chance that everyone would agree. This is how we propose all the time of the resolution, the laws in which we know in advance that we are going to cause political disagreements, the most contributes, in fact, to the very bad work and relations in this Parliament. I, of course, am not going to support this, it's simple, not because I don't think it should be endangered in any way by the freedom of the media, but because the topic cannot be separated from the subject that he was talking about earlier. And I don't think we should talk here about Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6376	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6377	Not wanting to go into the discussion at all, just for a little while. Let's stop talking about something that's legal and what's legal, and what's nowhere is prohibited as something that's illegal or illegal and illegal. Flags or flags, it's something that's a legal category that's consistent with the Dayton Peace Agreement,...continuity. Just 'cause we brought the other one doesn't mean we're prohibiting one. I'm absolutely in favour of flaging the ISIL, the black-headed flags, with cross-knifes and so on, not only bans, but to stop winding up in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Chetnics, ISILs, and so on and their flags that don't belong to these areas. And what belongs to these spaces and to history, if we have nothing in Franciscan alone in Fojnica, in the historical coat of arms of BiH, and it's nothing that is wary, because it's called the Dayton Peace Accords, the ones who signed it have aligned and said it's all legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6378	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurevi, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6379	I thank the chairman. I'm really going to try to refrain from commenting on the flags. It is known when once a Serbian flag appeared in Sarajevo the war began. The war has begun, Mr. Backović. When the Srbin passed the flag through Sarajevo, they ended up. As for the principle of Mr. Bećirović's principle, I really condemn every attack on every media and every journalist, but Mr. Bećirović, where you had this principle when in December 14th, a team of BN televisions was the most horrified in Brcko District, where they were insulted by Chetnik TV, etc.? Where was your principle, Mr Bećirović, when the RTRS team was arrested two years ago in Sarajevo? Then why didn't we talk about it? Is it okay what's been going on with this, and what happened to Face TV is wrong? Why didn't you hear the voice then? Why didn't you hear the voice? In addition to asking for information from the Ministry of Security for something the Republika Srpska MUP is responsible for, Mr. Bećirović is leaving constitutional jurisdiction. For the event in Banja Luka, if there was an incident, it is responsible and responsible for the Republika Srpska MUP, and in that case your MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia need to ask a question. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6380	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić, this is another replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6381	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. However, the way we are having the debate convinces me that I was right not to actually contribute these topics to anything good in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's put the flags aside. I am, therefore, immediately saying that I am... for the absolute freedom of the media. That day, the gentleman I mentioned in Banja Luka brought hate. That day Banja Luka mourned 12 babies and was a memorial. Hate should not be brought to any city, to any municipality, to any corner of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With hatred, no one will achieve anything in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I tied those two cases up. And I wouldn't mind if Parliament had sent a message today that it would not support anyone who provokes Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you asked those people who were, there were two, if they came to provoke, they would say yes. What our response to provocation is, I'm very interested in it. So, for the freedom of the media absolutely, but come to the day when the memorial for 12 babies is to defile and challenge people, so I think Banja Luka showed dignity that day because she didn't fall for provocation. I'm not sure that the other environments would be so tolerated, and I think we should end this debate because we're not going to solve anything. And at first I said I'm sorry that this kind of debate took place, I did my best not to give her a chance to have this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6382	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, second replica. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6383	Just for a little while. Since this Parliament remembers when the flag of blue-yellow became an official flag, and by that time, the official flag was the flag that was on the mast in front of the UN, so that in this House, the flag stood at the place of this flag. And it's not the flag of a nation, of a national, of a religion, but of a flag of a state. And I agree with you, Miss Pandurević, for everything that is challenging and which creates tension should be avoided fat. I don't mind the flag of any nation, but it really bothers me when the flags that cause and irritate others appear, but those that don't belong to this cultural mile. I said from ISIL over the dead heads and so on, but I don't see it reacting in any space in such a way as to finally remove it from something that doesn't belong to us as humans. Absolutely all these flags bother me terribly, including those hung along the roads when going through Central Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6384	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6385	So, first of all, I have to say, whether something is proposed to pass or not. I'm surprised your esteemed colleague didn't refer to one of the clubs here in Parliament that was 12. 8th session in a row suggests one and the same point and it falls. And if we all worked together to be in line with that, we wouldn't make it. So let's keep an eye on it. The other thing, Mr. Špirić was talking about hate. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we all opted to address life, economic issues, speed up Euro-Atlantic integration, etc. When did you hear anyone say anything besides that? However, when the ruling Republika Srpska party adopts a Timed Declaration in 2017 that envisions the collapse of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know very well what it would do if it were to happen, then, Mr Špirić, it is a cause of hatred. And if you expect it to run out of answers, it's illusory. That's what he has to answer. The second thing, we are as Parliament established, seems to me on 10 December 2014, and colleague Pandurević spoke about the pressures that took place on 14 December. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problem with having a discussion today about these cases and getting equally principled into the protection of all journalists doing their own journalistic profession. And when it comes to constitutional competencies, so we have point 3 today where we could interpret in different ways what is what constitutional jurisdiction, but it is clear that there is one, and that there should be much more effective coordination of police bodies, therefore there is a strong responsibility to discuss it. On one occasion, in January, we seem to be discussing this point of the agenda when it was an intrusion into Klix.ba portal, so there is no reason not to talk about it today and take a very clear stance, I repeat a principled one that means the protection of all journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6386	Thank you very much. Mr. Predrag Kožul, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6387	Good afternoon fellow MPs and all guests. It's a replica to Mr. Backović. I may be speculating, but when Mr. Backović mentioned flags or banners he sees in Central Bosnia and Herzegovina, I say I may be speculating, but I assume he meant red-and-white fairy tales with chess. And I will say that these are the banners that belong to this mile, to this country and to the Croatian people in this country, and I really think that it is a serious problem if it is the issue of these banners and if they are questioned as characteristics which are indeed the characteristics of the Croatian people, the constituent people in this country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6388	Thank you very much. Mr. Senad Šepić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6389	The replica is to all those who think that we should discuss this matter in this way today. I suggest that we renovate and support the conclusion that I had when we first talked about this when it was Klix's story, that we really asked the competent media to prepare information about the state of the media with a special reference to this, as I would say, attacks on 9 journalists and, in that sense, to lead one debate and to generally determine ourselves on all these issues. Each individual extraction of anything from the context can only put us in a position to, here we have this situation that we have here in Parliament today. And I would ask all those who, here are trying in any way to make some topic to put it a little bit aside, and to sort of put again on the agenda what we previously agreed on, but to make it one broad, whole information and so further relate to this...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6390	Thank you very much. Mr. Backović had two replicas no longer have the right to reply. Mr. Staša Košarac has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6391	I would like to welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and other guests present. I'll be very brief. We continue to use our business opportunity, given that our initiative did not go to Usz and the Extended College, and by using Article 71(1), we ask that before the point proposed by Mr Špirić, we find a point of the agenda – a decision on the resolution of Mr Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, or a member of the Kolegijum. And of course I invite my colleagues and colleagues to support our initiative. There's no need to give an additional explanation, we have everything in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6392	I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sum up the results of this debate and tell you what it is we will plead on the agenda. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6393	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6394	The debate on the agenda is closed and don't interrupt me as I speak, have so much respect for what I'm doing here and for the Rules of Procedure that we have. I have concluded the debate and I ask you to disengage yourself, Mr. Backović, from this monitor, when it comes to the debate. Mr. Backović, I've invited you to turn off the key for, uh, ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6395	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6396	You can't have while I speak right to business intervention, I've concluded, you can later. I told you what I had to say, please shut down. 10 Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me inform you. When it comes to the agenda item on the Srebrenica Genocide Proposal, the material came to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly after a call was sent for today's session, otherwise it would have been included in the agenda because it would have been a mandatory point then if it had come before the call for today's session was signed and sent. We had a session of the College yesterday where we did not get the consent to propose to the extended college to put this into the agenda of today's session. After that, we had a session of an extended college where we also, with the agreement of one of the promoters, said that this was not the point of the agenda of today's session. So one of the promoters said there will be no problem if this is not today's agenda point, and it will necessarily be the point of the next session. After that, I was informed by the same person that there would still be a proposal to do so on the agenda. And of course, if that was left yesterday at the Enlarged College, the Extended College would be declared, and today the House of Representatives will be declared. So, there is no dilemma about it, and we are going to declare the proposal today, you are right, which we heard at the beginning of this session, to include the agenda point – the proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. Secondly, as a proposal we had, Mr Špirić's proposal to amend the agenda, i.e. replacing points 3 and 4. I am informing you that points 3 and 4 have been agreed by the fact that point 3 has been announced as either the main or the first after the procedural points, and the minutes and the parliamentary questions fall into the usual points and are always mandatory, so the first next is the Council of Ministers' Information, and it has been placed as such. And then, at the head of the agenda points concerning the Commission's Reports, the College of Consensus is also what is stated in the agenda today. So, but since a colleague is asking for a replacement, we will put it to a vote and that proposal. The third point is, proposed by Mr Denis Bećirović, which reads – Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the threat of freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special focus on verbal and physical assault on the press team Face TV in Banja Luka since 22.05.2015. And this will be the subject of voting at today's session. And we have another proposal, this is Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal for the replacement of the chairman's House of Representatives. I invite you to prepare for...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6397	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6398	You can't ask for a break in the course of the vote, so we should vote, and then you'll ask for a break, please. _________(?) /not a microphone turned on/ Here you go, MP intervention, Mr. Backović. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6400	The Rules of Procedure under which this House of Representatives in Chapter 8. writes precisely – Resolution and other acts. The House may have a resolution,...an MP may submit a motion for a resolution under consideration at the House session. And it doesn't say anywhere that there's a vote on the agenda. You have to read that to me, I guess it's correct to at least follow the Rules of Procedure we're working on. So there isn't, there isn't. It's a mandatory agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6401	Thank you very much, Mr. Backović. It is, therefore, a mandatory item of the agenda. I now again, therefore, must inform you of this, but that is the mandatory point of the agenda when she is in parliamentary procedure before the call for a session is signed. After that, all decisions are made by the Expansive College and this House. Please, I want this House and the public to know how things are with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mešić, are you staying at the 30-minute break request?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6402	So, the promoters, Mr. Chairman, are agreed that the resolution goes on June 10th as a mandatory point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6403	I don't understand you, I didn't hear you, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6404	Proposers agree that the Srebrenica genocide resolution goes to the June 10th Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6405	Thank you very much. You mean you're giving up this proposal to get into today's agenda. Thank you very much. We've closed the debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6406	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6407	You didn't deliver anything in writing, Mr. Šepić. Please move to a statement and vote. Please prepare for the vote. Until this moment, we've got it and we're voting on the agenda. _________(?) 12 [[no microphone turned on]] We've closed the debate, please, we've concluded the debate. I ask you, I call you, we have concluded the debate on the agenda. I call upon you to plead. So, the promoter withdrew the proposal for the Srebrenica Resolution on the condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica today to be on the agenda. Let's go to Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal to replace points 3 and 4. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, 23 against, 4 abstentions. This proposal did not get a majority in Parliament. We move to a statement on the proposal for a agenda point, Mr Denis Bećirović – Information from the Ministry of Security on the threat of freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to verbal and physical attack on the press team Face TV in Banja Luka on 22.05.2015. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 21 for, 16 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority, there is no majority of RS entities. Can we approach the alignment immediately or will it be later? Now. I'm okay with this going into the agenda. You're not in agreement. Okay. So we're going to the second round of voting, because there's no consent from the College around this item of the agenda. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 23 for, 16 against. Against 13 from the RS entity, that's more than 2/3. I find that this isn't the agenda point today, that Dom didn't accept this as a part of the agenda. And we have a proposal from Mr. Košarac for the replacement of the chairman's House of Representatives, to include that item on the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So seven votes to, 28 against, three abstentions. This item was not accepted by the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that today's session agenda is as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the 11th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 13 3. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the attack on Zvornik Police Station and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska, act No 01,02-04-745/15, of 26.05.2015; 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Špirić for the addition of the 11th session of the House of Representatives' agenda to the point that reads: "Information by the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack in Zvornik", issue: 01-50-1-15-11/15, of 14.05.2015; 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Mirsad Mešić (Emergency Procedure Act), No: 01-02-1-5/15, of 26.03.2015; 6. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the adoption of the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry report on external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013, issue: 01,02-24-1446/14, of 26.12.2014; 7. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the adoption of the Foreign Trade Ministry Report and Economic Relations of BiH on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2012, issue 01,02-24-14, of 26.12.2014; 8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on receiving information from the BiH Export and Credit Agency on measures and actions taken to eliminate difficulties and ensure the necessary preconditions for normal work, No: 01-50-19-487/15, of 01.04.2015; 9. Reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2014: 9.1. Financial reports for the year that ended 31.12.2014, 9.2. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2014, issue: 01-50-19-496/15, of 03.04.2015; 10. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Divide and use of funds of the current reserve”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1202/14 of 13.11.2014; 11. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Accommodation of Professional Military Persons in the Ministry of Defence of BiH", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, Act No: 01/4-16-1492/14, of 30.12.2014; 12. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2014, issue: 01,02-10-523/15, dated 08.04.2015; 13. Report on the activities of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2014, issue 01/4-16-1-555/15, of 14.04.2015; 14. Consider the Mladen Bosić parliamentary initiative, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, number 79/14), I launch the Initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the point: ‘Information of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for the Prices of Mobile Operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina’, Act No 01-50-1-572/15, of 16.04.2015; 15. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Obligation Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-33/14, of 24.07.2014; 16. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-135/14, of 15.09.2014.; 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Auditor General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: 14 Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-538/15, of 09.04.2015. (scheduled debate at the 11th session of the House, held on 13.05.2015); 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 03-50-19-587-1/15, dated 18.05.2015; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the Bosnia and Herzegovina cross-border programme – Serbia under the 2013 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01,02-05-2-723/15, of 21.05.2015; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Annex to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation and Support in relation to the Secretariat of the Convention on Police Co-operation for South East Europe since 21 May 2010. (COM 06/14), number: 01,02-05-2-724/15, of 21.05.2015. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, which is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 11th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6411	I thank the chairman. I would like to comment that I have not received a written reply to my earlier oral parliamentary question, and it has expired for 15 days. So it's the Department of Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6412	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6413	I thank the chairman. On 3 April 2015, I also addressed the parliamentary issue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and it was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade in Economic Relations, notably the Veterinary Office. So, no respect for the Rules of Procedure, nor did I get an answer since April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6414	Thank you very much. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6415	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. At the first session in April, I asked the Ministry of Security, or the Agency for the Control of Movement and Stay of Foreigners about a person at the Immigration Centre. Then I got one straight answer and I asked for an addendum of the answer in writing. Here, and to this day I didn't get it, so I can't refer to that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6416	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6417	Mr. Chairman, I warmly welcome you all. I received an answer from the BiH Security Minister, who I thank for the written answer, although he expressed it behind the House's pay phone when I asked the question orally and expressed my dissatisfaction with the response afterwards. The answer has not yet been provided in the sense in which I sought information, although it is seen here that there will be complete information, and Dom has also asked for one complete information about activities at the establishment of a radioactive 16-waste dump on the Trade Mountain. I therefore hope that this information will be made by the competent institutions and I expect a debate in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6418	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all those present here in the O.R. What I'm trying to say is that I've led two initiatives to fund sports and successful individuals representing this country. Another initiative was related to the financing of scientific and research work, i.e. research work in the development of projects in which Bosnia and Herzegovina can participate. But even to this day, I have not received any response to these two initiatives. I expect I'll get it, but here's the thing, unfortunately, I haven't got it until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6420	Thank you. Anyone else want to comment? If no one ever answers the word, we close the debate on item 2 of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 3. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the attack on Zvornik Police Station and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska As you know, the House College requested information from the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack in Zvornik, which took place on 27.04.2015. Then, due to this event, the House session was postponed, which was scheduled for 29.04.2015, i.e. A new date has been set for its maintenance in 13.05.2015. Since the information of the BiH Council of Ministers was not delivered within the deadline set by the Kolega of Ministers, which was 12/05/2015, the College of the House of Enlargement decided at the 10th session, held on 12 May 2015, to supplement the information on all activities of the relevant security institutions at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina that were undertaken before and after the terrorist attack in Zvornik. It is decided that this updated information should be the first item of the agenda of the next session of the House of Representatives scheduled for 28 May 2015. The General Assembly requested that the information be provided by 26 May 2015 at the latest. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered information on the attack on the Zvornik police station and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska. You got the information. 17 I'm opening a debate. I suggest that before we begin the debate, the representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH turn to us, here, above all, I think of the ministers present here. And here's the deal, if we can make this deal, I'm calling on the Minister of Security to address the House of Representatives. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6422	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the College, esteemed MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I wouldn't go back pretty much now explaining or saying about when and which initiative was initiated by one conclusion..., another conclusion in terms of making this information, because a certain number of conclusions by these events was proposed by this House, and a number of conclusions proposed by the Minister's Council itself, so that then, whether, and on your initiative... said that we would round it up, try to round it up in one piece and inform this House of Representatives. And I would also like to inform you that before this information or this information was discussed by the Council of Ministers. And after he got acquainted with this information, he made a number of conclusions that are listed here in this document. So I would then focus more on this information in the sense that the first information was related to, I can now say, a terrorist attack on the Zvornik Police Station, and I can say that because it is a qualification of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and there is an investigation into the existence of a reasonable suspicion that a crime of terrorism was committed under the BiH Criminal Law. So, on 27.04. around 7:00 p.m. at the Zvornik Police Station, an armed person came in, and I'd say just maybe sooner, if I could just get to know you about one fact, that we had this in the first row here on the agenda, we were actually supplied with information that was bearing a confidentiality mark, and then I insisted that after that, when you moved it, or moved it for the next session, you insisted that all the confidentiality marks be removed from these documents. In my assessment, I actually had to ask the author of this information, and by my assessment there was nothing that could not go public, anything that would in any way interfere or affect the investigation. And in fact, that would be transparent, public and that in one public way we would talk about this problem or these problems, and perhaps in a more transparent and public way talk about the issue and the problem of terrorism that is happening or that we are present here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you allow in my opinion... in the end, I may, in the end, personally, be involved with the position of the minister or the position of the function that I'm doing, perhaps suggest some conclusion, because in the meantime we have very intense measures, to say so, and actions in particular, to say, at a regional level. And then within the broader international, or global coalition to which we belong, related to anti-terrorism, a series of activities that are forecasted and now ahead, planned recently, and perhaps it would be good to support it and to exploit, unfortunately, these unloving events to confront the problem of terrorism within Bosnia and Herzegovina, to defeat terrorism and to return to normal, traditional, I would say, here with our civilization values and our way of life. And I started, here to say, on 27.04. around 19:00 at the Zvornik Police Station, a person with initials N., you know what person it was, and entered with a passenger vehicle "Golf" within the circle and courtyard of the police station. Out of the vehicle came armed with one hunting rifle, a semi-automated shotgun that, in whose warehouse stood five bullets and with a gun stamp, or known among us here who, spoken of as "Tetejac", was 7.62mm and immediately without any warning and without any notice, here's a word, along with calls from Allaho's exber and a swearing mother fired a bullet from close proximity to a police officer who was in front of a police station and there at the scene deprived him of life. Afterwards, he entered the police station and found two police officers in the first room. One cop tried to react in a way that he intended to use a firearm, eliminates that person, but when he tried to fire the first bullet, his gun was stuck and then the two were literally some kind of clay target that he fired two bullets into and shot both of the officers from which one was hit more severely, one that was more easily wounded. And then he went down the hall further inside the police station, cursing, shouting and screaming and shooting at the gun he had on him. Afterwards, there were still police officers at the police station, however they did not respond, but he had already passed through the police station's hallway to the end, two police officers showed up from the yard for the special police support he started shooting at. After that, there was an exchange of fire between the police and the attackers, and at that time the attacker was on the spot deprived of life. After that, of course, the BiH Prosecutor's Office was informed, two prosecutors and a special investigative team of the Agency for Investigation and Protection who went to the scene for insight. I say once again, I was there the night in Zvornik, I went there, I attended the good part of doing that insight on the spot, that situation and the condition that remains of a misdemeanor after one such crime with weapons, with corpses, with shells, with a lot of blood on the windows, on the walls, on tables, etc., but it's about all the usual thing about such a crime and code, given the way this crime was committed only. I said more – at that point, prosecutors began to issue certain orders on the spot, in terms of perceptiveness and were given oral orders to search certain objects and spaces based on information collected directly during the exercise of insight. There was immediately some information on a number of persons who could somehow be associated with the perpetrator of this terrorist act. And on the basis of the orders of the BiH Court of Justice, several searches were carried out, and primarily searched by the perpetrators of this terrorist act, or this crime, at the place where the apartments, lived, houses and all rooms, and were found and found and excluded by a series of documents, weapons, ammunition, computer equipment, computers, tablets, USBs, CDs, etc., but it was all here in the Information, you saw what was taken from it., and it was done further, two more searches were carried out with certain persons who could be brought in, I said once again, in connection with the perpetrators of this crime, here I said to Ibrić neredini, who did. I have to point out more, and that's how I end up with this Ibrić, that he was in the trunk of a passenger vehicle that he drove to had another hunting rifle shotgun and here's a note that for this weapon he had issued weapons sheets from the Zvornik Public Security Station, and that the gun was registered to his half-brother, and that the half-brother had an armed list issued by the Zvornik Public Security Station. The search was carried out yet..., I said, after that in two persons, also found and excluded a series of documents, technical equipment and military equipment, weapons. Exceptionally, everything under the orders of the Court of Justice of BiH and this is now the subject of an artisan based on which it is to be established and proved, i.e. to fully enlighten this crime. So, an investigation has been launched, I once again said, by the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the existence of a reasonable suspicion that the crime of terrorism provided for by the BiH Criminal Law was committed. From that point of view, he was also responsible, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, for an investigation into the crime-related court based on the issuing of orders, the Court of BiH and the competent agency, the State Investigation and Protection Agency, in terms of police activities related to the lighting of this crime. So to point out on the spot, at least when I came in, there were prosecutors from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, from the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office, members of the State Agency's Special Unit, the State Investigation and Protection Agency, members, investigators and members of the Republika Srpska Medical Unit. Of course, I can see that he has run all these forces, led by two prosecutors from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. But here, I wanted to express it and express it as one example of one, one good work, one good coordination in this one hard work. I said, after all, after seeing the 19 crime-examination actions carried out, the prosecutor accepted the qualification of the reasonableness of the suspicion that a terrorist act had been committed, and for two persons brought in connection with the perpetrator of this crime, the qualification of terrorism under Article 201 was accepted and the recruitment for terrorist activities referred to in Article 202 b) of the BiH Criminal Law was accepted. Those persons, along with a report on the criminal offence committed, were handed over to the Prosecutor's Office, under which, on a proposal from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Court laid down a measure of detention. I gave you some information about this event itself, what happened, how this event took place, and what, to put it this way, was the most important thing that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, through the conduct of the investigations, took place. But of course, the art of doing it, it has a lot of exceptions to these equipment, it will have to give an answer in the sense that this crime is fully enlightened in a way that has the right insight into, in fact, as prepared, negotiated this criminal act, whether there are organisers in terms of the background of the execution of this crime, whether there are incentivists, whether there are persons who recruited him to commit this crime and ultimately whether there is someone who financed this crime, because it is terrorism. And BiH's Criminal Law predicted and sanctioned funding and assistance as well as, you saw what I was saying earlier, and recruiting for the execution of this crime. You saw, I said more, uh, it's an extremely large amount of documentation in terms of art. Look, I mean, it seems to me to me that only one person has been excluded about eight cell phones and of course it takes a lot of time and time, to say, to report all communications, contacts, conversations, time to make one mosaic. And simply for us, the work has been done, so that is, the work is complete, means the work is done, it is very important for us to come to the background of the crime itself, to see if there is in any sense an organization that designs, encourages and finances terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we, together with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, will give an answer to that question. And I don't mind if you get as detailed as that after the investigation's over. The Izvršioc is deprived of his freedom and, of course, there will be no prosecution of that person. So much for me right now about this first event in Zvornik. And now, since the Council of Ministers' conclusion later appeared, because after that, just a moment, just a moment after that or more precisely, I will now just say, in 06.05.2015, the Ministry of Republika Srpska conducted one, I would also say, a criminal prosecutor's or prosecutor's investigation on grounds of suspicion that there is a certain number of persons in Republika Srpska or in the area of Republika Srpska that can be brought into contact with terrorism, provoking terrorism, inciting terrorism, recruiting persons for terrorism, or that there is a certain number of people who can be reasonably assumed to be exposed to radical, violent, I would cancer, one radicalism. So on 06.05.2015, at the orders of the BiH Special Prosecutor's Office, the Republika Srpska Ministry conducted a search of apartments, other premises and mobile items at a total of 32 locations in Republika Srpska, depriving 32 suspects from freedom. After examining these detained persons, 16 persons were released immediately, while the other persons were brought to the BiH Special Prosecutor's Office, uh, pardon the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office, and the Special Prosecutor's Office submitted a proposal to the District Court for the establishment of incarcerations for these 16 persons. The judge suggested that the prosecution be detained for 8 persons. The court, to say in, let's make it easier to understand, in the first degree of decision... the judge for the previous proceedings has accepted 6 motions for detention, and after appeals to these suspects the detention of four persons has been lifted, so that a total of 2 people remain in custody, and everyone else is released. I have, and we have also delivered to you, an act in which the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office says, that is, that is, their report confirmed that, in the absence of freedom, the questioning of the suspect was conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Republika Srpska, and that all persons who were subject to the work were granted all the rights which 20 have in the course of the criminal proceedings. In this connection, it was confirmed that police officers of the interior ministry, as well as other authorised persons, no one had complaints and complaints from the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office. We, to put it this way, went a little further, so we asked for a number of information and other agencies, we also asked the Intelligence and Security Agency for a number of information and data, which they said that a number of persons treated with this action were found and controlled and recorded in the intelligence and security records of the action(s). Like people who come from the position of violent radicalism. and, or it's about people who are fond of selefism. After that, I am telling you about this because we received this information from the Special Prosecutor's Office and since the prosecution carried out this investigation and that the police acted in accordance with the prosecution's order, and that all investigations were carried out on the basis of the orders of the BiH District Court. We discussed at the Council of Ministers on this in a certain way and one, in another part, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has also been given the obligation or task of compiling and collecting certain information, information from the point of view of possible injuries, so I say, human, civil, rights related to the implementation of this action. I just want to pass on this... and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has made up this information that was submitted to you in support of this act and the minister will probably have something to say, you are in a certain way familiar with it. But I want to say one thing only, that from the point of view of the formal and legal acts all the conditions were met, so there was an order of the prosecution and the police acted in accordance with the order of the prosecution and there was, therefore, orders of the court and the police acted in accordance with the orders of the Court. Is there any possible over-authorization in the course of this action, whether it was, to say the least, some other kind of demeanor, the endangerment of some human rights, here I was proposing to the Council of Ministers, but it wasn't, it didn't come to the conclusions, but here I'm going to tell you, that maybe this information or the conclusion can be directed, to remove all the dilemmas, so that we don't politicise about this case, so that we don't give these any political connotations that I can, to tell you, after they calmed down the tensions as much as they were, that they were very, very, to say so, tensely, uspanised, I was in Zvornik that night, you had the feeling all gone out, it's all dark, it's all on the verge of doing something. But I have to say, despite certain inflammatory political statements that were fired that night or that night, which could in some way provoke some kind of provocation for some kind of incident, again thanks to a certain number, again to say, political statements and some, some, and above all local leaders there, invited people to calm down the situation, not to take any action on their own, especially not in terms of any rematch and revenge and to leave themselves exclusively to the institutions, here I say, in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina to investigate this case and to give the right answer to this question, and that no one in any way takes, to say so, justice in their own hands. And that situation has calmed down. And I said that we might have maintained this one-now climate that goes towards, yes, of course we should investigate and see, if someone overstepped any authority, abused it in any way, but let's see, let's see if this information was sent to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, within which there is a disciplinary prosecutor, etc., so let's find out whether the court or a special judge who brought the order or the prosecutor who was giving the order in the case had sufficient quantum of reasonable doubt that there was a suspicion of this criminal act and that then we say, okay, the judge had had enough reasonable doubts delivered earlier and gave his right to his public prosecutorial decision. Okay, the order was in accordance with the law, the order of the Court of Justice to search was in accordance with the law. In my opinion, it was an answer, simply not to calculate and not... we here, so here's the incompetent, I mean from that point of view, is it, though, to be competent from that aspect of the point of view you have to have, I don't know, passed a judicial exam, you have to do this, you have to give to people, to investigate whether it was, whether it was done in accordance with the law. And of course with all the other possible overruns, let me put it that way, the powers if there were. 21 So there's no need to protect anyone in any way in this, and here it may have been my suggestion, or perhaps in the best possible way, to resolve this situation. I don't know if I've gone too far. Am I taking too long? This one, but I might have wanted to say, here's a chance to talk about terrorism and terrorism, if you agree as a House of Representatives here to give, to put in charge, here's the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make one piece of information about all the terrorist acts that have been so qualified so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that it was, we forget it from the Anđelić family, from this second, third, I don't know which case, so that here in this place we're talking about, let me say, one more serious way about terrorism and the problems of terrorism they have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think, in my opinion, I'm saying this from the position of the Minister of Security here, in the best sense, I'm not... I'm talking about all types of terrorism or the appearance of terrorists, so wherever they happen, wherever they happen, and in whatever way, we say that, and we confess to ourselves here, first of all, that we have a problem of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because then we'll definitely be able to identify ourselves and thus give one strong political support to agencies and justice related to the fight against terrorism. We are currently working on a new State Anti-Terrorism Strategy and it will go in two directions of police and prosecution activity is delayed activity, you already have a criminal act, whether it is in preparation, whether it is attempted, whether it is done. But I think that we must engage in the fight and the problem of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina to include a wider social community, to primarily go towards, to determine activities towards deradicalisation of local communities, groups and individuals in which it advocates and recruits. There are even certain projects that we've been offered and, let's say, that will be supported by considerable, substantial financial resources and we'll go into these, we'll drop them on the way to the NGOs, the police and the prosecution in that preventive sense don't have much of a role to play, let's go down and try to work here. The other thing, the same question arises, I say, we had this conference now in Tirana, very, very, very, very, very, very interesting, in which a very full solution was offered, and I want to tell you now, I want to take this opportunity to tell you where the representatives of the religious communities from the region were here, was also a representative from the Interreligious Council of ours here from Bosnia and Herzegovina and where we talked about the roles and roles of religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I would especially like to potentiate the role of the media in deradicating our space. I think the media, I'm talking primarily about public services, don't contribute to deradicalisation, but rather live from sensational news here that can be associated with terrorism, so you'll see in Paris when the first information is the most sensational news that the bullet was from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that in London the boot was from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, is nothing at all important, the niche from the point of view of terrorism doesn't matter, nothing about terrorism is saying. Or what to say about Kalashnikov then? The whole world, all the terrorists in the world are at war with Kalashnikov and of course it's not, but there's not enough to say, in that educational sense at least at public service, here I am saying it's my opinion, a show that would go towards deradicalization. And to conclude, I assure you, of course with your support and the ambience you create, and for now we have a good environment, a pretty good environment, that we will certainly win, I have said it on purpose several times, a handful of thieves, criminals and con artists who want to destroy life and the safety of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina through radical, non-civilization and violence methods. Here, if there are any questions, I'm ready, I'll be there. I apologize to the chairman and to all of you if I've taken too much of your time. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6423	Thank you, Minister. It's an important topic. You said how much you felt you needed to talk. I didn't want to interrupt because I think we're discussing an extremely important topic today. Ms Semiha Borovac, the minister of human rights, refugees and displaced persons at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6424	Dear Chairman, respected members of the House of Representatives College, honourable MPs. Here, in some ways, dear colleague Mektić gave an introduction to this information and reporting, and I would just like to point out that I would like to make one point for this information, namely the information of the Ministry of Human Rights and the refugees from the aspect of the human rights threat to the return population, to draw your attention to the honourable MPs that the Council of Ministers' conclusion, which we were working on, was just conceived on the basis of the events following the terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station and, in view of the police action, "Ruben“ from the aspect of the human rights threat to the return population during this action. As the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees received just this kind of task, we immediately referred it to us, so immediately the next day, following a meeting of the Council of Ministers for Requests to the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office and towards the Republika Srpska Ministry to provide us with information with an emphasis, as you have seen in the information, from the aspect of the security and threat of human rights of the return population due to information in the public that there has been concerns, uncertainty about these particular populations in the areas where the action was carried out. At the same time, information came to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees from Medžisla Islamic Community and from Srebrenica, Tuzla, Tacajniča, Rogatica, Ustigoline, Vlasesnica, Kozarca, Banja Luka, Bosnian City, Derventa and Prnjavor, and mainly in the information was transferred to what these information contained, and mainly related to the concerns of most returnees over the arrests and searches carried out by the Republika Srpska MUP, and especially because they did not have, that the families of those taken had no information where family members were taken. Afterwards, through public information funds, the chief of the Srebrenica municipality who expressed concern about the arrest, especially in Srebrenica as one environment where there is a lot, as an environment where there are many returnees. And given the sensitivity of this particular return population, he addressed the public and presented certain facts regarding the arrest of Rama Kadrić from the village of Gladovici, 40 km from Srebrenica. Due to the situation and the task received by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, representatives of the ministry visited the municipality of Srebrenica, held talks with the chief, and then went to the Rama Kadrić family in the village. As you have seen from the information we have done, the interview was conducted with members of his family and neighbors who found themselves in the courtyard of his house, so we have indeed been convinced of what has been transferred, through this information from other places, and for Srebrenica itself and the way in which it was described to the representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights how this arrest occurred and how it was carried out. This is precisely stated in the information where it is said that between 15 and 15 police officers participated in the arrest of one of the rednecks, that there were objections to what they found in the house – as membership cards of the Islamic community, questions that were referred to why Mother Kadrić is wearing a headscarf, so traditional costume, it was nothing unknown about that environment. 23 And the simple conclusion of the one that we have acquired is that the inhabitants of this, and of Srebrenica, and of this area where we have been, were really afraid and concerned about such a situation. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, along with the chief, immediately condemned at the meeting with representatives of the return population, every terrorist attack and everything that is related to him but of course also has an obligation as a ministry of respect for human rights and the dignity of every person in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time after this visit, we also received information from the Republika Srpska MUP, which only states that the whole situation is run by the Special Prosecutor's Office, and that we will get this special... information from them. And in Republika Srpska's Special Prosecutor's Office, as stated by the distinguished minister, we received at the same time the same text of information. All of what we had the opportunity to see and hear from the media, during the “Ruben“ action carried out in connection with the detainees and persons deprived of liberty, so they are, so it is indeed that finding. This information by the Serbian Special Prosecutor's Office stated that the suspects detained had no complaints about the conduct of police officers of the Ministry of Interior as well as other authorised persons, and that the action was carried out in accordance with the regulations. As our inquiry was a different concept of the Ministry of Human Rights based on these activities carried out by two evaluations, i.e. three assessments, which is that from the competent institutions of the Republika Srpska Ministry and the Serbian Special Prosecutor's Office we did not get detailed information about what we were looking for, which is the impact of the arrest itself on the rural population, also on the basis of the field tour and the facts presented by the returnees, with which the conversation was conducted, has been injured that there has been harassment and fear of the return population, and that this police action has violated their personal and collective security. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees also points to Article 3. The European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms under which any conduct of competent institutions, in particular the police and security forces dealing with law enforcement, must comply with standards in the field of protection of human rights, and in particular the protection of the physical integrity of persons or groups of persons in order to avoid excessive use of force. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees also referred to the need to include the Ombudsman Institution which has the possibility of further activities and the determination of facts according to these performances. As the security aspect, therefore, is very crucial, the security aspect is essential for the achievement of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular the return population of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees calls on all competent institutions and citizens in areas where the Ruben police action has been carried out to contribute to strengthening mutual trust in order to ensure peace, tolerance, co-existence and better respect for national and religious rights and freedoms. So, without going into action at all and what the MUP was doing, we did from the human rights aspect as far as it was in the human rights ministry's jurisdiction, which is that on the basis of the collected, that, on the basis of the complaints received and the requests, we found a certain state of affairs, to assess that situation and a certain recommendation. I think that these assessments and recommendations that we have made, and which the ministers have accepted, indicate the need for truly one great respect for human rights, mutual tolerance and peace, and that we all need to work to build this peace, to stop any hate speech, any impatience, any expressions towards each other of national hatred or intolerance. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6425	I'm calling myself Minister Borovac. Now, if there's no one left from the Council of Ministers, and I see there's no need to speak, we're moving on to the debate of our representatives. It's a big interest in the debate, but here. I call upon Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6426	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers. Here are some information that we have received from the competent institutions and related to this serious crime that took place in Zvornik and, of course, under that impression of a code-named "Ruben“. I am truly happy that this kind of debate was not conducted as soon as the tensions were raised because we would debate here all day, we would only argue and further agree political relations in this Parliament. I thank the Minister for this, and the Minister, of course, for this exhaustive information because what we've received as agents is actually one shura, more police report on these events. Namely, when the murder took place, that is, the attack on the police station Zvornik tensions were raised terribly, not only, here, in a smaller bh entity than in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, certain political officials have contributed to these tensions even more, so they immediately hurried that a burden, a burden of responsibility for the Bosnian-Herzegovina nation, would be removed by a difficult qualification of this crime. That's why I think even our Presidency came out immediately with an attitude – there, it's a terrorist act, etc. Of course, no one can take justice into their own hands and have the right to do so, there are the institutions of the system that need to do their job. And I think here the D.A. actually failed the exam because it shouldn't have happened that, here's the perpetrator, as he was called, Nedim Ibrić or Nerdin, I don't know, he's on his own. It should not have happened that he sees the perpetrator on a daily basis... of his own father, on a daily basis, it should not have happened that in the institutions of the system, so many people who can be brought in connection with the genocide in Srebrenica, that this one-year-old son of the murdered father should not have been left to himself, that they did not act on the prevention of the system institutions, including the social, religious and any other institution. Because such persons are... very suitable for various, as the minister said, radical ideas, for various ideas that may not fit our climate. Therefore, after such an impression, after such an impression... action "Ruben“. And under the impression that the D.A.'s MUP asked the D.A. for permission to arrest Reisu-l-ulem-l-ulema to arrest him, and they'd get approval. And not to mention that the list started with the arrest of people, which, of course, created a terrible fear, especially among the returnees, among the minority people who live there, among those who are unprotected, among those who expect daily that someone will knock on their door, especially in a very unprofessional way, this is what Minister Borvac was talking about, where there were harsh violations of human rights. What are the consequences of that? Look, there's an anecdote, it says -- 33 people were arrested among whom two were found without an abdomen and none unsuspected. That's enough saying, that's enough to say what kind of approach was made by those who ran this "Ruben“ action. Thus, a huge number of searches, home invasions, etc., created a picture, created a sense of fear. You know, you can say now -- well, there have been harsh violations of human rights, no one has complained. Well, in every statement brought in, there's a section there -- here, I declare there wasn't, I don't know, I don't have any objections to police treatment, and you sign it at the 25 police station. To see who would sign it to write there that there were reprisals or repressive measures towards the faces. Therefore, these are illusory things to expect any of them to sign. I know a few of those faces that are members of a hunting society. And here I see in the report as evidence of hunting rifle raids, hunting hats, video cameras, 5 rounds of hunting ammunition cartridges, multiple pieces of sim cards, one tablet, 4 letters, CDs with religious content, etc., etc., to that extreme thing, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, someone's getting in the way of a sham, someone's getting in the way of smoke, someone's getting in the way of this or that, etc. I think a terrible problem has been made in international relations in this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And of course, it will have consequences, it already has consequences, and we will all suffer these consequences. We can put ourselves in the cheerleading role of one, the other, the third or any other party, but we as a nation, as a nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have a problem. It doesn't lead to reconciliation, it doesn't lead, because the way you act is problematic. Niko one argues that the system institutions are doing their job, that they are processing anyone who is the perpetrator of a crime, including the one in preparation, which was spoken of by the minister, etc. So here I want to set up another thesis – what are the causes of all this? Is there any next-door Serbian country around here? Are there any big forces here that wanted to transfer the weight of the problem from Ukraine, here to dissipate a little Ukraine, so that it could be transferred to Bosnia and Herzegovina? Does this event in Kumanov have anything to do with it, etc., etc.? I think that today, in terms of purpose, we should have one cross-section by the Intelligence Security Agency, perhaps not in this configuration, but at least in that commission that's in charge of the Intelligence Security Agency. ... they say – you know, as our people say, when bulls are stabbed by ants. Don't let us get hurt because of the interest of the great forces to transfer the focus of Ukraine's problem to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, of course, I would like to say that this is good, which the minister was saying, that the Council of Ministers will consider a new anti-terrorism strategy in a way that acts preventively, it is too late when evil happens, then we all suffer the consequences. But of course, with a special sense of need, and I have no doubt that our members of the Council of Ministers there will consider it with a special feeling. There is no link between terrorism and only one people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know. It's not terrorism just going fighters to Syria, terrorism is going to the fighters and Ukraine, and you sit down and the other side you know. On the one hand, they bind to Hrvat, on the other hand to Srbin, to go to Syria for Bosniaks, etc. And the problems remain for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina when these people return. So this new anti-terrorism strategy should really be very sensitively prepared, not to get the impression, you know the fight against terrorism is the same in this whole... Europe is an equal fight against Bošnjak in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, that's what I wanted to talk about and, of course, I suggest that perhaps the Commission for Defence and Security, and even this informal Commission for the Control of the Intelligence and Security Agency, consider all this information and that possibly, even after this debate that we're about to have today, propose conclusions in the direction of calming the situation, in the direction of solving the problem, in the direction of preventive action against, here is this monster of the modern world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6427	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6428	Well, maybe, I don't know if it's a replica or a correction to the wrong quote. Mr. Mehmedović here said that terrorism cannot and should not be tied to a people. It's not anyone's intention, and terrorism has neither national nor religious, nor any other characteristic. The victims of this terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the movement behind the terrorist base in Zvornik were also Bošnjak in Bugojn, we are all victims. Niko one identifies the Selafi movement with Bošnjak and Islam in Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not make a switch to thesis. I also think that we should, dear colleague Mehmedović, really look at the cause here. We don't seem to agree on the causes. I don't think that there are any global forces, even less Serbia to cultivate selfism, those who put us here and transfer the crisis. On the contrary, I think that the great powers, primarily here, I will also tell the SDA Embassy openly, but the EU is also very much helping us to cope with a problem that is a global problem. I agree there was a sense of fear, and I believe, I come from the middle where there were arrests in the Ruben action. Everyone was just scared, what were those people afraid of? Well, they were afraid that some extremes would do the same thing either in Srebrenica or Bratunac so that they would suffer there, too, those Bošnjak who live there and the Srbin who live there. I was scared when someone close to me was arrested because he was a member of the Selafi movement, wondering if he was gonna throw me in front of the bomb building tomorrow. My neighbors were afraid of the Bošnjak coming into my house because they didn't want that to happen. And no one here, and no one's intention here is to accuse any people. I repeat, this is a global problem that we cannot identify with any religion or any other people. After all, both Bošnjak and Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as Srbin were victims of the act.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6429	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6430	Well, look, an opinion may be the addition of this replica of distinguished colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. In fact, I've just set the stage so that a new anti-terrorism strategy doesn't get into that trap, because we have to look at it comprehensively. If I could see with my own eyes that there was a Ravnogorje Chetnik movement with weapons and with everything that they say, characteristics that give fear to the returnees, then there's no avoiding that question. We need to talk openly about all the issues, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina where we all live together. Therefore, we must put in place all possible, all possible threats that can come, all the causes of fear. That's one thing. The second thing, you all know that the Republika Srpska government pays a self-proclaimed counterterrorism expert, Dževad Galijašević, and that 2,700 marks of salary, has a good salary, only to spread disinformation, fear, and I don't know what everything, but mostly aimed at Bošnjak. Is that a contribution to calming the situation? It's not. So you pay a man to make a mess. The causes of the Ruben action, I was talking about it, as the media declared that there was a Selefi centre in Cerska. So they all went there, saw, there's nothing. What's that supposed to mean? Does this contribute to the spread of fear and to the creation of psychosis and to the rise of tensions? Not to mention the sheet, and I don't know, the medium that specifically preceded it, which before anything happened, was talking about the center, the Selefi center in Cerska. Well, it does or it doesn't. So we have so many agencies, 27 we pay so much, and cops, authorized officials, spies, and I don't know what, whether there's a center or not. Therefore, I ask that, indeed, I am completely relieved to discuss these matters, and I would like Bosnia and Herzegovina to be a country that is desirable for life, in which we all feel comfortable, not constantly raising tensions on this side or on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6431	Thank you. Please take care of the weather, so the discussion is 10 minutes, the replica is 2 minutes, and I will warn anyone who comes out of that box. Mr. Mirsad Mešić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of security problems, we need to understand that this is the most significant global issue in the world today and that it is looking for a very serious response that involves an indivisible security area, both in the world and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will begin my presentation with concerns in part of the stage of the distinguished Minister Mektić and Minister Borovac. The Social Democratic Party, before I say, does not accept any form of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on any territory, and does everything to commit Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities to seriously, professionally and responsibly address all security measures, or security problems, as well as terrorism. What concerned me about the appearance of the gentleman, Mr. Mektić's report, is the fact that Mr. Mektić is calling for MPs to propose to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council whether the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office has overstepped its measures. I'm concerned about that, Mr. Mektić, which is not the conclusion of the Council of Ministers without then making up conclusions at the session itself and you certainly have no right to these conclusions, so... to propose one of the ministers. Otherwise, about your serious approach to this problem, I've learned a lot. And the second fact that I was worried about the presentation of Ms. Ministerial Borovac is the fact that the Republika Srpska MUP did not deliver what you asked of them. It is very important, it is very important that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we train all security agencies, whatever they are called, to start with a roof security institution called OSA and which collects, process and deliver information to the competent authorities, set up an effective mechanism. It remained unclear to me that Mr. Dodik said on the night of the attack that there was no knowledge of a possible terrorist attack and that again you and the directors of the agency claimed that there was an announcement. This says we don't have a unique security environment. However, Republika Srpska's president later admitted it in a way that has diminished that information and, as they say in Bosnia, it is smart enough to say that there is some kind of danger. What worries me, too, Mr. Mektić, is that at this point an individual act of a desperate act, of course, can cause so many problems to a police station that knew there was a direct danger of a terrorist attack and that mindless, or I don't know what to call it, manages to perform a miracle at the police station. This concerns me with the aspect of the training of our police forces so that I can meet 28 complex challenges such as terrorism. I'm worried about the police's equipment. You said in your report that the officer's gun was failed, and then what are we talking about? So we have a problem with people's training, we have a problem with equipment, and that's a context where we have to discuss it because all this is a story told and now we need to focus on how these things don't happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A good part, Mr. Chairman, is the responsibility of this Parliament. So look at our relationship with the OSA Supervisory Commission. Here, we don't have it, we don't have it six, seven months after we've established ourselves. And this OSA Labour Control Commission is actually tasked with determining whether it works under the law. And basically you know it, Mr. Mektić, it all starts with them. If we don't respect them, if we don't control them, then all the story's gone. It's not all that, of course, black. I must also point out this occasion with great pleasure to apostrophe of the role of Chief Zvornik, called Stevanović Zoran, who, as Minister Mektić said, with his wise, rational calls, on a night that could have been a disaster for Bosnia and Herzegovina, managed to make a contribution called... the situation. So it was one of the real exceptions, unfortunately, in that night that made a great contribution. And as far as I'm concerned, I give this gentleman my terms of respect. How important this is and how important it is in Parliament to talk and urgently form, of course, and the Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence Agency, it is seen from the fact that the previous country... is student unrest in Pristina which... have led to the fall of one such country. We are a much smaller country, burdened with major problems and security or security problems certainly require that in the coming period thematically discuss this and bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions to carry out the tasks entrusted to them professionally and responsibly. Otherwise, we come to major problems that can result in very, very unexpected events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6433	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6434	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, respected ministers. Here, and I will give this discussion a small contribution to this very important topic in Bosnia and Herzegovina after this event that took place in Zvornik. I think we need to separate this information in the right sense. First information, this attack on the Zvornik Police Station is a classic security problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while Republika Srpska's police action is then a clear issue of the threat to human rights of returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm going to talk today and share this information the way I said it in the introduction. Once again I condemn this, here's what Mirsad Mektić said.A terrorist act on a police station in Zvornik and the murder of a police officer at the police station, Đurić. This is not the first attack in Bosnia and Herzegovina to happen and have these characteristics. Unfortunately, the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is divided as well as police stations depending on where they come from in the treatment and qualification of such and similar attacks. Let's just remember a series of similar attacks on returnees when the process of returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina began. Remember the murder of Murat Badić in Banja 29 Luci, remember the murder of the girl Durić in Vlasenica, the day of the anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, the attack on the police station in Bugojn, the attack on the US Embassy, the murder of the Croatian family Anđelić in Konjic before Christmas or at Christmas, and this last attack, the attack on the Zvornik police station. Some I know less about, some more, but the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is mostly known to have been or have occurred these attacks, and I certainly haven't counted all of them. After Bugojna, the state also stood up to the feet and police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I may be the only one today who understands Minister Mektić, who today submits a report on this very important issue in our country, and that man has absolutely no authority whatsoever. He can only read what the police agencies are delivering to him if they have the courage to send him real information or reduced information about this event. Following the event in Zvornik, there were statements from very senior officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina who immediately raised tensions in Bosnia and Herzegovina -- Špirić, who says terrorism has support in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dodik, who says there is no will among the Bosniak elite to counter terrorism, Košarca, who mainly tied this terrorist act to the Bosniak people. I would like to point out here that there are police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose competencies are clearly prescribed. The jurisdiction over acts of terrorism has entities and state agencies. No Bošnjak manages any police agency, a police agency that has jurisdiction over acts of terrorism, neither entity nor state. There's no reason for any one, or obstacle, to not sanction anyone who's brought into contact with these crimes, in the way it's prescribed by law. I was one of those guys who was, let's put it this way conditionally, close to these events in Zvornik. And indeed what the minister said was, very much, felt in the air a very ugly atmosphere that could at any moment create a problem that might not be able to go back. I'm sorry that with Minister Mektić right away in Zvornik, he wasn't with him and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. He had to be there, and Zvornik is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After Bugojna, there were similar activities by the ministry that continued, here let me say so, and after I left. Various conclusions, various strategies, various initiatives, but unfortunately, when time passes, it's mostly forgotten or not implemented. I will just say that after Bugojna, the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities was sent to the Council of Ministers when Špirić, who was chaired by the SNSD, was shot down. If it had been adopted then it would have probably, or it would have been possible to be different, and I'm sure we wouldn't have any problem with this black, gray, but as they call it, the lists around Manival. In 2010, following terrorism in Bugojn, the BiH Ministry of Security asked the police in Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish a working group to make a bill on the fight against terrorism. Only the Republika Srpska MUP said such a law is not needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have this act here somewhere where the Republika Srpska MUP refuses to participate in the adoption or creation of such a law. So he says -- we are opinions, and it is the position of the Republika Srpska MUP that the adoption of the law set out in your Act of Relationship is unnecessary, and that these issues can be regulated legally within the framework of existing laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever wrote this act thinks terrorism has its limits and nations. He doesn't have it and he can explode at any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the region, and if you want to continue, because it's a global problem. And I can read other initiatives here, too, but since I want to say a few sentences about this second action, I will end up with this, only I can join what Mr. Mešić said, that the key role in Zvornik played I can say, my good friend, Zvornik chief, Mr. Stevanović and I also want to give him congratulations from this pay phone. 30 When it comes to this other one,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6435	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6436	Here I will try another minute, since I have no time, another action conducted by the Republika Srpska MUP...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6437	But the time, Mr Ahmetović, please, is ten minutes of discussion limited.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6438	Can I just say one sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6439	You can, of course, say, finish your thought, feel free to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6440	"Ruben“ or "Ruben" action is also problematic in terms of human rights because it is said to be a tribe in translation of this word. And indeed after the words of the interior minister after the action in Zvornik, I expected that he did, and that the Bošnjak in Republika Srpska are treated in this way, which in principle is neither anyone nor who cares about them, because they are different in Republika Srpska, and those in the Federation have completely forgotten them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6441	Thank you. I'm asking you one more time not to put me in trouble, try what you have to say to put me in ten minutes. The debate, therefore, is not limited, it is limited only to the Rules of Procedure, so that you do not put me in a position to interrupt you in important terms, it is an important topic. Please, therefore, take the bill, set up everything you have to say in your Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes for discussion and two minutes for replication. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6442	I thank the Honorable Chairman. We have before us one information that contains facts about what happened. What I think is missing from this information, and what we're going to propose here today is to deal with the causes a little bit. I think we lack information from the Intelligence and Security Agency to give us information at all about the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the dangers of terrorism, the spread of radical movements and... citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the side of the battlefield. Because if we want an effective fight against terrorism first, we need to know what we're up against. Whether we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are at risk of five isolated people, or perhaps it has some mass characteristics. I remember a statement from the Director of Intelligence a few years ago, I think, about 4, 5 years ago when he was talking about some 3,000 members of the Wahhabi movement. But let's not assume 31 here and engage in this truly effective fight, and I ask you to support this Parliament's getting that information as well. I hope that today we are all here in this Parliament on the same side and that we should all think the same, to show maturity and responsibility, because without it there is no effective fight against terrorism. I am sorry that Mr Ahmetović came out, he spoke of the insult of the "Ruben“ and the name itself, that Bošnjak are treated as a tribe. If anyone's a critic of the Minister of Lukač, we are critics. But I guarantee you that whoever gave the code name to that action certainly didn't mean the Bosniaks. Because those people who do this can't be identified with Bošnjak and Islam. It's about one movement, whether it's called Selafija, Vehabi or whatever they're called. Don't make that confusion of thesis. What we see and when we talk about the "Ruben“ action, I will read you some information from the Intelligence Service that we have received, which says that the persons who have been detained in this action fall into the category of followers, sympathisers or people who are prone to selephism and that for only eight of them there is no such information. But I'll remind you, even the man who carried out the terrorist act in Zvornik wasn't on the selfie list, on the intelligence list. Somewhere in the meantime, something happened in the meantime. I think that this country must have one strategic approach to combating terrorism, that we must prevent the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from going to foreign wars, that we must provide assistance and identify those who are recruited and get them out of there, that we must prevent the population of these movements. Because unfortunately, and one of my conclusions is also relevant, yesterday we had a trial of Bilal Bosnić, look at every portal and media, published talks, Bilal Bosnić, where he calls to jihad, to the sanctity of the dead in jihad, invites young people to Syria, etc. Of course, we will all condemn it, and none of us and that healthy part of society will accept it. But we also have to accept the fact that one part of the people who's decapitated, who went into extremism, will take that as a population. So you have an amazing number of views of his videos and speeches on you tubes. Like... Zijad Turković also became a hero to a number of delinquents, criminals or whatever you want. And we are therefore asking that the Council of Ministers immediately form a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Impact Group for the fight against terrorism and representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which will make up amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure and other necessary laws and acts, in order to make it mandatory to exclude the public for the prosecution of acts of terrorism, when the statements can act as motivation or propaganda for members of radical movements. We have another problem. Many evidence, at least when it comes to these, terrorism intelligence comes to them by chance, perhaps following some third party, such evidence cannot be used by court without the judge's order for the previous trial. And so it is our proposal, and we ask you to accept it, and once we have had such an initiative in this House, that the evidence that comes to special investigations, without orders from the judge for the previous proceedings, when these evidence concerns the crime of terrorism, can be used. And we expect, if we get support, the Council of Ministers to deliver this amendment to us by the end of July. There is also, someone here mentioned the media. I must say, there is also a media responsibility for the whole situation we've come up with. And if we're going to talk about human rights violations, Mr. Mehmedović said he was a terrorist from Zvornik, his father was killed, a murderer at large. Yes, and the victim's father was killed and the killer is at large. In this case, the victim, the murdered officer Đurić, was on the famous list of 811 people recently published by the agencies. The names of people with birth numbers, their addresses, their parents' names, who, you know, are based on the payroll. Many of these people have never seen Srebrenica in their eyes, but they were members of the Centre of Public Security. There's a man on that list I personally know whose daughter is 10. July 32, '95. She died in Belgrade at the hospital and who, because he did not have as many as possible, transported and buried dead in his car in Šekovici on July 12th. And his name is on the list, they say, is in police structures as the perpetrator of the genocide in Srebrenica, under the allegations. My people, before we crucify someone, I guess we have to have a basic -- proof. These people aren't charged with anything. But we have made such messages and such calls to these people through the media that the man who went astray, who went into extremism, Nerdin, as Ibrić is already named, sees for all his problems the culprit at the Zvornik Police Station, takes the gun, comes and shoots and does what he did. And I am therefore another conclusion that I propose on behalf of our Club, that we call on the Regulatory Agency for Communications to immediately prescribe clear rules for electronic media, which will oblige them to send a clear message of their conviction in the reporting of terrorism, terrorist acts and judicial proceedings. We also want to call on all media, and especially electronic portals, without the intention of of course limiting anyone's freedom, to make sure that their reporting on judicial processes for terrorism does not act incentivically on already vervained persons, and that on their portals they disable comments that spread hate speech and support terrorist acts. I must commend indeed, we all know, we all go to some portals, how many heavy, morbid, horrible we have comments, anonymous, anonymous people, and I must commend what, when it happened in Zvornik what happened, that all the portals have closed the possibility of commenting, so that there is no further spread of hate. And I'm glad they reacted that way, and I'm just asking that he reacts that way in the future. So, I'm gonna go with this and figure out my exposure. Once again, I want to repeat, seeing as some colleagues feel, not to say called out or saying that something is trying to attach itself to one people here, terrorism does not have a national, religious definition. Terrorism is a global problem, Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot deal with it alone. We must fight together with both the region and the whole world. We are who we are, perhaps a little more exposed to it than some other countries in the region, but if we all show willingness, and I believe there is readiness in institutions, that we can defeat terrorism, so that he does not defeat us, as Mr. Mektić says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6443	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6444	Ladies and gentlemen. By agreeing greatly with Mrs Pandurević's move, I have enormous problems to understand the "Ruben“ action, primarily from the aspect of the prosecution's competence, or police forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in Republika Srpska. It's about numbers. The Special Prosecutor's Office's Information says – 32 detained, 16 detained, for 16 wanted detention, detention approved for 2 persons. Is that normal or isn't it? I really doubt it's normal. And we have, therefore, great problems with the training of those who need to fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6445	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6446	Dear colleagues. First of all, let me say that I'm really going to watch out for some of the political, or any of the political qualifications that we're talking about today, because I don't think that this agenda item should have been found here today in front of us. Of course, we asked for some of this, some of this was asked for by the Council of Ministers, we got it today, and we need to talk about it. It's right here, I'm going to start with the very name of this information, which I don't think corresponds to the state of what's written further in the materials, or what's going on, as described in the information from the different institutions that we've received. So here we are, and that's both the D.A.'s office and the SIPA clearly pointed out, so it's about a terrorist attack on a police station in Zvornik and there's no doubt there's no dilemma. Why is it avoided to say that, I don't know, I just know that when a similar event happened in Bugojn that no one had a problem with public and clear saying it was a terrorist act. Yeah, that wasn't our problem back then. We didn't have a problem in Sarajevo either, to say that it was a terrorist act, because it was an attack on the US Embassy. And I don't see why it's our problem to say it in Republika Srpska, and especially if it's so qualified by those who need to qualify for the character of the act. Another thing that does not suit me in my name is the term, the second part that says – and the recent arrest of people in Republika Srpska's space. Then it includes the minister who says -- arresting the returnees. I don't believe anyone there has been arrested as a returnee because he's not in custody because he's a returnee, or not that I don't believe it, but I'm sure he's not. If this is the Information Ministry of Security then the dictionary used in it must be the one that is common in these structures. I think we should stand by bringing in the persons involved in the execution of a terrorist attack. Because that's it. If we write it like this, then we give the secretary the right to say it's about bringing in the returnees, and it's not about that. Furthermore, in this report alone, I have to say that several aspects, especially with these reports that we have received, which contribute to what's going on here. Namely, our ministries are very often delivering reports as individual ministerial reports, not as a ministry report. I would ask the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees to tell us if this is the Ministry's report, or if the College of the Ministry, before this report was delivered here, had this report in front of it? It is a very sensitive issue, and it would be correct that not only this one, but also all other ministry reports, before they come to Parliament to be discussed by the College of the Ministry. Then we would have fewer problems here, and they too would have fewer problems in the Council of Ministers if they did so. Unfortunately, these problems that they have inside or do not have within the ministries are being transferred to Parliament and we are then having discussions here and of course we come to conclusions that we do not need at the very least at this point. Because it can really be challenged by a series of grades from this ministry. Here, my dear gentlemen, if you had come to Zvornik that night when it happened and asked these citizens there, they would have been terribly upset, regardless of their religious and national belongings. Everyone would be upset, even though no one was arrested. But they would be upset about the possible consequences and the possible events that have not happened more thanks to Bog. I guess it's natural for people to be upset when there's any police action going on, including the arrest of those who robbed a bank in a neighborhood. Of course people get upset. But let's not bring it into contact with, in a way that can cause later political problems or other entirely connotations. I don't know if the Republika Srpska Interior Ministry has exceeded jurisdiction. The Ministry doesn't know that either, because only one side heard it and not everything. It was not possible for others to listen because these others did not provide information or provided partial information. So I'm not going to talk about 34 whether or not it overstepped jurisdiction. But I beg you, we've had cases where our accountants are arrested, people with long pipes arrest the accountant and get him into the car. And in that car with the bars, the accountant. I didn't hear the Human Rights Department say it came out with the notion that human rights were violated by those people. Because, look, it says that certain items were found in these people and we see in the Special Prosecutor's Office's report what was all found. Don't use your attitude to identify those people who found the weapon, the automatic rifles, the stings, and I don't know, you identify with the other people who aren't there. And that's exactly what you're doing, that's the attitude you're equating them with, unfortunately you're equating them with those that we can't say that in any way they contributed to what was going on there. And I hope that in future, we will take care of this information, avoid all kinds of political connotations, especially in the ministry's reports, avoid political qualifications and limit ourselves exclusively to facts that come from more than one side. And finally, to finish these ten minutes ago, I don't believe this debate will help solve the problem of terrorism in this country. It won't because the way this theme came in here doesn't make it possible. That's why I support all those who have been thinking about how a special debate should be conducted, but in a completely different atmosphere about this issue, so let's see if we can solve it then. In this way, burdened with these problems, so also with the rights of returnees and with this, I don't think we can make any serious conclusions today and that we will make very difficult and in the future, if in individual cases we are looking for a way to fight terrorism. And I agree with Mr Ahmetović that it was indeed the first evening that was a lot of political statements that were flammable. I wish he had added a statement from Mr Bakir Izetbegović among those he listed because that evening was very, very flammable.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6447	So, we'll take a break from 1:00 to 2:00. Now the word is for the Minister of Security, as I understand it. The minister, when he asks for a word, has the advantage and gets the word immediately, and after that he will have a replica of Mr Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6448	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to, you know, maybe point in some way, sort of fix this discussion. I may have been provoked by what Mr. MP Momčilo Novaković said when he spoke of the real name and qualification of this event, so to speak. It doesn't say anywhere in the SIPA Act that it's a terrorist attack. Here's the act. He writes the object of the attack on Zvornik Police Station, information-delivery. It doesn't say anything in the course. At that moment when we formed this Information, there was not yet a qualification of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And that's why I'm still in the text of the information, I couldn't, I couldn't, I wasn't authorized to give a qualification, but if you take Mr. Novaković, then in my position, here's... I'm saying the 2nd act I'm writing this information about, says - the information about the terrorist attack on Zvornik Police Station, made up by the State Investigation and Protection Agency, and it wasn't about the terrorist, but it was about the attack, I added. And he called his real name, in his opinion. In view of my act 2, 3, 4, 5, operational work on the lighting of the terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station is under way and will take place in the coming period, etc., etc. 35 But behold, look at the stenogram, and you will say that although it was qualified by the D.A.'s decision and in the SIPA act, it was not qualified even in the Prosecutor's Act, and that's what the SIPA Act has on you. That's what I mean, we're just deluding ourselves, the media is following and we're bringing in information that's not true. I want to say that, for the sake of the public and for the sake of everything here, you were wrong to say this qualification that the Ministry of Security made the information, I listened very carefully to you, so I said, the Republika Srpska Ministry is bringing in a person in the Republika Srpska area, that this is not a termological normatively legally well said, that we should have told them that they were brought in because they committed a terrorist act. There's no "Ruben,“ you said, there's a stenogram, here I'm asking you to take a stenogram, we've been commenting down here, there's no "Ruben" connection to a terrorist attack. And the third thing, while I'm a minister and I'm responsible, there's no college to dictate to me what I'm going to write, and there's nowhere to be dictated to me by my college. If I bear the responsibility of both political and moral and criminal, then I want what I sign to be my position, not some college where there are twenty people. So what I should do, in order to agree, I would have to bring the Rules of Procedure to the College, I would have to bring a way to vote in the College, etc., etc. I don't know where it's supposed to be that way for me to work as a minister. And here I'm telling you, I mean just like we're talking, we're even from Prnjavor, a stenogram, you'll see that you said you were detained, you should say they're being arrested for a terrorist attack. And it wasn't, it was a completely different action. Thank you. I apologize to the chairman, can you free me at 1:00, I'm supposed to go on a business trip, and I'd like to invite the deputy to be at the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6449	Of course, thank you Ministers for attending the session. You know, I think with this kind of address to Parliament, the deputy will be a person who will be able to meet the obligations that the Paralment will require, and you are doing your job. Next, the replica Mr. Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6450	I'm sorry to have to say a few sentences to my colleague Novaković. Indeed, if they had made a list of those who had responded, they would have been more protracted after this crime in Zvornik and the sentences which were spoken, and had no one thought of the safety of the returnees, or of those, or of the Srbin in Zvornik. And so now I'd have to explore the Internet... whom everyone, uh, could count. But when it comes to over-authorization, it is certain that all those who know Bosnia and Herzegovina and its tradition and what lives therein are the Muslims, Catholics and Orthodoxs. You can't ask a man why his mother's covered. Because she has the right to be covered. And another override of the authority that's obvious and nobody's going to say. Republika Srpska police acted on intelligence from the Republic of Serbia collected when it began to return to Republika Srpska's space. Then all those who led the return were treated as the prosecutors wrote in their order. And they're all arrested. People who have nothing to do with these crimes. Of course, if there are those involved in these crimes, I am building on it and calling on all agencies, the judiciary and the court to act in accordance with the law and... Thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6451	Thank you. Now the word asks before Mr. Novaković... (?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, yes, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, the replica, and afterwards will speak Mr. Mladen Bosić, after which we will take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replica has the advantage, of course I'd give priority to the vice president, but here's how he gave it to me, then I will. I have to say, I'm really reluctant to go into the controversy right now with the minister about this. So, I made it perfectly clear, so when it comes to the term to instead of the term – people, I would, instead of the term – people, use a term – persons who are being associated with the execution of a terrorist act. Why? So, I made it perfectly clear that he would separate the returnees from those who were brought into contact with the terrorist act. So he doesn't even them up. And that's what I said in my explanation. Whether the minister will respect it, so I've got it written here and I've read it. So you'll find it in the stenogram, because I read it from here where I wrote it. The second thing, Mr. Minister, here I have the material that has been delivered, which is the material of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which on its 2nd page says - searches have been carried out to find evidence and objects that are being brought into connection with the execution of the crime of terrorism in Article 201. KZBiH and on that occasion, etc., etc. So, please, and say now what's been collected, found, and I don't know, after what happened in Zvornik. I didn't make up that term, I don't know what terrorism is. What terrorism is, I don't know, probably 70% of us here, talking about how it's defined, and not terrorism what we think, terrorism is probably what Amerikanac and the EU think, whether we like it or not. As for Mr Ahmetović, you really weren't when I discussed it, so of course you understood some things in your own way. I've made it perfectly clear that I don't know if there's been an overrun or not, because I really don't understand these police methods, but I believe the police of Republika Srpska. That's what I said when it comes to overruling authority. Why? Because the report says there were no objections, so then. I think it's responsible when someone writes it. If it had been written by any ministry here, I would have held it responsible. So people are responsible, I guess, when they write something in public. I apologize for these 52 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6454	Thank you very much. The word has the vice-president, Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6455	Thank you, Chairman. So we here in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a lot of problems. One of those problems is the danger of terrorism. Any running away from the problem will get us into a deeper problem. I have to say, from this debate here today, it feels like we don't have the willingness to accept the fact. Not because of what happened, but because something much worse happened. I see that, in some ways, through the name of this document, it tries to avoid the word terrorism, probably because it is thought to be attributed to the Bošnjak. And that doesn't matter. What do you think this man who committed that act had a wrapped gun around him, I don't know, 20 kilos of explosives. Then would you say it's terrorism? He accidentally brought the gun because he had it. So let's not look for euphemisms, try to cover up what we used to be. I'm sorry we put two debates together under one debate. So the discussion about people's treatment in detention and investigations is a whole different matter than what we were supposed to discuss. And this debate was launched on my initiative the day after that act, to postpone the session and put the agenda on the next point on the terrorist act in Zvornik. It is subsequently asked to extend it to this other part. And what we got in response has nothing to do with what the Parliament is looking for. Here from Parliament has gone a completely different name and a completely different qualification of this work. And that answer shows that someone is trying to reduce the weight of the work. One man died, one man died, one man died, another man could die a lot more. We're talking about what might happen next time. We're not talking about terrorism related to Bosniaks. Well, a few days ago, they were calling for a terrorist act to kill political figures in Republika Srpska. It says the Black Hand organization is calling for the killing, as far as I don't know which head. And I'm among those people. And then the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska conveys it as the main news. And how many disturbed people in Bosnia and Herzegovina do you think need some trigger to seek their anger and create something that makes them think they're going to be written down in history? So that's our common problem. It is not a problem of this case, it is not a problem of Zvornik, it is not a problem of Republika Srpska, it is not a problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is our common problem. And that's why I'm calling on everyone to concentrate on how we're going to make it impossible for something like this to happen in the future. Well, look what happened in Banja Luka. Here, today we have an invitation to discuss the provocation of Sejfudin Tokić, by detaching the flag in Banja Luka. Well, it's a meaningless event. And you see the weight in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life. Like you said, I don't know who said, so one flag here was a cause of murder in Sarajevo. Also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a single flag can make an accident again and perform miracles. And that's why it depends on us here what the political climate will be and what it will look like in the future. If we're here to heat up the atmosphere and accuse each other of clouding facts and running away from reality, you can expect even more such terrorist acts and I believe with much more serious consequences. So I think that, and I said that right after what happened in Zvornik, that Bošnjak, or Bosniak politicians, are somehow responsible to reduce and worry about how to combat Islamic terrorism. That Serbian politicians are obliged to take care of the extremes in Srbin ranks. So are Croatian politicians. How do you think one of the Srbin could have gotten the right information that such a terrorist act would happen without, say, being a Bošnjak who could have tipped off there was something suspicious, I don't know, in some village near Zvornik. So we have to be together here. If we split up about it, if we look differently at what happened, we'll provoke it to happen again in the future. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6456	Thank you very much. Here's another replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6457	The replica to Mr. Bosić when he said we were running away from facts here today. And it is a problem that we selectively approach facts. So everyone seems to know some of their facts, and he's silent in front of some of the planetary facts. How to speak of accepting or not accepting facts if we still have a policy here that denies the International Court of Justice's verdict on the Srebrenica genocide. The planetary verdict of the UN's highest legal authority. Or the rulings of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which also speak of the Srebrenica genocide. And then we go back to the facts of someone else. So we should really take care of facts rather than approach them selectively. And the second thing, once again, seems to me the second time today, we mention this topic about the flag, the issue of the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the issue of this Constitution. The Dayton Peace Accords, but it is the mistake of a number of politicians here in Sarajevo, I will also say in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have a probossan Herzegovina orientation, which allowed it to become a flag issue. No, it's a question of the BiH Constitution and what's written. Dejton's not a supermarket, taking whatever you want from him. It says that Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its legal existence. So, the legal existence of the Republic of BiH. That everyone buys propaganda, war flag, etc., that's a completely different story. That's why some others are responsible. But you must know that it is an internationally recognised state, a member of the UN and that this Bosnia and Herzegovina, it says in Article 1. The BiH Constitution. If it doesn't say so in the BiH Constitution, here I am withdrawing my discussion immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6458	Thank you very much. Pause until 1400 hours. Please proceed with your work. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, colleagues and colleagues, here I hope the other will join, as we have said, this very important topic of today's agenda, that is, the sitting, and I wanted, as my colleague said, to give one of his contributions to this. Namely, when I was the bearer of the list in the electoral unit where I am and when I was elected here, one of the topics that is mine, and I trust the people of Central Bosnia, for a long time on the shoulders and shoulders is, therefore, some of the events that took place there in Central Bosnia in '97, '98, '99, and so on about this topic, when and when and when the moment and how it is, therefore, to get answers to these questions, that is, those events that happened, and I kept thinking when it was time to say at all. Unfortunately, Zvornik happens and here he opens that story to me, and we're talking about a story about terrorism, about events that have been here for a long time, and here we see that, as we all said today, is a global problem. Namely, why do I say so? Because, in some ways, I was in one place to say I'm 39 and Catholic, and they say in us that you're most credible when you testify to what you're saying. So, now that we don't testify without it going into one-sidedness, that it's not just defending something of our own, that it's representing some kind of global problem, some problem for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we have seen today, so it's exactly how we see it, one of our colleagues from one nation, colleagues from another people. But it doesn't matter, so we just have to tell the truth, and we have to tell what happened, because that's how we lead to a solution, it seems to me. I also have a chance that lately as you have chosen me in this House, I have been honored, to be a member of certain committees, let's say for European integrations or delegations to NATO, where these topics are also, as I say, quite dominant now in the sessions of any kind and looking for certain answers. I also had a chance to say that, in one place recently, it seems to me that when we're looking for a solution even at these levels, I don't feel like I have to be right when we're looking for solutions to these issues and how to stop it, how to fight it, it seems to me that when we're looking for a solution even at these levels, it seems to me that I don't have to be able to approach it, and even today we don't have to blame ourselves, especially the topic, or the point of the agenda, as if a bank robbery had happened, so now we're talking about some other things, we're blurring out at all why we met. However, he said it seems to me Momčilo Novaković and I don't know who else said that the very point of what we call is limiting us because it refers to, I don't know, a concrete event and it also refers to some of the events that followed. And I think to all of us that the topic was, therefore, one general that talks about terrorism, about this phenomenon, about the insecure situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and everything that's going on. So sometimes it seemed to me, so I'm also where I had the chance to say it, somehow the first plan of these discussions puts some sort of social, social situation in some regions, so who's from this social state of the young category of people looking for a way out looking for a foothold, and they go into some kind of story. Although here today, I must admit, it wasn't a story like that, and I'm really glad that it didn't, therefore, as one dominant problem for the appearance of that species, come out on the surface of a social picture, although of course it does. So, if it's a social picture, I told them that one part of the people when they're out of work and he's not solved for life he goes to the EU to look for a job, and the other one who doesn't have a job picks up goes to war in Syria even to lose his life. So obviously that's not the answer, it's not just that the answer has to be somewhere else, to, in that credibility that I'm talking about, it's in that... what we're talking about and therefore the fight against what we want to fight. Namely, why this, why did I make an introduction like this? Because part of the story that my colleagues were telling me today, and they forgot, and I'll take it, they forgot, they didn't remember, so many events were in this Central Bosnia where I came from that if I started picking them up now, believe that it would take me half an hour. So, I'm going to start with the easy ones, under the quotes, lifting up in the church tower, the church bell tower in the Municipality of Travnik, and then I'm going to go towards the harder ones - killing cops, killing returnees, so there were some returnees there, the murder at the end of the Home Secretary, which was the acquisition of his life in part and in Central Bosnia. We don't have an answer anywhere, so we don't have an answer anywhere. When it comes to returnees, I witness what I witnessed, what I saw behind it I can stand, in a return village, so back in '97, '98. the years when the return of the Hrvat occurred then it happened that, stoning and burning houses on the way in to visit their houses and imagine that all of them, the whole bus of those Hrvat was brought to a hearing at the Travnik police station, and they were returnees. So why am I saying that? I'm talking because today we're talking about scaring the returnees, this, this, that, therefore, is probably and certain that it has and certainly is affecting the situation in space. But if we're going to talk about terrorism, if we're going to talk about it, we need to find answers to these questions, we need to find answers to these questions. Down in Central Bosnia, police officers were killed, houses were burned down, it was activated at the police station after that, so since we haven't found the answers to those questions, we've had every few, some new puzzles, under the premise of a riddle. 40 This is a very serious topic, and I want to support, above all, the conclusion that Mr. Emrić suggested, I was kind of thinking that this information today is not enough for us to solve this topic at all. A few conclusions, Miss Pandurević, are also acceptable to me, but we'll talk about that later when we come forward. So we have to get, in my opinion, a clear picture of all the events that smell like it, under the allegations of smell, so that they have elements of terrorism, murder, organised crime, to see where they are, these investigations, what the legal status of these cases are, until we come, why we have no answer. Otherwise, imagine now, we start with the story that it happened, with all due respect, so don't get me wrong, especially one part of my colleagues, so we don't trust the police of Republika Srpska who arrested a number of people with circumstances related to what happened before. So, in the beginning, we don't trust our bodies at all. So, we don't trust the Ministry of Security, or the Ministry, here's this, the evasive and displaced person who spoke, well Mrs. Secretary wasn't at the time when I was saying, so that she might be somehow co-responsible for what seemed to be from that ministry at the time. But we don't trust the institutions right now, and depending on which angle we're talking from, we're going from the position that this body is not doing a good job because it's directed against, let's say, some of my group that I belong to. And we'll never come to a solution. I'm a living witness to what's been going on, I've been watching a cop who's been hit by a bomb, where his body fragments are higher, I'm getting circumstances. So that's what I'm testifying to. We didn't find an answer, he was a cop, he was with a fellow Bošnjak at that house last night, he was wounded in the leg, I don't know if he lost his leg, it's what I'm building on right now. But I saw it with my own eyes. I saw an old man named Babić who was shot through a pillow, and there was an anti-tank mine in a house where there were 20 people, only luck was on the other side of the house, so when it was blown up there was nothing lucky, and there could have been 15, 20 dead. It's not an accident, people, so it's not a robbery, so... tie it up so pull out the ATM and take it somewhere and get the money out of it, we sometimes do it so, so we blur the thing. Now we'll talk if someone from the Republika Srpska MUP is responsible for what he did and violated his powers, so let's give those people first, too, can and groups that want to protect them from some proceedings against the law to see if that's what happened. And at the debates of this kind, we're going to start talking about it now, and we're going to forget why we actually started this story at all. Why did we even start the story? I, as a representative from Central Bosnia now that I'm coming back, so not me, but former representatives, and those before that, so people expect us for years, years, so that's '97, '98, what happened down there, what happened down there, why it happened. It wasn't one case, it wasn't one case, I could list you with thirty cases of individual and common. Mr. Mršo in Bugojn attacked, so his house was mined as a returnee, and he was president of the Municipal Council. Not to remind myself now that I'm not wasting your time, even though I don't consider it a waste of time, and I'm glad that this topic is, here's how I didn't have to open it myself, to give it away. I think what's here, these are the technical data that we mostly 80% knew were so tactically performed and factually, but I need a security position on what it is, what's happening, are we sure, why this is all here? Well, this isn't an individual case, so someone's right about it, so this is something that's organized. Did someone tell us, that someone introduced us to how some colleagues were saying, how it happened I don't know, but they have to give us the answer not to this kind of thing that's been brought in so many hours, what's happening to people, so what's happening to you, where people show up, where they meet, what they do, where they get their guns? Well, we don't have any data, so it's just, I'm at least this one I spent here. I've been looking at some files before, I haven't found an answer. Here, I hope you understand what I'm saying, one part of that problem in Central Bosnia I listed, I hope that in the direction of conclusions we'll get full information. I would just like to supplement Mr. Emrić, that conclusion of his -- if we had time to do it at the 41st session -- we have full information on everything I've been saying, I'm going to support that conclusion, maybe just add a deadline, and of course I'm still suggesting the conclusion. So, first of all, to condemn this act that happened in Zvornik, to express our condolences to the family of the dead police officer and to go with this conclusion, so because we didn't hold a session then, we interrupted her, I think it's at least the right thing to do, if anything else. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6461	Thank you. The word is Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6462	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to join all those who have said that they want to talk about this topic in a way that develops peace, tolerance, understanding, respect, respect, respect, co-existence. I also want to join all those who talk about this topic in a way that we should make a fundamental contribution to the fight against terrorism in this case, but of course to other serious crimes that are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would also like to express my gratitude to all those at the time when the terrorist act of the attack on the Zvornik police station, their statements, gestures and actions contributed to reducing tensions and potential future problems. And there were some others who worked differently, and I don't want to mention them. So, I express my gratitude to all those who have contributed to calming tensions, starting with local officials, to the level of the state, certainly also to the representatives of the international community, and someone has already done so, and I have been planning and I want to mention the Mayor of Zvornik who has made a significant contribution to this. So, I'm grateful for that. I'm also perfectly principled to fight terrorism of whatever kind he was, because I think as a man that, and certainly with little information that I have, I'm sure he has neither the color of the skin, nor the nation, nor the faith, nor the citizenship, and through the short history of our lives as long as we know of all such situations, whether they are made by the IRA or by the ETA or some Red Brigades, all cases in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or some cases in neighbouring our countries, so it's a monster, it's an evil that society institutions need to fight effectively. I have absolutely no dilemmas about that. But it needs to be done in a systematic way, it's my opinion. One, I believe, should identify the causes and reasons, so the strategy, so that we have effective institutions in the fight against terrorism, and the consequence is that when a terrorist act happens, then we have the work of the police, prosecutors and courts leading to the sanctioning of the perpetrators, accomplices, helpers, organizers, financiers and all those involved. Dealing with terrorism in a way I don't think it's a good thing, it is, of course, it's undeniable, it has to be done, but if we want to be more efficient in this business then we should systematically all approach this in the way I think I just spoke. Of course, I accept suggestions and ideas and other people who would lead to a systematic approach to combating these serious crimes. One, I support human rights and freedoms, and then, of course, I support the work of all institutions in the fight against terrorism, even in this consequent form. So, my support to all police agencies, prosecutors and courts is unquestionable, but with one prerequisite for respect for human rights and freedom. That's the first thing. And then this second one, because I believe that all institutions, especially those that apply the law, determine justice, measure, punishment, that those with special philing must approach it by respecting human rights, is whether, and effectively fighting 42 against terrorism and all other crimes. In fact, the state and its institutions cannot fight terrorism or any other type of crime in a way that violates human rights more or less. The state, as prescribed in the European Convention and our Constitution and our laws, must legally fight criminals of any kind. Yeah, they break the law, they commit a crime, but that doesn't mean that then the state can break a little bit of human rights and freedoms or laws in the fight against these serious crimes. Making statements from politicians at such difficult times as committed or terrorism or any other crime, and in a way that they give qualifications to whoever does it, I am now not going to go left or right, nor the level from the local community to the state or international representatives, I find it completely wrong, unfounded, they are not authorized to do so, and legal qualifications can give and should give and should be, and we have to respect, those who are authorized to do so. In terms of investigations and developments, it is the prosecution, and the court in the first-degree and second-degree proceedings. So all those qualifications that the prosecution and the court give me are fully respected. Any legal qualification from politicians of any kind that goes ahead with the prosecutor or the court, I think, is completely wrong and politically, and I think that a kind of pressure on the work of the judiciary is. It's a job of the judiciary and the D.A.'s office, and I think we should let them do it. And when they say it's terrorism, I respect it, it's another crime, I respect it again. And in the end, the court will judge. Here's so much for this first part, first piece of information, a little bit of this, so I read like all of you. The second information concerns the arrest of 32 people after the event of terrorism in Zvornik with the question whether the use of the force, the arrests, these police powers is excessive and whether human rights violations occurred. Of course, I have an attitude about it, but I'm not going to make the first point, but I'm going to analyze the facts and the evidence, so I'm going to beg all of us to draw a conclusion whether it was or not. A little short-term analysis, and I'll see if I can hurry over the time, all the documents, but here's the special prosecutor's office in particular. One, it is undeniably stated here that 32 people have been arrested for suspicion of a crime of terrorism. Doubtful, they suspected 33, so they probably didn't find one of these. The second fact, of those 32 people after a police interview, release 16. What's that evidence? That the police had no evidence that they did or organized themselves to commit the crime. The arrest is when you have evidence, so we all know it under the Law of Police Officers and the laws establishing those agencies, when you have enough evidence and when you need to bring him in to the D.A. and determine the detention and court's criminal charges to confirm or not to confirm it, or if you call that person and he won't respond. So, each of those people if the police had a reason to invite them to come to the police station, so if they don't respond then the police have the right to bring them in. No, they decided on a different variant and the prosecution is, let's go arrest them and as soon as they've had a conversation with them, the police have immediately admitted 50% of the 32 releases, they have no grounds. They decided it, I'm not saying it, it's in this file... Of these 16, which means 16 releases, bringing 16 to the D.A.'s office, the D.A. is having a conversation, and after having a conversation of those 16, 8 releases. So the D.A. admits that there's no reason to keep the next 8 on you and look for a measure of detention, but lets them go – go home. These are 3/4 of 32 arrested, where they confess to their actions that they were wrong. Then for 8 they seek detention, and then the court says, "No, for 6 there is a reason, and for 2 there is no reason. So two more let go home. Then those six complain, and then the second-degree court again, and it's all in... The RS respects four complaints and only two remain in custody. We don't see the traits... of the crime they did, I don't know what it was, I won't, I don't doubt it, but the police and prosecutors in Republika Srpska arrested 32, interrogated, released, and released again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6463	Time. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6464	They've extended custody, and in the end there's only two left in custody. Now I ask all of us - if the organ arrests 32 people and releases 30 and only 2 per court decision remains in custody, is this about excessive use of force and are human rights being violated? Since it's time, I'll respect it, so here's the short cut, so 6-25% of those detained in custody of 32 arrested. I support, therefore, discussions and proposals on the conclusions of respected ministers, Mektić and Minister Borovac, and I propose that as House we plead: To call for respect for human rights and freedoms, and to require all institutions to implement and respect them. To support the systematic fight against all forms of terrorism and other serious crimes, in order to identify the causes and reasons of terrorism, a strategy to fight terrorism is established
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6465	Time, time, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6466	Just to finish my conclusions, can I please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6467	So take care when you're having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6468	Not just about the consequences. The third is the conclusion, the proposal of the esteemed Minister Mektić – Let us consider that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council will review the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court on the decisions of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office under this police action, Ruben. To task the Ministry of Security to draw up complete information on all terrorist acts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, together with the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, to inform us as far as it came with the processing of these acts. And we call on the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ombudsman to see possible violations of human rights and freedoms in the implementation of the Ruben police and prosecutorial action. And I'd like to ask the esteemed...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6469	Okay, well, it's time, Mr. Rančić, you've almost two minutes longer, please don't. Sit down, please, don't apologize but respect the time. Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić, please. _________(?) 44 [[no microphone turned on]] I apologize, Mr. Lovrinović's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6471	So here's the thing, dear fellow, is clear evidence, so today, he's right, we're talking about the point of the daily... so I'm wrong. I want to talk about a subject far beyond this, so this is the report on the work of the Republika Srpska MUP or at a concrete event, etc. Although that's how the subject is set, and I'm just about now, so what we wanted, which is what one of my colleagues said today, and what we got. Why don't we have reports like the Foreign Movement and Stay Agency? Why does it happen that in Central Bosnia, 500 students are enrolled in private colleges waiting, so confirm, were they able to ratify their documentation by which they were enrolled? Why don't we have that information, what happens, how they get in, who, what organizations do they get here in Sarajevo, where they send them, how they light them? Well, that's the story of the security situation. This is a specialized topic, and it would be best if we hadn't spread this topic or talked about it, but just talked about what the Republika Srpska MUP did at some point and possibly, not to be misunderstood, about what happened in Zvornik. So, it doesn't make any sense, let's see what we're going to do from this topic, if we're ever going to get concrete information that we can make the right conclusions and react in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6472	Replica, Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6473	So I'm going to admit a little bit, so this is a business right to use the time a little bit of quotes, so let me say the thing, and here's the line, which I didn't say there, so I did exactly stick to the points of the agenda and the materials that are there, I don't have any others, I didn't make them up, and what I got analyzed them, that's what they say. And for a reason, so I've analyzed all of these. You see when the SIPA submits a report, they say finely there – we have a suspicious face and we invited him to talk, they did not arrest him, but they sent a fine invitation – please be my guest. If he hadn't come, they'd have the right to arrest him, because it's a police authority, right, under the SIPA Act and by the Police Officers Act. But in the end, through the proposal for a conclusion, I tried systematically to put up with this problem and what I think and I propose and expect from this House, from the second House, from Parliament, from the government, from all agencies, to systematically approach this to be effective in the fight against terrorism. This piece of work has worked for us, it's just a light motive for us to come up with a system solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6474	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6475	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, honored guests. So, this topic, the topic of terrorism is certainly a broad topic and it deserves attention, not only of the Parliamentary Assembly but of all of us who are at any place and of course of all those who perform responsible functions here in Bosnia and Herzegovina today at all levels of government. Therefore, I do not think that this debate should be taken into account by the report of the Minister of Security and the Minister for Refugees 45, is this far, far-reaching issue, for which the Presidency of BiH and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, has been responsible, in order to give this issue exactly the importance that many of the debaters have been talking about here. If we can only narrow this down to the mere information that we've received here, the way it's prepared, then surely we won't find a quality answer to a question called terrorism. And this question is present in the world at all in the last eight to ten years, and this is something that is not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is far wider and the question is how many structures that are even fighting terrorism are trained to fight terrorism. Therefore, in my view, this kind of topic should be considered in a way that simply gives this issue exactly the importance that belongs to him in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the assessments that were heard here that this was an event, that there was an attack here, a terrorist act, etc. In my opinion, I would like to ask the House of Representatives, among other things, that we, and already a large number of MPs have spoken out, should be fully determined when it comes to the terrorist act in Zvornik, so the Parliamentary Assembly itself finds, says it is a terrorist act, do we have a clear report from the competent institutions that said it was a terrorist act. Don't let us minimize acts of terrorism, especially only two, but only one has committed a terrorist act here, and three thousand potential terrorists are moving through Bosnia and Herzegovina, one has carried out a terrorist act. Don't minimize it, don't bring it down, as some have discussed here, to hunting society. It's not a hunting society problem, this is about the person who executed the terrorist act with a hunting rifle for whom the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska was approved. So that's how things are, so are the facts that are written, I'm just talking about what I got as a written act here that was delivered to us. I cannot talk about issues that have also been discussed in a number of MPs on human rights violations until the competent institutions have carried out the procedure of whether there have been violations of human rights. Not on the basis of insight that he made by visiting, this one, which was done, is said to be on the basis of a tour of the terrain. Based on the tour of the terrain, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a violation of human rights that is determined, but based on the procedure carried out. And only after the procedure has been carried out can you conclude that there has been or has been no violation of human rights. I have no intention of running away from any kind of responsibility, but I believe that there are those here who need to be far more concerned, especially when the conclusions are being sent, and I hope that these are the conclusions that have been determined by the colleges and not by any of the individuals. Next, when it comes to what is mentioned here very often, the question of a terrorist act and a returnee. People really don't make sense to connect these two things. Returnees have a problem with terrorism, like all other people living here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, they're more of a terrorist issue than anyone else, and they have, to say the most of the consequences, and they're against terrorism. And equating returnees and terrorists is indeed a disaster, and bringing into any kind of, kind of level, let me say, these two things are really something that I think here when it comes to this report that we have just referred to that the returnees have had serious problems because of the terrorist act. And as far as the institutions are concerned, what I have on me as a report, the institutions acted in accordance with the law, as prescribed by the law. Well, I was surprised at the time when those ladies there, the women who run those papers, were arrested by procedures, and I was wondering why you used so much force when you could invite those women to come. I guess the procedures are prescribed that way a cop has to do his job. If that's the case, then that's the case, or maybe it's not. If not, then it shall be determined by the competent authority, which shall determine in fact the facts in which the detention was carried out, whether there has been excessive force or not. After the report's analysis, I can talk about whether 46 was or wasn't using excessive force. Thus, it is only possible to argue in such a way. But I think this kind of thing really is something that, in the future, we will be facing demands that all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at all levels of government, from the lowest, from the local community to the BiH presidency, each one has its own responsibility. The media has a special responsibility in this story. Indeed, what could be seen by the media, in the end, take just one fact that it is the media, how much our media we pay, so the state, I'm only talking about state television, public services, public broadcasters, how much they care about education. How many people can possibly be educated through these public media that are available to them, not only in terms of terrorism, but in terms of natural disasters and other species – floods, fires and all that is present here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know that there are such educational shows on the media that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina pay, and they pay big. What's more important here is who's gonna tell who to tell and do what's to throw a good smoke bomb and then after those smoke bombs, they've got reporters to write about, not to do that job they're actually paid for. And they are paid, among other things, to make sure that the population is educated in a way, and of course it is much easier to do so through public media which, among other things, have enough capacity to be able to engage the professional public who can make a significant contribution to training, and informing ultimately, and of course, when it comes to education itself. In the education system and at all, how are we going to, God Bog that this case happened to us at some school. How many educated children, educators or anyone else in the event of a terrorist attack, for example, God Bog, to one of the schools, which didn't happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but was happening in some other countries. Don't overstretched that fact when it comes to the possibility where all terrorists can, uh, act. So, this is something that, in my opinion, I repeat this third time, deserves indeed not only a thematic session, but a session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the failure to adopt this on the report by the Minister of Security which has shown here that he has been exclusively engaged in the profession and has not been involved in politics at all. He had one very broad explanation here, dealing exclusively with professional issues, a man dealing with police affairs, so he could simply say far more than that he was dealing only with the political reference to that event that took place. Here the Council of Ministers must, therefore, come up with one concept, with a proposal to respond in the future to the phenomena that may be happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately because such facts indicate, among other things, institutions dealing with gathering information about possible terrorists present here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to express my real support to all agencies and those who have worked for investigations conducted in connection with the terrorist act in Zvornik, what the minister said and the various levels of government, from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, state agencies, entity agencies, etc. So when the event itself took place then various structures were engaged where there was practically coordination and co-operation among them. From the moment of the terrorist act, the conduct of these services was in accordance with the law. If someone has noticed a deviation or if one of these services has failed to comply with the law, it would be good to carry out adequate procedures and determine the mistakes they have made, whether it is the Ministry of the Interior, or if it is any other agency. And what I believe the Parliamentary Assembly will recognize is that we will eventually come to the conclusion that what has already been established by the competent institutions that a terrorist act has occurred here and that we will come up with activities that will be directed at those who are designing, who create various assumptions, which finance any form of terrorism, any form of terrorism that is possible here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that international organisations will also make a significant contribution in terms of training everyone in the fight against terrorism and that we can also make a significant contribution. If 47 we send such a colorful message and take these conclusions that we have prepared here and send this message that we have today from the Parliamentary Assembly regarding our relationship with these issues will indeed be something that, in my opinion, will not be quality in terms of support, first of all those who expect us, and the people expect us to send a strong message to our commitment that we will fight every form of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, I wanted to simply point out some of the things that are present from this report itself and say that this is a far broader problem to whom attention should be paid as I said, here I fit in in in a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6476	That's right, thank you. Replica, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6477	It's not classic, but I need to say it right now. Kolega Bojić spoke about the media, it doesn't matter now in any segment we agree or disagree on, we mostly share an opinion on their responsibility, but as he speaks to one of the media, he comes out of this session, where he says – that there is an extremely heated session here, that there are strong conflicting views on whether or not terrorism, a minor war in Parliament. I don't have that impression, I'm even more prepared to say my impression that civilised, responsible and politically correct discussion is being held in Parliament today, and even among those who do not have the same views on everything. And I think this is the day when, at least when this issue is at stake when as Parliamentarians, this House can be proud of the way we're having the debate. And this may also be a good example of what fellow Bojić, as well as many other colleagues and colleagues, were talking about. On the day the terrorist act took place and days later, analysts and media and politicians either passed or failed the exam, each one for themselves. While some have shown attention and understanding to the seriousness of the situation and made their great contribution to calming down, not to be further complicated, others have shown complete surface, immatureness, giving incorrect statements, flammable statements, promoting themselves. Unfortunately, we have learned that there are a lot of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all in politics, but also in the media, who will use anything that is not sacred for personal promotion and personal interest, only worry that there are many. I'll get, I'll give up the discussion, but I'll only use this time to say two more sentences. And I would like to mention in the sea the names of the people who I believe have been responsible for the name of the head of the Municipality of Zvornik Zoran Stevanović and to show my respect in the way he's been acting all this time. And at the end of one sentence, we soon have a visit to the Pope of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the point of view of today's discussion, I am concerned about the event, which is a big deal for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but certainly also a major security challenge. I'm not looking for any, no preparation reports at this time, I just want to believe that police and other agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing their job, but I needed to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6478	You've finished both the replica and the discussion. Mr. Damir Bećirović has his word. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6479	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's definitely, now we see that it was a terrorist act that we all need to condemn. And this is not the only terrorist act that happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it is obvious that some have a problem to admit that there is a problem with terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we must again see with which terrorism, with which we must not attribute anything, any group, nation and nationality, because this is primarily about people who have disturbed attitudes, disturbed views of social events and who should be taken as such. We saw this time, as well as many times before, that people who were directly affected by this act had done much better than those politicians who were supposed to lead this people, who in every act sought their own way out, some of their uplifting and some of their increasing ratings on account of what had happened. And that's one of the things we should also condemn. We have a problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina with terrorism, we have a problem when we take this other piece of information, especially when we hear this from a fellow Rančić who has been working in the security sector for many years, that after so many arrests you have two people who have stayed in custody, one of whom is already in custody and who is already being tried. So there are definitely some elements that need to be examined. It's the problem of all of us again because some of the works and some of the actions are taken as an alibi for some of the other works of certain institutions that should be doing their job professionally. Our problem here will surely be in the fight against terrorism which, I support my colleague Lovrinović, means that it is definitely a global problem that exists with us, fragmentation, non-communication between police agencies, a huge number of police agencies that we have here that start working only after some act happens. The work is suspended after a month or two, so we can see again that the directors of police agencies are shooting up, if someone got the information, didn't get the information, when they get the information. So there is simply no connection between the security sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone works for themselves and no one knows what information is available. We have a large number of radical ideologies, followers of radical ideologies of various that appear in Bosnia and Herzegovina and who work and which are funded both from Bosnia and Herzegovina and abroad, but simply there is no firm determination to do something in this plan and in this field because our security agencies, some employees exchange that information and foreign services, receive and use it in their own way, use information to politicians and this, and do not deal with those jobs for which they are paid and who are to work. Terrorism is certainly one of the biggest problems that we will have in the future here, because we have a large number of people, a large number of radical movements that appear on our ground. And for that we must definitely condemn this act that happened, the terrorist act that happened in Zvornik, but everything that happened before. We must invite all police agencies, the Department of Security, to do their job responsibly and in accordance with what the law prescribes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6480	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6481	Thank you. 49 So, I would like to say that this is undoubtedly an important and serious question and that it would not be good or wise to underestimate it. I think the fight against terrorism and against all destructive individuals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including destructive groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be principled, comprehensive, not partial, because I fear we will not have the right results if our approach is unilateral and selective. And it seems to me that even today at this session, we have somehow manifested that there is still this selective approach. You see, we are today discussing on the basis of information made up of the BiH Council of Ministers' Ministry of Security, and on the basis of information they have received in accordance with their powers and powers from both state and entity institutions and bodies. And today we should also have a agenda point Information on attacks on the media and on journalists with special reference to this attack on Facebook TV in Banja Luka, but this is explained and rejected by words as if the Ministry of Security had no such jurisdiction. So it would be a good idea if we really didn't have double arches and to approach all these issues in principle. I am particularly interested here in the measures taken by the BiH Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry of Security to improve the situation in this area. And I have to say what I saw as proposed measures that are in no way satisfactory, nor do I think that's something that needs to be prevented from such and similar possible events in the future. See, says the conclusion of the 1st of these measures – to improve coordination of activities. Neither is it said when it will be done, nor who will do it, nor any other concrete measure. One clean bureaucratic conclusion that will remain somewhere in the archives again. The second conclusion – work to create adequate capacities and improve infrastructure. What does that mean? Couldn't have been worked out much more precisely, suggested a concrete set of measures to do so. So everything is unclear and obvious that we, by the Ministry of Security and by the Council of Ministers, do not have a necessary set of measures in this area. However, perhaps one of the essential issues here today is, do we have a systematic and comprehensive approach to this problem? In my court, I don't think we do. I don't see that system or full approach in solving these problems. Here, did anyone today hear from someone from the Council of Ministers, including the Secretary of Staff, that a concrete measure was offered, that it was proposed to pass some Lex specialis law, that we said to amend BiH's Criminal Law in some parts that would allow for a more effective fight. No Niko was talking about it or suggesting anything about it. I'm not talking about the conclusions coming from the parliamentary benches right now. It is indicative that there is no treatment here for the role of the international community which, whether we like it or not, plays an important role in this country because it is an integral part of the constitutional system of this country. What's her responsibility? What's her role in police reform in 2009? I'm one of those who voted against this kind of police reform, because even then we could see that this in the way it's supposed to be at the state level is clearly not going to be able to get good results. And they were changing there ministers, etc., but they were all hitting their heads against the wall because there's no subordination at the shortest, and as we can see, this coordination we're talking about is quite questionable. I must say that there would therefore be no dilemma in the BiH Parliament, we should condemn every terrorist act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is no excuse for any terrorist act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there is no excuse for such an act, nor should it be sought. Of course, it's not just Bosnia and Herzegovina's problem, it's a planetary problem. That is why the real issue would be for us, as well as for the representatives of the legislative authority, what, and in what way to help, would enable police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be more effective in fighting both this and other crimes in our country. Of course, we would have to ask the question, and some today have said, what is the cause of this destructive behaviour of individual groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first place. Are there responsibilities and policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I think he certainly does. The messages, the climate that is created and everything else certainly suits the destructive elements in our country. The particular question is, I think that's what my colleague Mehmedović was talking about, which we're running from some facts, so we'd rather talk about someone else but not talking about this other 50 at all. We see in Bosnia and Herzegovina permanent alignments of Chetnik units. Look out, people, in World War II alone, 100,000 people were killed because of the Chetnic ideology and the Chetnic... Imagine how the citizens feel, now and in the space of the smaller bh entities that see these alignments, what kind of message is that? Are we ready to really face all the extremisms in Bosnia and Herzegovina seriously, to say stop fascism. To do something in Criminal Law or to pass a special lex specialis law. As far as I'm concerned, the attack on the Zvornik Police Station, I think that's what Ahmetović was talking about, the attack on the police is an attack on the state, an attack on the constitutional order of this country, and it has to be sanctioned, and there's no dilemma. However, what happens to us in the country when one of the important entity or most important entity leaders says that in 2017 he intends to break the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that a security threat? You can imagine how people feel in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How, then, can such a policy affect us to be more effective in the fight against both terrorism and all other crimes? It would be good for all of us to think about these things and really see how and in what way we can give our contribution, not only in the intense debates in Parliament, where everyone tells what they have, but also to see if we have concrete measures that we can improve the existing situation. It seems that in parliaments too, it is best not to do anything, because if you suggest anything, it is not good. We're starting and we seem to favor stone sleepers in this country. So it is very important that we see this problem and do, in turn, all that is necessary for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the institutions in this country to face these problems more effectively.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6482	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6483	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We welcome all of our colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, to the Ministers, since there are no ministers and to fellow journalists who closely follow and carry very successfully what we are saying here, because these from the last bench except for the right wing and they are not mentioned that they exist in this House. But I guess it's a good life, and they're talking at all, and they're even talking, that they even exist, that they're even active, that they work, etc. It seems to be the fate of those who are called the opposition. And now a little bit about what the subject of today's session is. Everything that happens and has to do with people's safety is for every conviction. Everything that can happen and when human life is threatened is for every conviction. All it does and hurts people and their families is for every conviction, especially what's called terrorism. But we must enter the definition of terrorism or terrorism. What's that? And then according to our law, and it doesn't differ much when it comes to legislation in our environment or legislation in what we say is Europe's democratic fluid, quick-cutting and labeling is something that can also have counter effects. Let the authorities dealing with this problem give a final definition of what happened after all that has been carried out in a procedural sense, that is, when it examines what it was all about. We've been bombed by information they've been spreading. I don't see a beard anywhere in the pictures, I don't see an achmedium anywhere, and I don't see the Wahhabi clothes anywhere. That's me, the first piece of information I read was the one. The following information I've read, here I have it here I can read it to you, is information that with the shouts of allahu ecber. Why aren't we getting that video? The whole outside part, you have photos so you see, is covered by cameras and the complete inside part where 51 happened this terrorist act was covered by cameras. Why can't it be if it's really like that? So things have to end. As a product of it again you have something that is, I will now speak so, regardless, it will probably be a replica and all but I must say so, it is said as a product of it, I did not invent it, meaning on Republika Srpska TV that they have taken action to prevent further terrorist attacks and action, so it is said, and I can read it and give it the name "Ruben“. This is very important. It's very superficial to explain the word ruby. So, in the biblija, Ruben's first name, first. It's the most primitive, unconscious, full of ignorance, etc., and then it was translated into a completely uncivilized tribe. And it's very interesting that the first action and operation that Israel made when he began his first conflict with the Arabs was called Ruben. That's very interesting. How, who knows what it means is such a, let's call it, action, I don't know what I'm going to call it, the name "Ruben“. And I'm absolutely in order for everyone to be treated completely. I've talked about it dozens of times because it's a danger to my children. We just have the next problem. Is belonging to some order of automatism considered terrorism? Are the evangelists terrorists? Are the Jewish witnesses terrorists? Then why are terrorists selephics? That's the order, whatever you want to call it. Why am I saying this now? Remember the Ronsa and Algamor brigade. Who did those who took him and killed him belong to? It's very interesting who they belonged to. Read it, I'm not going to say it's not Backović making it up, but read which line they belonged to. Does that mean everyone in that order is a terrorist? It's interesting that Rose's brigade was in Germany, they weren't in that order, but they were terrorists. We must find in this country a modus, modality and a way for all forms of violence to stop because of the population, because of the fear of the citizens, because of what those who claim to be political leaders, such situations of abuse, and make the people feel insecure and fear each other. It is true that I do not accept this way of celebrating religious rituals, religions, etc., I do not accept, but I cannot enter into the psyche of those who accept and I have no right to prevent them from doing so. But I do have the right to stop the awakening of something that can result in people getting hurt. It is very symptomatic that at this time a person appears as an expert in terrorism called Irfan Peci. Did you hear who Irfan Peci is? He is now saying that he is dressed, etc., born in Bosnia, dressed in Maoca and pretend to be born in Germany, that his parents are from Turkey and that he is paid to say it. So type in Irfan Peki and read who that person is. It's just very interesting where he was paid to say it. Where did he come from knowing and not living in Bosnia and not living in Bosnia, but living in Germany. We stick a knife in our backs. According to its features, the number of acts is a classic terrorist -- a bug explosion, in front of the US Embassy, an armed man who shoots in a frenzy without looking at who is present. I don't have a dilemma, I don't have a dilemma, but I have a huge dilemma when there's only one side to respect that something like that exists. That's not true. You can't generalize, you can't say I'm a terrorist or we're sitting here. You have a last-minute meeting, read it, why don't you read the last report from the meeting, the minister went away and wanted to ask him himself, with representatives of the security agencies and with the chief prosecutor. How many thousands of names do you need to deliver to the OSA, the Co-ordination Agency, the SIPA, the RS MUP, the Federation MUP, the cantons. It's simply thousands and thousands of people will be potential terrorists. And then it's hard for us in this country. But then I wonder if there's... _________(?) /not a microphone turned on/ This may not suit you, this way, but it doesn't matter, there'll be an opportunity to talk about it. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6485	As far as I'm concerned, you have the right to say whatever you want, but you're out of time, I think. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6486	I'm talking, I'm talking, you heard, I tried to get into this, find names, last names, etc. And it's very interesting, I also wanted to talk about where they were paid from.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6487	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6488	Because you have it all, it's very easy to get the data.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6489	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6490	Check for Irfana Peci.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6491	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović has a word, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, Nermina Kapetanović, a Bošnjakinja who practices Islam as a religion, am myself permanently committed to curbing all kinds of radicalism that leads to terrorism and I will never allow those who practice the same religion that I practice to respect terrorism as the ultimate act of radicalising certain processes within Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the world. While the radicalisation that leads to terrorism is a very, very dynamic process, which one or more people accept to be, to come into a situation to accept violence, therefore, as a way that includes all terrorists, and a conscious fact that there is no clearly established path that leads individuals to terrorism and knowing that possible triggers of terrorist radicalisation if today some are trying to avoid the term of terrorism is terrorism. What happened in Zvornik was terrorism. But we need to know that the triggers that lead to it are very, very different and complex and that they are based in different ways, but each for themselves in a case-by-case way. And I can't agree with stereotypes that say that radicalisms are based on religion, nation, ethnicity, sex, socioeconomic status, I'll never accept it and it's not true. So, as a person, I firmly reject the identification of terrorism with any nationality, I reiterate that, with ethnicity, with religion and I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina has long been a country, avoiding the permanent resolution of radical terrorism that required the authorities of all levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially security agencies, has demanded a sophisticated and comprehensive reaction that should have started a long time ago, even at a time when they were... collapsed, ever since the sigma was cast, so on Muslims who to this day carry that burden on their shoulders. From the 53rd day, Bosnia and Herzegovina had to, therefore, completely from all security intelligence agencies to governments at all levels to take adequate reactions. This, of course, meant what the distinguished counterpart Bećirović spoke of and an adequate and effective action of criminal law and I as a person who has been talking about frequent amendments to BiH's Criminal Law for many years, and as far as I know, a group for amending the Criminal Law has been working since 2003, and it seems to me that it is constantly in constant composition and that it has been regularly paid, there has been no change in the Criminal Law of BiH and predicting such terrorist, therefore, attacks, acts, qualifications. So there's no definition of terrorism, as there's no definition of torture, and we can call what happened to returnees in RS maybe a torture if it's been found that human rights have been violated. Now, you know, a colleague probably accidentally said the SIPA should, the SIPA usually works so as to conduct an informative conversation and then arrest someone. We have cases, we know cases, and they're close to us, some of them that were first arrested, and then they just had an informative conversation. But as a former member of the Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, I am expressing my disdain today why is it that the Commission, which was Magazinović spoken of by Mr Bećirović and a few colleagues, why has the Commission not started working to this day? I don't understand. At the very least today, representatives of these security agencies and prosecutors, the BiH Prosecutors should be here, and I see no reason why, according to the Minister of Security and the Minister of Human Rights, we would be projected our dissatisfaction when they wrote their reports at the request of the Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. And since information would come out differently, and I'm not a spokeswoman of either, they had to go out into the field to determine the actual state. Because they can't, like the former strongest political party in the RS, SNSD, here I call them from this place, ask for insight into the situation as requested by Mr. Chairman, Mr. Džaferović, on the basis of media allegations and speculation. It was their argument at the first session why Mr. Džaferović should be replaced. So, neither does the Minister of Human Rights, I suppose and I can see, could come to information differently but to, therefore, get on the ground, to talk to people, all of these here that are numbered, I believe in these recommendations that were made and those recommendations made by the Minister of Security. But I'm saying, I don't understand why there's no importing security agencies and prosecutors, and why there hasn't been any changes to the Criminal Law until today? I would like to know the ways and reasons why the Republika Srpska police have chosen these 32 households that have been searched in Republika Srpska and who have been taken according to this Methodology, as Mr. Rančić said, taken away and then 24 released, so it was down to 2, so 2 stayed in custody. I must say that as a former member, and I may still be but I do not know since I am not told by the parliamentary delegation of BiH to the Council of Europe, I know that this is a violation of human rights and what has been stated by the honourable minister, that is, Article 3. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights says it represents such a form of violation of human rights. If you bring one man into something, whether it's an arrest or an informative conversation, 15 people, of course it is, it's possible that the use of force is possible. But this should be explained to us by the representatives of the security agencies here, and I think that a report should finally be made in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the current state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the context of the arrival of svet otac papa, but also in the context of the life of our children here within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for me, it is very important for Parliament to come out today with a proposal to conclude that an emergency safety report in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being delivered immediately at the next session as it is. Of course, there is an impact of the arrests on the return population and the violation of their personal and collective security. And I remember what Mr Ahmetović was talking about, stories about the bill on the fight against terrorism, and I remember the rejection of Republika Srpska's MUP, and that 54 part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it happened. Bosnia and Herzegovina may not have come to this stage of escalating radicalism for all of whom respected colleagues have spoken all things. I, too, am pleased to see this House today without great tension talking about it, therefore civil, how it should be spoken in Parliament. But what we lack is the exchange of experiences at national, regional and international, or global level. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only have national measures to combat all radicals, so also terrorism, not only have security agencies been imported, and we are aware of this when the BiH presidency building was burned, and noting that this is not a 10-year-old matter but since 31.10.2000, the UN Security Council, as a body responsible for international peace and security, adopted then Resolution 1325 of Women, Peace and Security. Don't be surprised what I mention today as a member of the Commission who I find pointless in the bh Parliament for gender equality, but with the obligation to do so because I was elected to Brussels as vice president of such a body, I say that in 2000, the Security Council has made a resolution and warned about the escalation of radicalism in the world and this ISIL which is happening and the participation of women within these processes. It could have been in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so women's participation could be increased first, so we're not in decision-making processes, we're not, we're not in post-conflict processes, we're not in peace talks, even though we have women who participate in peace operations. But he can. There is a UN Resolution, and I am not going to tell her exactly the number now, which affirms the human security approach in which the UN Member States are called, which we are, to take measures at all levels, and with the aim of affirmation, so peace and security in the world. What should he do with security agencies, Bosnia and Herzegovina? And that's a proposal for a measure, and I'll say it very soon. So, with the change of experiences at national, regional and international level, we need to work very hard with civil society, we need to promote implementation measures, public stands, campaigns, round tables, work with religious communities, and we need to prevent possible conflicts and take care of the increase in radical processes and the fight against terrorism. So, I call on the Council of Ministers first to draft a report on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to deliver it to the next session of Parliament for, therefore, the upcoming visit to the papa, due to the lives of our children, the safe environment, representatives, so the BiH Prosecutor's Office for Open Dialogue with the aim of protecting human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6493	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, then Mrs. Borjana Krišto, so I intend to discuss it, so it's about order if someone doesn't report in the meantime. Here you go, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6494	I thank the chairman. I'm going to be a short colleague and a colleague, and I'm going to try not to extend the debate in question, but to focus on the party's official position. The Party of Democratic Activity condemns every form of terrorist organisation and action, and accordingly condemns the recent attack on the Zvornik police station. We express our compassion for victims and physical injuries, and call on all authorities and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to act preventively in order to prevent similar criminal and terrorist acts from happening in the future. We also want to show concern about the returnees' statements of inappropriate behaviour by individual police 55 officers and investigators during the Ruben police action“ which added fear, mistrust, and disrupts the built-up co-existence and positive relations between the people living in these areas, regardless of national or religious membership. By estimating the debate and the time for this item of the agenda, I propose a conclusion, which I have delivered, I hope has come to all colleagues, which reads: – The House of Representatives asks the Ministry of Security to produce and deliver it to discuss the full information about all the acts of terrorism and attacks on people and property so far, as well as criminal acts that have a feature of terrorism. The content of the information should state the state of the case of investigations or judicial proceedings, as well as a proposal for conclusions that would be sown, supported and speed up the resolution of undeveloped terrorist events. I also want to look back at my colleague Lovrinović's discussion, who suggested that this conclusion be supplemented by a deadline for the delivery of information. I appreciate that the 120-day deadline may be optimal because of the complexity, the production of such information and the time needed for the official correspondence between ministries, agencies, prosecutors and judicial authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6495	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6496	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers, deputy ministers, all co-workers, in fact all the participants of today's session of the House of Representatives, I warmly welcome you all. Well, in some ways I welcome all the debates that have contributed today to this debate on one very important topic of countering terrorism, we are doing one thing in a way that would have some effect on this House. But I will also look back, to say, from the very definition of this point, of our proposal for a conclusion that we had on our college, to what I mean about this topic. The name of the item agreed on at the College was Information on the terrorist attack in Zvornik with data on all the activities of the relevant security agencies, at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina that were actually undertaken before and after the terrorist attack. The name of today's point, you all know well, is the Council of Ministers' Information on the attack on the Police Station in Zvornik and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska. Formally looking at this Council of Ministers report and it doesn't exist. In fact, it did not make a single piece of information, to say the whole, which is summed up by this information obtained from the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights, then the competent institutions that are in law enforcement, so here we are in some way left with the will to have one position or to analyse whether, from the aspect of the violation of the law, i.e. European conventions and statutes, there has been a violation of certain human rights, I do not know what the position of the Ministry of Security is, in which way this work has been qualified, etc. However, on the activities, in any case, of the security institutions, actually before the terrorist attack in Zvornik, we were not provided with any information or we have it. The terrorist attack on the police station in Zvornik didn't actually happen, because even in this event, in fact in this report these two ministries don't have a word, we heard it today and through the debates, here's except for the information we heard from the minister, through, in some way, oral 56 conversion, because it was an attitude, waiting for the position of the competent institution, or the prosecution, how to characterise it. We also see here that the detailed processing activities of Republika Srpska's MUP, Operation Ruben, which was actually carried out days after the terrorist attack on a police station in Zvornik. In all of this we see from the D.A.'s, the competent institutions, the qualification of acts is a terrorist attack, actually an armed attack on a police station, is equal to terrorism. We heard from the Prime Minister's opening statement, which says that we should do one truly complete analysis, information about terrorist acts, and that we can, on that basis, and that we actually have a proposal to prevent terrorism. I will also respect that certain colleagues also remembered some events, also chronologically crossed – Mostar '97. auto-bomb, apartment building near the police station, huge material damage and a large number of injured, murder of Croatian police officers and returnees in Central Bosnia, murder of a planted Joza device by the Leutar MUP, the murder of Croatian returnees from the Anđelić family in the Konjic municipality, the day before Christmas, on Christmas Eve 2002, committed by religious fanaticism, planted a bomb at the Fis Knightz shopping centre, killed a security guard, attack by an explosive device at a police station in Bugojn, killed a police officer, planted an explosive device under a HDZ representative's vehicle in Zenica, an attack on the US Embassy in Sarajevo and an attack on a police station in Zvornik. If I happened to forget something in this memory, I apologize, so, thinking that in the chronology of events we're covering all of those, all of those acts actually have a sign of terrorism. And I want to add to that that the United States Embassy, and the EU, has mentioned this today, and the Office of the High Representative, has all condemned the terrorist attack in Zvornik and the term has in some way been somewhat lagging through this debate today and is not actually in the agenda. Actually, what happened, we wonder. I want to say that this is not a good way, that this does not bring any of us well, that we should look, in a way, at the truth in the eyes if we want to solve the problem. If we want to solve the problem, I mean we should call it one and the same name, and then that's the way to solve it or to contain one act like this. In fact, the Ministry of Security has proposed certain measures to improve coordination, improve the coordination of activities of all in terms of faster flow of information, work on creation, I don't know, adequate capacities, adopt a strategy, I don't know, taking into account some kind of structure of security and its development over the past period, that the strategy should clearly define some objectives aimed at preventing these criminal acts and activities. What am I saying? That these measures, in some ways, are necessary and we always do them through, but I don't think they're enough. In fact, we have to work on both prevention and repression against these terrorist activities, and that's actually one necessity. Every time, and I will also say, when someone from politics, whether an individual and especially public persons are relatively viriating, minimize some terrorist act, when someone may directly or indirectly justify it to some past wartime or personal trauma, whether it is doing so publicly, whether it is working today on Parliament, I personally think it contributes to the potential for terrorism. We can also say that after the truly terrible war events that have happened we have not had such spells, means directly, but today we are in a very difficult situation and unfortunately we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina a radical ideology, its organised followers who deny human and civilization values. And I think that exclusion and violence towards another and different is actually the central idea of that ideology. Someone said rightly, through these statements, through these events, they take our children, they steal our children. Of course they're stealing through our children and the future, so Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and society, in my opinion, in these circumstances is not the place for one normal life, and in a special way for development and growth in every respect. So, in my opinion, every policy, every single person who tolerates this sort of thing brings us all into 57 delusions and thinking that maybe in that way, in a way, they'll profit, I think they can soon become the victim of all of us together. And I want to characterize, as well as many colleagues, that this is actually a global problem, not imputing and not wanting, bringing some kind of, I don't know, challenge in terms of some intention that we want to attribute, I don't know, to one nation, one nation, etc., I want to say that for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the whole world it's a global problem. I also wanted to look back at some more events, here's to the arrival of St. Father Pope in the context of this, that it's also a test and a test for our security agencies. But with respect that my colleagues said so before me, here is Saša Magazinović, and I welcome that review in the context of our security agency exams. And I would just like to say in the end that I also welcome certain proposals for conclusions that came from this debate and, of course, I will vote in a way that way. And I personally think, in the end, that all of us here at the House of Representatives must condemn this terrorist act, and not just this and all others that have occurred in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, publicly from today's session, we must once again express our condolences to all the families who have been victims and this and all other acts of terrorism and we must ask the institutions of the system that are in the service of the law that under the power of law work on the burning, prevention and repression of these crimes, both terrorism and all other acts and those in connection with this work, and the institutions of the system that, in the service of this law, must have our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6497	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6498	Mr. Šefik Džaferović, chairman of parliament, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6499	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is very important that we here today at the Prestrana Dom have opened a debate on the terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station and that we have reached, through this debate, and the action that followed by the Republika Srpska Police Department called "Ruben“. I think that today's discussions have shown, no matter what discussion I could not agree with, maturity and willingness to deal with in one way or another with the problem we obviously have. Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of an anti-terrorism coalition. Europe and the world are looking for ways to fight against extremism and radicalism leading to violence and terrorism. And the key question that we have to give an answer to here in Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually the answer to that question. When this terrorist attack occurred, I responded immediately and said it was, that the attack on the police station was an attack on the state. And in particular, it is also an attack on the co-existence of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and invited the citizens of Zvornik and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina to refrain from mutual understanding and assistance to law enforcement agencies, in order to determine all the facts and motives of this attack. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina must find a system of measures to start with those that are of political nature and institutional state nature, police, judicial, system of measures related to the education system, activity, relevant activities of religious communities, NGOs, media, all segments of society, so that we can deal with radicalism and extremism that goes into violence and terrorism in the most successful way possible. I think it's in the interest of all of us living in this country. 58 The attack on the Zvornik police station, a terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station, thus the event qualified the BiH Prosecutor's Office at the very beginning, was a blow to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is in direct contrast, here I belong to the Bosniak people, to the interests of the Bosniak people. And I'm very interested, and we all need to be interested, to fight it with all legal means. Obviously, we won't be able to finish this debate today, and it's obvious that this will have to pass our defense and security commission, too, many conclusions have been proposed. It is obvious that this will have to be subject to more detailed information from the BiH Council of Ministers and that this will be necessary again through the package of measures to come back to us at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I invite all of us to totally, completely objectively rule out any subjective feelings, especially to reject any politicization. There's been a lot of politicization here, ladies and gentlemen. I, right to tell you, got scared the night I heard the first reactions and the first statements of the first people, and for the safety of the most responsible people, the entity of Republika Srpska. After half the night, after a session of the Republika Srpska government, rhetoric began to change, in order to have a completely different one in the morning, I would say, the situation was a suitable relationship and statements by politicians. Because they saw for themselves where it could take all together, and where it could lead all together. That's why this debate of ours is important. And it's important to be done this way, to send a message that we really want to prevent this and deal with this problem in an objective and responsible way. I think, despite the fact that some of them might disagree with me, that the Republika Srpska Police action that followed it had elements of politicisation. You heard the numbers Mr. Rančić said today. It's not possible to launch an action at 32 locations, arrest 32 people on suspicion of terrorism, and in the end, only two people are detained in custody and, as far as I know now, I'm not sure what I'm saying, because of the criminal act of illegal holding a weapon. Two, therefore, persons. That has to be taken care of. And the action was carried out according to the population over which the genocide, crime and ethnic violence of each species were committed, and moved from their hearths. And those people are scared, they're returnees, and we need to say that here. It's not supposed to be done like that. When we take all this together, when we objectiveize things, then we'll be able to answer all the questions. I will propose to my colleague and colleague in the College, today there have been a lot of quality conclusions, proposals for conclusions, I would not like to see anything that has been quality proposed in this debate fail or that something that is not going through. And I think it would be best if we had a full stenogram from today's debate and delivered all the conclusions first and foremost to our defense and security commission, that it would evaluate this whole thing and try to suggest some summed conclusions that we would have here again at Parliament's session. Think about this proposal. You can accept it, and you don't have to. I think this would be what's best, which we could do in this situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6500	Thank you, Chairman Džaferović. Is anyone else answering for word? Is it a replica of Saša? Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6501	59 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6502	Here you go, replica, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6503	It's very, very short, just about this proposal. He sounds reasonable, there are very good conclusions here, I just think that the conclusion of my colleague Lovrinović should be excluded because it is not necessary to wait for the BiH Parliament to manifest itself about this event and to give its condolences, as it stands here, to the families of the murdered policeman, waiting for the other conclusions, whether, refined or whatever you want. So, it's not about me this is a good proposal, but I don't think it should apply to the conclusion of my colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6504	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6505	I'm using the replica to make a single statement about your proposal and these others. Namely, I would like to clarify one of these proposals of the esteemed colleague Pandurević, I do not see her, there is none here, I would like to ask her to consider withdrawing her conclusion under point 3d. It says, so under 3. – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to immediately form a working group, etc., on the drafting of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and other necessary laws to cover, and now it concerns, the acceptance of evidence that has taken place with special investigative actions without the order of the judge for the previous proceedings when these evidence concerns the crime of terrorism. This, in my humble understanding, means that it would allow courts, prosecutors, police to illegally obtain evidence in the case of a crime of terrorism, which is contrary to... the European Convention. And I know that a respected colleague respects, respects and regulations and human rights, often calls for it, so here I am asking her to withdraw this part of the conclusion, and everyone else is acceptable to me. I'm asking you to come that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6506	I have Mr. Borislav Bojić, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6507	I'm sorry, I can't use any other option than the replica. Of course I agree with what Mr. Džaferović said, given the spectrum of conclusions that is now ahead of us. But what the public expects as a message, which is the condemnation of a terrorist act in Zvornik, and that would be something that would be a minimum of this debate, of course by directing other conclusions towards the Commission that it sublimes them and then making one cut, which would be practically much easier to process, because it is simply impossible for these conclusions to now come to terms that would be acceptable for all, but one message that, as far as I can see, there is no opposition within the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6508	I don't think it's at all questionable that, I mean, it shouldn't be questionable to send such a message. So that's what we'll do when we get to the stage of these conclusions. 60 Mr. Rančić, you shut down the discussion because you accidentally signed up. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Nikola Špirić's proposal to supplement the 11th session of the House of Representatives' agenda with a point reads: "The Information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack in Zvornik" During last session of the House, during the debate on the agenda, that proposal was tabled for the addition of the session agenda. Since there was no need for the entity majority, the College as the Commission carried out the harmonisation. No consent has been reached. There's no debate here. We'll make it clear later in the second round of voting. Point five, Ad. 5. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Mešić (emergency procedure law)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6515	I thank the chairman. So, I'll try not to repay. So I've suggested a conclusion, and it seems to me that I've also been accepted, to sublime such large reports on some 4-5 pages, or... another circle, I don't know what it's like now, so we can easily monitor these materials. And this is one of the materials that is, in which way I want to discuss it. So let's say page four, but there's part two of this report, because it's huge, so if one of the MPs is going to watch, it's this Annual Report, so on page four, of the half actually text. You see here, therefore, when the central bank gentlemen speak for what they are in charge of. Now, it would be nice to have a 2-3-page view of the Central Bank's leadership of all of these issues of what's really going on. Of course, it is likely that for the more careful readers and the greater knows-how there are in these figures and can be followed for sure, but surely for all of us MPs it would be worth having a strong, clear view of all these issues, precisely what they are in charge of in a brief statement and that we can follow it. And whoever wants to be more aware of it or confirm these findings that the Central Bank Administration is behind, can then find in this material that is large. So, I would love to if not now, just this time, so I just got up to discuss and confirm what I was thinking that we could use, because these materials that have 100-62 200 pages, so it's very difficult to get there from the analysis, the synthetics of the power shown here, to get out the most important thing. So it would seem to me that these people who are sending us these reports would again appeal to the next time..., if I don't, again, try to try to figure out for themselves to stand behind us some information in which we can simply see the directions of movement in a particular area, what is happening, the main problems, their thinking about these events, what has led to it, and then who wants to see further here. Well, nothing more, a contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6516	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6517	I thank the chairman. Please be treated as a business intervention, I don't have that button. Article 184. The Rules of Procedure – the rights and duties of the BiH Council of Ministers, 184.c) The Council of Ministers, through its representative, is required to take part in the House sessions. And Article 185. The BiH Council of Ministers represents its chairman or one or more of its members, and ministers can also be deputy ministers. As far as I can see, we don't have any ministers or deputy ministers, and this is something that the SBB Club is going to insist on both the House sessions and the House meetings, because Article 184 c) that I've just quoted says the same about the commissions, with ministerial assistants being on commissions. But when it comes to Dom, Mrs. Borovac just left, so this is something we're going to insist on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6518	Okay, that's your right. I don't have anything else to say right now except that it's like that, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6519	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6520	What now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6521	... to make known the justification of this business intervention. I would ask now to enter the record of this business intervention on the absence of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6522	But I don't know what you're asking me to do. What can I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6523	To declare the eligibility of the business intervention on the absence of the Council of Ministers. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that the Chairman of the House must declare the eligibility of business 63 intervention. I know that I have the right to my opinion, but this right allows me to the Constitution of the European Convention, and you have the obligation to plead on the justification of my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6524	I don't know, you need to explain to me what I'm supposed to do right now, I think. You said what you see, there are no people here. What am I supposed to do now, say what? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6525	Afterwards, the House Chairman will decide on the justification of the objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's an obligation. I don't know how more clearly to read this to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6526	Well, what does that have to do with any of the other sessions? Look, what am I supposed to say now? To say here there are no men from the Council of Ministers. Here, you said yourself they were gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6527	Objection justified or unwarranted? I'm asking you to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6528	And what do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6529	I can't believe we're having this controversy.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6530	Okay, thank you very much. Mirsad Isaković has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6531	I thank the chairman. Here, I can see there's no Central Bank representative either, I mean very interesting, is there? Okay. Finally, in this House, therefore, we also have a report from an institution, a state institution that has a positive financial result. The positive financial result is 35 million, and 21 million have already been given to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Could this financial result have been better or worse? So he could've been better and worse, but he's the way he is for the simple reason that through the deposited funds the banks could've been bigger by the interest rate. However, this would later, therefore, affect interest rates in commercial banks with clients. We don't need to forget that this bank and this show is a bank. So, how much money she made in the previous period, here's the governor, but there's no representative of the Council of Ministers. But here, at least that's good. So this bank is also an emison bank. What was the money show during this reporting period? There's no report here. I have information that the foreign exchange coverage, or foreign exchange coverage, is bigger than the conversion mark somewhere between 10% and 20%. I'm interested in why the show isn't done if we have already covered, why isn't 64 shows of this money done? When we talk about money emissions, we should probably talk about amortizing money, and we don't, we don't even have anything in the report about amortizing money. What interests me is this second part, so when it comes to macroeconomic analysis, so both markets and capital, etc. We have seen the general situation in relation to the exchange rate of dollars and the rate of the euro, or the growth of dollars relative to the euro or vice versa, fall the euro, is it, in relation to the dollar. I do not see this particular need to discuss it for the simple reason that the trade between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina is at the border of a statistical error. So, in this report, I don't think it should be, but what should be is, therefore, the savings of 8 billion citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why don't we put those 8 billion in office, so in long-term placements, into investments and thus allow Bosnia and Herzegovina not to continue to be in debt with the European Bank and the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank? In this respect, it is even more interesting that the report itself, at the very beginning when it spoke about its tasks, said that monetary policy is in the jurisdiction of the Central Bank, or ultimately the Central Bank is the most relevant for the implementation of monetary policy. Finally, the Central Bank is the safest institution to keep money, precious metal and other values. We know what was going on there, not to mention now. Has anyone been held accountable for this? Are there any sanctions? Because we know that there's both an audit and an office, so the Administration and the Office of the Internal Auditor. I can't see, I don't see all these remarks in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6532	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Denis Bećirović, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6533	The Honorable Chairman. So I wouldn't make a mistake, since I can't see from here, do we have a representative of the Council of Ministers at the House? As far as I can tell, there isn't. If it is true that it is not there, we have witnessed today that the Council of Ministers and Ministers consume the rights that can be consumed by the Rules of Procedure, among other things, and that they are discussing, at any time to report for the discussion, and you have led it to the Rules of Procedure. Now we have a situation where the session doesn't last in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 30-minute club and for the relevant ministers to come, so that we can work on our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6534	So, before I take a break, I'm obliged to give you 30 minutes, and I'll give you a break, no problem at all, so first I'm going to ask, is there a Council of Ministers in this room, since this is the second time, and now it's obvious that this is someone's big question, there's someone who represents the Council of Ministers? Please, is there anyone here? There isn't. Thank you very much. So, I find that there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers at this time, but that is not the reason for the session's interruption, nor is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which prevents the work of this House. The Council of Ministers has the right and obligation to participate, but nowhere is it said that we cannot work unless they are present. So that's one thing. And now Damir Arnaut is asking for a word. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6535	Mr. Chairman. The Rules of Procedure are very clear and there are no more or less important provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So you from that place insist on respecting the time of two minutes, ten minutes or fifteen minutes to the legislators, as long as it is permitted. And you're very firm in that insistence. And this insistence concerns the rights of MPs, and ultimately the duties of MPs to limit their debate within a time frame. However, when it comes to the presence of the BiH presidency, you are inconsistencies. And according to Article 27, one of the duties of the Chairman of the dom is to take care of the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure. And I have a concrete example of why you're inconsistencies, because when there was a proposal by the Prime Minister's Chairman, then a break was made to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6536	Please do not discuss the Chairman and the application of the Rules of Procedure. What is your specific business intervention, say which member and then you can finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6537	Member of the 27th term of office of the Chairman-in-Office of the dom - Consistent application of the Rules of Procedure. Please ensure the presence of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6538	Thank you very much. So, sit down in your seat and please listen now to what I'm about to tell you. I repeat for the second time, I find that at this time, in accordance with Article 184. Rules of Procedure, there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers in the O.R., one at a time. Two, I find that this is not an obstacle to continuing the session of the House of Representatives, and it will not be interrupted and will continue. And I find that the president, or member of the club, on behalf of the SDP Club, I assume, Denis Bećirović has requested a 30-minute break and I am taking a break at the SDP Club's request for 30 minutes. We'll continue in 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, time for a break is up. A break was requested by the SDP Club. I call on the president or representative of the SDP Club to take a word after the break time is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6540	The reason why we took a break, or requested a break, was for someone from the Council of Ministers to attend this meeting anyway, so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure that we brought ourselves. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6541	Thank you very much. I said before the session was concluded, that is, before the break of how things are and what my position is in response to your business interventions. The word seeks Mr. Damir Arnaut, as a replica, is it? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6542	It's like the Rules of Procedure of Intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6543	Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6544	I'd like to thank the chairman. Business intervention refers to Article 79(5)a). Disrespect of order involves insulting MPs and others present. I just didn't finish a business intervention that I have the right to three minutes in the Rules of Procedure, and you told me, quote you, sit in your seat. I remind you again that you are sitting in a position that is... honorable, learned and tolerated. You have an obligation to maintain the integrity of that function. When you tell the State MP, I quote you again, you sit in your seat, you talk about yourself, but what bothers me is you disrupt the dignity of that position. I am now seeking, requesting, on the basis of Article 76. Rules of Procedure, to decide on the justification of my objection. If you say that "sit in your seat" is not an insult to the MPs, then it speaks a lot about your standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6545	Thank you. So, Mr. Arnaut, you, as I recall, had the same business intervention on two occasions. After my answer, you asked again and again for business intervention, you demanded. And that's all I have to say about this current business intervention of yours. We're moving on with our work. Whoever wants to talk about it, Mr. Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6546	Arnaut's colleagues are short a single replica. Since you've been quoting something that your colleague's exhibited, he hasn't written. What he wrote is quoted and you can only paraphrase what Mr. Džaferović said. ...adjustment, since you're taking care of it all, so let's just make it right. So you can paraphrase, not quote. The quote can, when Mr. Džaferović writes it, then it is possible to quote, until then.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6547	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, again. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6548	To end these replications and this outwitting of this kind, under quotes, of course, the SBB Club is looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6549	I'm giving a half-hour break at the SBB's request. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's time to take a break. I'm calling on the president of the SBB club, since he asked for a break, to take his word for it. Mr. Đonlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6551	The Honorable Chairman. We analyzed during the break a completely unacceptable way of communicating with a member of our club and... we are our future procedures if such a way of communication continues. We appeal to full respect for each other, mutual respect and the right to be noted if something is considered to be out of line with the Rules of Procedure and to require that the Rules of Procedure be respected. And that's why we asked for a break, and here, I hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6552	So, thank you, Mr. Đonlagić. I have an obligation only to answer you from place, so let me say that I am as the chairman-in-Office, determined to fully respect this Rules of Procedure and to respect the dignity of every MP. I would ask all MPs to behave in the same way and respect the dignity of the chairman's House of Representatives and nothing more. Thank you very much. I don't think so anymore. This is a discussion about content. We are now on the agenda, so we have a agenda point – Central Bank Reports, under 1. Financial report and below 2. Annual report. Does anyone want to talk about it? Mrs. Kapetanović, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6553	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6554	Then turn off, please. Anyone else, we're having a debate on one and another report. Does anyone else want to talk about it? 68 Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6555	Just a few dilemmas. I won't be talking for long, just to clarify a few dilemmas, because I see it right now writing, a man reads through various portals. The central bank is not a bank show, the central bank is on board karensi and it does not have a mission function. We need to know that and we need to know that it's not her, it can't and it won't be, while in this form, her function. It has the duty to cover with a mild reserve of total high-level converting marks in the system, i.e. in payment or in use in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The other thing is something that is also not in its jurisdiction and very often we as citizens are looking for why it does not, why, because we are a rare Central Bank, or the only central monetary institution that does not have that kind of function and that kind of control, but is being transferred to banking agencies through legislation. And we have so two banking agencies, which is also unknown in state offices, I'm talking about the state, I'm not talking about jurisdiction. It's a deposit control that, at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I hope the governor confirms, exceeds 57% of the assets in the banking system, which means, over 57% of the funds allocated to companies, citizens, all of us, are actually our own, our assets. That's why we're going to be in big trouble, because those funds are being managed by someone who's called foreign, foreign banks and they're taking them, and from this too strong Bosnia and Herzegovina, they're bringing profits to weak Austria, Italy, Germany, very weak countries. And also, I hope the governor will help me, the data I have, meaning from the beginning, from the day of privatisation, when they first came not to count them because I know exactly how in the order that came, the total profit is greater than the funds they invested in buying and capitalising banks. So their total profit from the wealthy citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying this? Because as regulator of the Central Bank, you should point out to those who are rightly responsible, it's us here, that we have to do it to bring something called the law, or anything. Yes, for example, the funds available to the budget of the state are directed through domestic banks, going to something called a domestic, domestic bank, to develop this banking potential as a guarantee to companies that they can work. If nothing, they can get guarantees that they can get out of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders. For example, an Austrian firm competes for work outside and a Bosnianherzegovina. There's no way the Bosnian Herzegovina would get bank guarantees for a job out there because it applied to his domicile firm. It's an example for you, Štrabak. The last job is Luka Drač. Bosnian firms have passed requalifications, were first, but when it came to the second stage they remained short, I can't get bank guarantees. And we don't have an agency that can issue such a bank guarantee. Of course it's not yours, it's IGA, but IGA has no money, no potential. Of course this isn't in the central bank's jurisdiction, it's not your job, but your job is to point to this anomaly, to point out that the resources and resources created by these citizens, and the funds that are out of these citizens' pockets, should be for these citizens, because through the banking system we've actually created the biggest problem, the biggest problem in this country. And a little short question. In the total report to be read, we should let us see the structure of the Central Bank's capital. When I say structure, I mean monetary structure, kind of currency, gold, etc., so that citizens can know what this country has objectively in which, I don't know, the percentage of euro, dollars, yen, franc, gold, etc. It's very important because we are tied to the euro through the karensi board. So, with us, the euro is equal to KM in a given relationship. It's something we should be civil, not me as an individual, I don't care much, but in order to be able, in the overall structure, through what I'm telling you right now, you make people realize that billions of marks that are in the budgets, from municipal, over, in the Federation of Cantonal, over 69 entities to the state, actually through payment traffic give to undeveloped Austria, undeveloped Italy, undeveloped Germany and so on. And our banks are kneeling behind each other and squirming. They cannot essentially realize what their work would be, which is an incentive for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6556	Thank you. Anyone else want to take part in the debate? Central Bank Governor, Mr Kemal Kozarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6557	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives. I'm taking the opportunity to express my pleasure to have the privilege of speaking to you today. In front of you is the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH and the Financial Report that the BiH Parliament receives each year as information and votes of course for it. Mr. Isaković asked me a few questions which he also asked on the Commission itself, and I took the opportunity to give him an answer. But here, of course, because of all of you in the O.R. I think it is necessary and useful to hear the response of the Central Bank of BiH. So, we, as my colleague Backović said, are the Central Bank that works on the currency board. So it's a special model that's quite conservative, which requires a lot of coverage of domestic currency, so M1 must be in full capacity covered by foreign currency, anchor or euro, before it was a German mark. So, every fening that has crossed the threshold of the Central Bank of BiH is covered with foreign currency and we have a turnover of 3.3 billion converting marks with citizens in accounts, etc. So the traffic cash is 3.3 billion. Today here, today for the first time exclusively that I have the honor to tell you - foreign reserve, for the first time in the history of the Central Bank, have crossed 8 billion conversion marks. These are the largest since the establishment of the Central Bank, which is one sign, although we have a deficit of 6% of the GDP that this deficit is not financed by the burden of foreign reserves, which is good. On the other hand, we forget that our citizens can buy and sell domestic currency without restrictions. So without any restrictions, you can go to any commercial bank today, buy and sell your domestic currency. So, we shut down the black market, no more foreign exchange smuggling, and also the real sector, the corporate sector can buy and sell currency and pay its obligations to the outside, get re-promoting also on a fixed rate. So we shut down the sticung. And that's something that this model has brought and has brought monetary stability which is the first goal of the Central Bank, of all central banks, and especially of our central banks. When we talk about money emissions, it means the term fiduciary money is known. That, fiduciary means Italian trust, means countries that, by their economy, give their GDP a statement that their money is guaranteed by their economy, can print money. That model's out of line. We know what happened to ex-Yugoslavia, that mostly if we go that way, it must be causing an inflation spiral, and it ends up probably breaking down in monetary terms. So, by law, we're not allowed any way, so to speak, to create monetary mass, except when we get a solid currency, we issue a domestic currency. And that model is placed in macroeconomicly unstable areas. Unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina is still macroeconomicly unstable. We have monetary stability and if you have unemployment 27%, if you have a public debt of 30% or 40% with an internal debt, if you have current account deficits of 70 somewhere around 6%, it's a macroeconomicly unstable area. And God Bog we get into a situation so we can be macroeconomically stable and that we can, in some way, say, change this model. This model has brought what I think is very important, which is monetary stability, has restored confidence in commercial banking. Someone mentioned nine billion savings, that's true. So, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina keep cca 9 billion in commercial banks, and it's also the largest amount since the last years, 8% increase compared to 2014, 60% is in euro, 40% in domestic currency, which shows one significant trust in domestic currency. On the other hand, when it came to fellow Backović about the domestic and foreign banks. All in Bosnia and Herzegovina are domestic banks, only 90% of them are established by foreign capital. And the fact that foreign capital prevails in the capital of banks, but we can't regulate it, because whoever defends the owner, say domestic banks, that I don't speak the name of the bank, when the owner, which is the Ministry of Finance, doesn't keep an account in his bank. We can't wait for the citizens to hold, and the owner of the Ministry doesn't. So let's take the bills first, of course, by taking care of the risk dispersion, because later when something happens then, of course, the one who put the funds into that bank. So the banking sector is stable, and I think it's good, it's liquid, and it has a current problem with these non-quality loans somewhere around 14% at the sector level. So we have, unfortunately, a high liquidity banking sector. Over two billion dollars a day in the Central Bank accounts account for the funds of commercial banks. When you ask them what they don't do, and credit growth is 4%, so they don't have enough projects, they don't have enough quality clients, they manage more carefully the risks, etc. The fact is that 80 million euros this year is profit, so somewhere around 160 million marks profit from commercial banks, but we don't need to be afraid that someone here is making some money. It is not true that the total profit is higher than it is... active, because 16 billion in Bosnia and Herzegovina are paid, and here we said savings is 9. Citizens have withdrawn approximately 8 billion people, and this is exactly what counterpart Backović said, that they have financed themselves, but the real sector has pulled about 55% of that activity, so the banks have played this particular role, though I say again, there can be a lot of criticism at the level of interest rates, on their credit activity. Because in 2009, prior to the crisis, credit growth was 29%. Then we had a credit boom and, of course, by theory and by practice, he's leading the crisis, which is what happened to us. So on that side we have this situation which, in my opinion, is, at the end of the day, there's this space of course for some modifications, but the law is clear, so we're not allowed to create money. There were some ideas to print money, that we didn't need IMF, etc., etc. We're categorically against it, and we think we should spend as much as we have, and that we can't create something that we don't have and that we're getting into something that's adventure, here's what I can say. A colleague Isaković asked, and I don't think he should be quiet here, and that's what happened to us on December 8th, stealing 600,000 KM in the vault. That's true, that's a fact. It was done by an irresponsible individual who broke our procedures. We have captured this individual with our internal controls, we have reported him to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and he is today where he should be and will be responsible for his actions. We also conducted a disciplinary procedure against eight people, and we disciplined them because the investigation proved it, so the investigation was completed, we got papers from the prosecution to interrupt the investigation, that there was no basis for other people to have been organised, that someone was helping, covering, adding, etc. So on that side, of course it affected our reputation, that it happened to us, and it shouldn't have happened to us. We've been doing an analysis of our procedures and guidelines for five months now, and there's been leaks and we can't say that, but it just happened to us and we have to learn that lesson and we've taught it. I hope if Bog lets it never happen again, but it happened and of course it was the ones who missed the procedure. The procedures existed and they were 95% in line with the European standard. Unfortunately, those who needed to do something did not, and they will, of course, answer. Whoever did this, confessed, had evidence, he would surely answer in another way, and that's 71 clear. So here, at the end of my second term, I think of course I didn't dream it could happen, we mostly defended ourselves from the outside so that someone wouldn't attack us, satellite, tracking, long pipes, blinded vehicles, etc., we were attacked on the inside, which means it's possible and what ours is somewhat wrong is whether. But here, so we're aware of it, we reported it, we published it to the public, so we didn't hide it, but we made a statement and we got to know the public about it. And of course there's responsibility from me, so all those in the chain who took part in it. I offered my resignation on the Management Board in February of the month. They didn't accept it. So you know that, too. So there wasn't, and I feel like there's a part of my responsibility in that part of it, maybe that's where he put some manager, and here he didn't do what he was supposed to do. But there's a whole chain of responsibility, so that hierarchy is famous, and here and here in this honorable House to say, of course there's no reason to hide anything. That would be the answer to what you asked me. And here, only Mr. Zaim Backović's answer to the question of the structure of this activity. So, within us by law, we, since our currency is anchor, 95% of our assets are tied to the euro and invested in the euro area, means EU countries' securities and EU central banks. We have 3% gold, so we have 3 tons of gold in the portfolio and we have 2% of these other currencies. So 25% of us are exposed to the euro. And what Mr. Isaković asked, also this relationship of dollars and euros is important to us, because our foreign debt is tied to the dollar. We have 40% commitment in dollars to the World Bank, the IMF, etc. And any change in... dollars-euro affects that level of public debt. So we don't care what the ratio of the euro and the dollar is. Sometimes it fits, sometimes it doesn't fit. And the finance ministry mostly has a corrective factor of 5% when calculating the commitments, say this year 580 million KM is a commitment by Bosnia and Herzegovina to the abroad to pay the foreign debt. Well, that would be an opportunity to answer that. Thank you for your attention. I hope you will support our report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6558	Thank you, Mr. Governor. After the institution's representative, there should be no debate, but if you insist I have no other way than to allow you to. Mr. Backović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6559	Thank you, Kemo, for giving it this way, but I'm only going to say one piece of information, why I'm talking about domestic banks. The interest rates on citizens' deposits are at a maximum of 3.5%. They're maximum. On that deadline that, you know it yourself, is over 24 months. Interest rates are 7.5%. The difference is 4%. At 9 billion, only on that segment, is 270 million a year, 270 million to be the profit of these banks. That's why I'm saying that you as a central institution would have to do something to make, with those who actually manage you, do something in domestic banking, domestic banks. 'Cause don't forget, we've also shut down the Department of Payments. At every transaction of that bank from those poor countries, you yourself said domicile with foreign capital, they are theirs, they can withdraw capital in the morning, every transaction makes a commission. And instead of pumping it into our system, we pump it out of this country. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6560	Thank you very much. 72 Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6561	Thank you, Chairman. Well, of course, we've already discussed this in some places, Mr. Kozarić and I, but there's one thing I'd really like to point out here. So that's, I said 8 billion that's savings, she's lucky 9 billion, I made a mistake in the amount. But what I'm interested in, so this country should be interested in, those 8 billion savings, how to put them into office. How do we put it, then, into long-term investment and turn them over, so we don't go to the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank or the European Development Bank. So I know it's not the Central Bank's task. We've been very clear about this already, right, but the Central Bank is in charge of the monetary system in some way. Can't there be recommendations, advice, urgency, ways and methods used by the West to place short-term savings to place in long-term placements, to find a way, a method to do it in this country. So we shouldn't, we'd cover a billion-dollar deficit, we wouldn't need new responsibilities, etc., etc., if we didn't go further now. So the whole point of the story is actually that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6562	Thank you. Here, we still have Mr. Nikola Lovrinović for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I just wanted to say this, since Mr. Kozarić wasn't when I was talking in that part, I guess he wasn't in the hall at the time. Here, these five minutes or seven, as far as the gentleman was saying, is more effective than anything I've read here. So, that's the story I was telling that would be good for us, a summary of some reports that are so effective, say what business is, what problems are and what solutions are, and who wants deeper, as Mr. Backović, here it is, so be my guest, read it. So, I'd like to, that's exactly what I suggested, when I put it out there. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6564	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6565	Thank you very much. I won't be long, it won't be ten minutes, but I want to ask one perhaps naive, lay-off question, but I know it concerns all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And maybe someone will say -- well, it's not my jurisdiction, so there, here, I know a lot about jurisdiction, I don't know everything, but. We all strive and talk and if Bog thinks we're going to Europe in every way. And if Bog would, we'd get there like dirt. And on that path, we need all of our standards, calling for... is, to agree with Evropa. Well, I'm asking all of us, all of us, not just the governor and the National Bank and Parliament and the Council of Ministers and all of us who are in charge, when these banks that have come from Europe to 73 Bosnia and operating in their countries, according to those European standards, will behave here. The question is, when, say, a foreign bank, whether it's Raiffeisen, whether it's a Unicredit, whether it's NLB and in Bosnia, it's going to use interest rates for our citizens who are saving in the same amount but also for the loans they give to our citizens in the same amount? So if there's a loan, I don't know, for real estate, for building a single point something or 2%, when will it be here in our beautiful Bosnia and Herzegovina? And if there's gonna be an answer to anyone that I'm not in charge of, I don't know and all, we'd have to take care of everyone, and parliaments, and governments, and presidents, and ministers and governors to once come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not just the standards that suit them, but those who must be responding to our citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6566	Thank you. I don't think there's any need for further discussion. If you insist, Mr. Governor, of course. Let's go for a minute, please. Here you go. Central Bank Governor, Mr. Kozarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6567	First I tell my colleague Isaković about the savings. So it's about private individuals and banks that, if they have their own rules of credit. I said that at the moment 2 billion have funds that are mostly short-term. Secondly, we need to make sure that they have rules that banking agencies prescribe when it comes to the financial leverage, meaning short-term assets – short-term loans, long-term assets – long-term loans. No short-term loans. There's no long-term credit from the avist assets. So it's one of the standards and it has to be respected and it's a proposal that has been prescribed by banking agencies. What my colleague Rančić asked, and we often ask ourselves, and we think that the time has come for the interest rates to be lower. I say it in public all the time. But you need to know that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a B plus credit rating. It's one step away from the C rating that Greece has today. So we're still in... the area. When all together, what you have said both Parliament and Council of Ministers and all those who today act as important functions, create a business environment and when political stability is greater and when there is a better framework for investment, there will be less interest rates. We have a risk of a country being included in the price of capital. They don't get one by two, our banks are in debt there 4 per 5%, and what the credit margin said is about 3%, that's it. I think I can be less, I agree with you, but it takes time and we all need to create an environment together to make them smaller. And then it's going to be smaller, and I sincerely hope that that time will come very soon. And you're right that they're significantly less there than they are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6568	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Eh, we're closing the debate now. Thank you all. Moving to the 10th agenda, 74 Ad. Ten. Report on impact audit carried out on the subject: “Divide and use of funds of the current reserve”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was delivered in the procedure on 13.11.2014. The financial and budgetary committee in charge of the Report submitted its opinion on 28.05.2015. The Commission adopted the Report and referred it to a further procedure and proposed the adoption of the following conclusions. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption Combating that, as soon as possible, it analyses the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Dividing and using the funds of the current reserve" and determines whether there were conflicts of interest and elements of corruption in the allocation and use of funds, as well as the findings of the Agency's notice of the House of Representatives. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to, within 90 days, report to the House of Representatives on the implementation of audit recommendations under the Report on the revision of the subject: "The distribution and use of funds of the current reserve". 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to submit a detailed report on the allocation and use of funds of the current reserve three months to the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6570	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to point out that it is an extremely high-quality report, extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. If there is one of the representatives of the Audit Office here, I really congratulate them and thank you for this comprehensive and quality report. A report by the Audit Office was submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 13.11.2014, so six and a half months ago. And now I'm interested in why this report is only now on the agenda, or six and a half months later? Indeed, there is no reasonable excuse for such delay. The home was established less than a month after this report was delivered, and six and a half months later we consider it. And perhaps even more importantly, why wasn't this report on the agenda before the Bill on Budget delivered to us by the BiH Presidency? And I think the answer is clear, because the only intervention the BiH presidency had on the draft budget, which the Council of Ministers provided, was to increase its current reserve from 4% to 6%, i.e. at approximately 32,000 marks in total or on more than 100,000 marks to each member of the Bureau individually, according to the Budget Act. So again, the same ones who promised 100,000 new workers actually took the new 100,000 marks from the workers. I just hope next year he doesn't promise 200,000 jobs. Now that's why we haven't considered this report before the budget statement, because this is the report on the use of the current reserve, and the report couldn't have been worse, I think, according to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are using that budget reserve, which they used last year. And in 75 last year, the report was used by the Council of Ministers. And this year, the current 6% reserve was also given to the BiH presidency. And this budget with 6%, or 325,000, of the current reserve presidency, was adopted in both readings, and thus did not allow us to target these, 325,000 marks, or 100,000 marks per member of the Bureau individually, in a more transparent direction. Which was an explanation for both readings at one session, or retailes for emergency procedures. Article 112(4) Article 112(4) was an explanation for the urgent procedure of the Budget Act. And you know what Article 112 of Section 4 says? If it is estimated that it is a law of minor size or degree of complexity, the House may decide to consider it in both readings. If he decides it's a small-scale law or a degree of complexity. So the Budget Act was a small volume or degree of complexity, 370 pages, more than 10,000 individual budget figures, over 100 budget users, it's a law of less scope or degree of complexity. Well, it's an honor to interpret the Rules of Procedure. And so interpreted that members of the Bureau would give 100,000 marks to each individual from a source for which the Audit Office had only criticism, or from current reserves. And here are some conclusions of the Audit Office – the revision has shown that there are significant weaknesses in the process at the disposal of part of the current reserve, which is intended to finance non-profit organisations, is available non-transparently, leaving room for corruption, i.e. the use of a public position to achieve inappropriate benefits for themselves or others. Now that's what we were talking about when the Budget Act was considered, specifically 100,000 marks for each member of the Bureau individually. To build someone a stadium, to fix something, and then go to the polls. So it was then concluded that it was not envisaged that the decisions of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and its deputies on the allocation of funds of the current reserve give an opinion to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. And now we've given it to the BiH presidency even more. So it is said that individual amounts depend on users, perhaps not significant, but the access itself to the distribution of public funds does not have elements of public responsibility, and the choice of users is non-transparent and very selective. And that's what we've given now, which is what you who voted for the budget have given to the members of the presidency. Public funds from several sources shall be allocated to the same crusaders. And due to the lack of data exchange and information, they may have been also funded from lower levels of government. Therefore, there is no exchange of data between the different, between the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its deputies. Well, then turn to the same person, the same person with the same request to his three, he gets from one, two, or three sources. And what happens now that the presidency has that? What's the data exchange going to be like? The basic assumptions of transparent and efficient spending of public money are not ensured. And when it comes to the assets of the current reserve that is distributed in the framework of the grant item to non-profit organisations, transparency is completely lagging behind. The cabinets of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and its deputies have defined a range of funds that can be allocated. But the allocation of funds, which would normally not have preceded a public call one year, with clearly defined criteria, deadlines and conditions for the allocation of funds of the current reserve. And now the Bureau will have the same thing, at an even bigger amount, and then maybe we'll have an even worse report next year. The public invitation has not been made public for funds awarded to non-profit organisations by the Council of Ministers, as well as by its vice-president. The public, or interested users, were not familiar with the possibility of using the funds of the current reserve. The applications were submitted on the basis of information that the applicants themselves came in their own way. And in some cases, it is precisely those who give, or dispose of, these funds that have informed themselves that applicators are applied to them. This will result in funds, instead of financing and reducing the consequences of natural disasters or financing areas of public interest, financing different associations, sports clubs, religious and humanitarian organisations, individuals, media, and institutions of lower levels of government. And we really have that here. We have a Bogar alliance that has been awarded funds. And now the Presidency has the opportunity to allocate these funds to another 76. There are no clear and reliable allocation criteria for current reserves. There was no public call, and there was no publication of the list of selected users prior to the receipt of the funds. As a consequence, this has justified showing suspicion of corruption and the absence of responsible and transparent use of public funds. And that's what you've given to the BiH presidency, along with all the criticism in both readings, without allowing amendments. There was no reporting on the spending of those funds. There is no obligation to spend these funds. The decision-makers on the distribution of the current reserve rather than responsibly dispose of public funds and introduce financial discipline themselves supported the accidental spending of public funds. Non-transparent procedures and selective choice of users gave individuals direct privileges. And this is what I keep talking about, we have a caste in this country that provides certain users with certain privileges, without public calls, and now you've given this to members of the Presidency for the first time. A former member of the presidency, Mr Radmanović, spoke at the House of Peoples and said – when could the Presidency have been without this for 15 years why is it now being introduced? And you introduced it, you didn't allow amendments even. The SBB Club therefore offered a conclusion which reads: – It is the responsibility of the BiH Presidency to implement mutatis mutantis measures on the use of the current reserve funds recommended by the BiH Audit Office to the Council of Ministers in this Report within 90 days, and to inform this House of steps taken. If it is not done, the same and perhaps even worse report will be given to the BiH presidency next year. And this Dom has a duty not to allow it. Because the presidency, to remind you again, has even more at its disposal now than the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairmanship of two deputies last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6571	Thank you very much. Please, yes, now it's 6:00, so I don't want to cut the discussion short for five minutes, I won't do it on this subject, I'd ask you just to try and tell us what we have in about 5-6 minutes, so it's possible that we might be able to do some other obligations that the members of the college have. Please take care of it. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what you said. First of all, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to give up the discussion so I don't produce a break. I'm not quoting any of this report, I assume you've read it all and there's no need for me to quote it to you right now. But as soon as I got up and didn't get up like that, I'll warn him that I voted against many conclusions in this practice, but I never voted for the conclusion that I was in charge of the presidency. So I never assigned the presidency from this position to anything, because I don't think it's, I don't know what mild term to take, but let's just say it's inappropriate. That's what I meant to say, in other words, that I won't vote for this conclusion in a slightly different way. And by the time I got up, then let me warn the service, but now I'm seriously warning the service, that I got this next material and the next material on the Latin. And to beg that future materials be delivered to me on Cyrillic. Thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6573	Okay, thank you very much. The services have heard this request from you that you're entitled to. I'm asking him to settle for that right. Mr. Predrag Kožul has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6574	Chairman, fellow MPs. Here, I will respect this recommendation of yours to halve this time and be very brief, but I do feel like I need to discuss this report, perhaps in a different way than my colleague Arnaut. At the Committee on Finance and Budget, we have really commended this report unanimously, that it is exhaustive, that it is quality and we particularly commended the recommendations contained in this Report, as something that almost man would say should not be added, but simply focus on them, empower them in this Parliament and in this direction go three conclusions from the Committee. True, I disagreed with all three conclusions. The conclusion concerning the deadlines in which the recommendations will be implemented, in which the Council of Ministers will inform us, really stands. The conclusion that referred this report to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, etc., I did not support it for the simple reason why I believe that this agency, according to its commitment, must look at and see without us. And by referring this part to the Corruption Agency, it seems to me so little populist for one simple reason. We, it seems, and this discussion on the Committee has focused on a small part of this money, as we often do in the story of the budget, the spending of money, the budget items we focus on very small percentages of the budget money that are media, populist and in different ways interesting, but very conveniently next to us are those large amounts of figures that we don't notice and we don't focus on. That's right here. I would say with all due respect to the audit report that, as far as the current reserves are concerned, we have a systemic error, a systemic error. We see here that this large part of the problematic current reserves that are also said, and it is particularly highlighted in this audit report, the highlighted attention, that it is also unintendedly spent. Instead of spending on planned, urgent, necessary flood-type situations last year or before last year, it is spent on covering budget gaps with budget users. And 90% of that money was spent that way. Now, if we have the illusion that based on the recommendations and everything that we're discussing here, or what the audit report found, it's going to change in the coming years, I don't have that kind of illusion. We should either drastically fix, or the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, budgetary users and this Parliament, or drastically improve our planning, or in some way change the legal provisions concerning current reserves, because what we have from the next year is that 90% of the current reserves will not be spent on purpose because there will be no money in the year to this or that institution, for these or those reasons. Some of these reasons can even be taken under the necessary, unpredictable, etc., but a small part of these reasons. So, to think about it, there isn't, I'm going to say again, no one from the Council of Ministers, but to think about it is the very principle of current reserves, the very system of current reserves changes in a way that possibly future audit reports in at least this part of the much of that money, not the 10% discretionary ones, that we don't have negative connotations, so if we need budget holes even though there's no other way, because those in 2014 which we don't have here will be spent in a similar way. In 2015, it will be spent in a similar way, or we will indeed get a new budget planning system that does not involve the intervention of the current 78 reserves as it has been on all budgets, at all levels of the budget throughout the years of the previous, I fear the future. When it comes to those 10% famous I always focus on 6% here this year for the Presidency, 4% for these three men in the Council of Ministers, so I don't know, I'd look at it from a better angle. I read here in this report that most of that money is discreetly divided for treatment. One member of the Council of Ministers spent more on treatment, one for rewarding good students, students, for various cultural and sports events and for many, many religious institutions or... If I were to look at it from one better side, which is usually not done, it seems to me that every mark that is invested in a sports or cultural event is multipled through the social effects of that event. I think it's the same with these religious couples. It seems to me that every brand that's put in for treatment or for child food, as it says here, and I'm going to believe to the best faith that it really is, that every mark like that is a balm on that one wound that exists in that case. And whether or not to focus and eliminate six people, three were directly elected to the election a year ago, members of the Presidency, the three of us in this House have chosen the most responsible functions in the Council of Ministers, whether to really focus so much. I absolutely support both planning, and transparency, and feedback about each such consumption mark, but I wouldn't have with such sensitivity, with such a black view of each mark watched as often seen, here and in discussions especially in the media. So I say that the issue of current reserves is a systemically poorly raised issue and I here, with the absolute acceptance of this report, and particularly those conclusions that focus on the recommendations of the Audit Office, I advocate that in the future, here we also order the Council of Ministers that the issue of current reserves may and systematically resolve how we would not have had these audit reports so black about this relatively small budget item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6575	Thank you very much. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6576	Thank you. Well, I have to look back really on what the esteemed colleague mentioned, and it refers to the human character of these divisions. I think none of us and all of us would like all the citizens of this country to have enough money to treat and they don't need this help from the budget. But it's not okay if the finance minister is in a car accident and then he's giving hospital hospital hospital hospital staff out of his budget. Let him do it out of his private pocket. I don't mean the current one. I mean the former finance minister. It is also wrong for the minister, then deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, to assign money from the budget to his party member for his football club, which is sitting here, to counterpart Košarac. What it's all about is nepotism. We have a grant for sports associations, we have competitions, I hope we have competitions. For me, it would be very interesting to see how much Tango Football Club from eastern Sarajevo has received from the Budget of BiH. According to the official messengers of Republika Srpska, believe me to see the annual amounts from God you would faint to hear them. For me, it's pure nepotism, and that's why I asked this report to be directed to the Corruption Prevention Agency, which, unfortunately, I must say, is unfortunately not responding because everything I'm saying now has been written by the media. And the Corruption Prevention Agency had to react back then, and we haven't heard a word from them. Well, now we want to hear that we ask them. Thank you. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6577	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6578	I thank the chairman. I will actually relate to what my colleague Pandurević said, and esteeming the good will and intent of Mr. Predrag Kožul, I think that what is done and what is being spent from current reserves, both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, are actually making subjects of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina by giving a certain amount of Budžet BiH for treatment, and we are witnessing daily both via Telekom operator and public services and written media parents with sick children are asking for help from good people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not knowing that they may also be able to use this opportunity to ask the Presidency, and also to finance religious and sports events. I can't absolutely not connect these two points, the one that's currently and the one that's funding whether religious or whether extreme certain associations that occur in one way or another are here with some terrorist attacks. I'm not prejudicing, but I'm giving my imagination the will to think about it. So, non-transparent use absolutely encourages this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we have already had for 20 years and should absolutely be put under control and referred to the Corruption Prevention Agency. So I support this proposal from the Finance Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6579	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I really want to express my satisfaction that we have one quality material like this, and really this audit activity is something that needs to be respected, and this needs to be learned and practicalally defined directions and ways to deal with those reserves that are not private reserves, but are reserves and they know why they are used. I'm just asking you to read a few things taken out of this text that will practically, in my opinion, give a real picture of what we're talking about. The findings indicate the handling of significant weaknesses in the process of availability of funds of the current reserve. Instead of the recovery of emergencies, funds were used for the ongoing operations of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. In addition to this, with no criteria, various associations of citizens, sports clubs, religious and humanitarian organisations, as well as individuals, media and lower-level institutions are being supported financially with public funds. Public funds management is a public responsibility entrusted to the institution, as well as an individual. So, absolutely emphasized responsibility for both the institutions and the individual. Based on the revision, it can be concluded that this issue is completely unregulated and full of productivity. And if we look at now and the tables that these funds are deployed nothing else can conclude but that it was done non-transparently, arbitraryly, that it is subject to all types of negative assessments, connotations relating to non-transparent availability of funds. And if that's why I don't think I can accept what my colleague Kožul's saying, I want to believe that one of these documents that we 80 have here will absolutely correct all these shortcomings that are, or at least a good part will correct those shortcomings that have been identified. Of course, if Parliament does not support such a procedure, this report and does not propose any measures that go in this direction, we can never, ever be convinced that we will completely eliminate it from action, but that with a firm faith we can be convinced that a good part of it will be resolved together and then we should never come here to Parliament, nor are these gentlemen who, ladies and gentlemen who have done such an audit report, should expose themselves to the inconveniences of writing these things that absolutely no effect can achieve. So I want to say again, I support all the proposals that go in the direction that these things are directed, channeled, put in order, and not to say if there are significant violations that it is then known to which institutions these things are being forwarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6581	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm probably tired of you already, but I told you, somebody's reading someone's not reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6583	No, no, you're not bored at all, you're using your right, free you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6584	No, no, it's not me... don't, don't, because... because what I'm going to do is represent a political option and it's my duty if nothing else and it's sad it's not funny, because that's why we have what we have. The man is obliged to read what he gets, and it's his obligation to get to know himself because we are here not in front of ourselves, but in front of those who chose us. I've carefully read the gentlemen of this report that you've made. And if I go to cut him down, then I should have a full discussion and I won't because it's time. It would be very interesting if you interpreted multiple users to us, not only to quote them, but to interpret them. That would be very interesting. Second, the criteria and the criteria for the allocation of these funds, especially since it is the state level, the state level. This is the state level, this is not the local community level. And then what these two SBB colleagues were talking about in a literal sense is that it's up to the public's obligations. Therefore, where the funds were directed but were very precisely directed from the reserves which had been made available by the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. I could now, of course, elaborate it in a number of ways. From that help to the little-footed club from that and that, to helping the local one, and especially how I was intrigued that it was possible to help hospitals that were in public health services. You have here, it says, I don't know the Sarajevo Clinical Center Helping 12,000, 20,000, center this, center one, from the reserve, and already there's a mechanism for their real funding. _________(?) 81 [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know, but I just know that these are the things that sting. But then I can't see anywhere, of course I'm very surprised that the person who has provided participation in the next Olympic Games gets 1,000 marks, and someone whose name I've never even heard of gets 15,000 for sports results. So Larisa Cerić is 1,000 and some is 15,000. I've never heard of it. I've never read it. I've tried it on the Internet. So no one can tell me that it's not something that's been done, or that it's not called corruption. And Mrs. Pandurević, Miss Pandurević, is right, why don't you go ahead, if there's nothing to tell us there's nothing, everything's clean, everything's fine. Why should those who are obliged not to follow this? I can't figure it out. Simply, please chess club chair, but chess team's nowhere to go to chess Olympics. She's gone. It's just like an example, kid. Or, you're waving your head at a colleague since you're in sports, no, I'm not just confirming this. The BiH basketball team is going to the European Championship in France. I don't see her, I don't see her, but that's why I see the Association of Support, Association, Football Club, Football Club, FK, Association, and so on, and it's very interesting, very precise. And here it appears -- not the interest of the state, but exactly who wants to read this, and this will come to the citizens, to the journalists, precisely by the ethnic division, not by quality, not by what needs to be achieved as a result, not by real help, but by ethnicity. That's our problem, that's our problem. If this is how we think it's still done and the gentlemen who make it, it's not me, I'm not criticizing how you did, but because when this is done, it's just some letter that stays, so it's done, and no one actually controls what's done here. It just has to start talking like that and very open. Look at you, so for schooling, here I am now saying, so I've been with you in the Federal Parliament, with some others and with you, and you know well that I've always dropped out to give students a scholarship, that I've never seen him in my eyes, you know that well. And today my cobwebs from here are going for a scholarship of two children. It's my private business, it's my private right, but I can't figure out what the criteria are for these exceptional students because I contacted those who have been declared students of the generation. So, published last name names, called one by one, they'll be here now with a request to help them too. None of those who are called students of the generation have received funds here, and here writes an exceptional student, so it says here. So we have a lot of leaks. And I think that, again, Miss Pandurević is right and that this should be done, let the authorised institutions say that everything is in the best order, okay, we'll chat our ears and say everything is in the best order, let them say that the funds aren't meant to be known, so let's keep this under control by those who need to control. Thank you. I'm three minutes short, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6586	Thank you for that. You're very observant. Mr. Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present colleagues and colleagues. Well, look, I took the floor as a member of the Commission and as an MP in Parliament who didn't have the space to show something that bothered him through the budget adoption procedure, and I was in the way of this current reserve. I was prepared to be an amendment and it would certainly work in this direction if that budget reserve were eliminated as a cost which, here, proved to be largely 82 cases and non-transparent and that the public money was spent in a non-transparent way. In this direction I also discussed on the Commission and supported Mrs Pandurević's proposal that here in Parliament or parliamentary benches or MPs come an official report if that is true, here's what I am now suggesting through some indications that it is, and that's what the Board of Appeal said, that this is exactly the place for corruption, that is, taking advantage of a public position to achieve an appropriate benefit. I don't think anyone in this country deserves and not even those six people to spend a single brand of public money the way he wants it, by the criteria he does, because the inevitable thing is that he's going to go into corruption and the inevitable is that he's going to take advantage of the public position. This is not the goal of democracy, this is not the goal of the citizens who voted us in this House of Representatives, the goal is that what the funds it has are spent in a transparent way through the Budget Law. Budgetary reserve increased in the 2015 budget by 1.529.000 KM. It was, I remind you, 3,700,000 now over 5,300,000. We were all under public pressure not so long ago or several months ago about the, conditionally said, white bread, which this year should be paid about 280,000 from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, and here we are talking about some 5,000 thousand marks which are traditional so far that have not been spent under the Law on the financing of BiH institutions and that Article 17 is precisely specified in Article 2 where these funds are spent – financing emergency and emergency expenditures, financing of costs of international disputes and arbitration, financing of new institutions, etc. The intention of my action in the adoption of the Budget Law, but I did not use that intention through the amendment phase, is that this part of the current reserve is eliminated as a cost and that in that part we open the space of a legal and non-corruption space for some who want to be privileged and have the opportunity to spend their resources in the way they think and by the criteria they define. For these reasons, these are the conclusions set by the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, – The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to, within 90 days, report to the House of Representatives on the implementation of audit recommendations. And I will remind us here that the recommendations are that, as soon as possible, the rules and procedures for the use of such funds, the designated areas of special public interest, the clear conditions and procedures to be applied in the event that the decision on the intervention of the funds of the current reserve is made by both the chair and its vice-presidents, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, to establish effective control and control mechanisms, i.e. an effective implementation function, i.e. reports on the effects of using the current reserve funds. I don't think there's anything controversial to say on this subject, say how these funds have been spent so far and reminded, here are the representatives of the SBB, that this report for 2012 and 2013 when their chairman was a member of the Council of Ministers and when, through the decisions of the Council of Ministers, he could have partly influenced the spending of these funds. But here, on the other hand, I think that this report that the Office of Audit has delivered to the parliamentary procedure should be followed in this way through certain discussions, namely the conclusions that the mistakes that have been happening so far do not occur to the Council of Ministers in a new calling for the spending of the funds of the current reserve to be transparent, to be legal, not to go in the direction of corruption, i.e. taking advantage of a public position in achieving a certain personal benefit. In this way, if we adopt these conclusions and if the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance adopts the recommendations of the Audit Office, we will make the next report in 2016 for spending the funds of 2015 more quality. But whether he's better or not, he needs to insist on it, and as much as he does, as they say alive and healthy, I'm going to insist in this direction that these six people, no matter who they are or where they come from, whether they're from my own or some other political mile, lose this asset and thus save them from acting corruptly, or not using public function in an inappropriate way. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6588	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6589	I thank the chairman. I mean, this is really amazing, as if we hadn't discussed in the last session the budget at which only the SBB representatives pointed to a 6% problem of the current reserve that the Bureau's draft budget law gave itself, and then adopted this House express procedure in two readings. And Mr. Salko Sokolović here says he had an amendment prepared to make it impossible. And Mr. Salko Sokolović voted for an emergency procedure according to the service of this House. By voting for an emergency procedure, he should have known or knew he couldn't table the amendment. So something doesn't add up. You had the amendment prepared and then you voted to make it impossible for yourself to submit the amendment. So I absolutely don't understand what you mean by that. We wanted to make an amendment, we announced, you revoted us, you adopted it by emergency procedure, you quoted a member of the Rules of Procedure who created the assumption that the Budget Act was a minor volume or degree of complexity. It's the most illogical formulation for the Budget Law, so there's no... and a higher degree of complexity than in the Budget Law. And you have supported Mr. Sokolović's view of this by an emergency procedure and thus disabled the amendments including, as you say, yourself. As for Mr. Novaković's comments that you do not want to assign the presidency, I think it is better for this Parliamentary Assembly to be in charge of the presidency than to allow the Presidency to be in charge of the citizens of this country. You do not want to put the presidency in charge of the form, and you are avoiding the essence, which is that the BiH presidency will continue to employ the citizens of this country and this will continue to lead towards the effects spoken by Governor Kozarić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6590	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Isaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6591	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know, I'm very surprised now, given that we've already discussed this on the Finance and Budget Committee. So, one general surprise. Why? Well, only in the last session we discussed the budget here, these points of the agenda. On the Finance and Budget Commission, the very ones who voted for this were against, promising for the 2016 budget to be against this. So it hasn't been 15 days since. And now we're in a funny situation, we have for 2015, we're here, and for 2016, we're not. And so, this second part when it comes to the Council of Ministers, the use of these funds by the Council of Ministers. So, you mentioned Mr. Radončić, Mr. Radončić was neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor the deputy, so he could not even use these funds. So that's where we have to fence right away, that's not, those allegations aren't true. So, a very vague situation, 15 days before this we were for these reserves, now we're not for these reserves, we're going to go to 2016, we're going to be against it. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6592	Thank you very much. And we still have Jasmina Emrić, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6593	Thank you. At the Finance and Budget Commission session, I commended the Office's work for delivering a high-quality very precise revision of the use of liquid reserve funds, from which we can clearly see that the current reserve in 2012 and 2013 was not used in accordance with the law, because we know that Article 17. The law on the financing of BiH institutions determines the use of the current reserve, and the purpose for which these funds can be used. It seems to me that only in one case for the engagement of helicopters was the intervention from budget reserve funds, emergency and emergency expenditure were financed. Everything else is contrary to Article 17 of the Law. It is also important to highlight, and my comment was also at the Commission's session that grants to non-profit organisations were spent or allocated non-transparently. They were allocated without established criteria and procedures, there was no public advertising, or otherwise there was no notification of the award procedure. And that's what's the problem with using the current reserve. I do not think it is a problem in terms of how much the problem is intransparency and inability for all citizens, who are interested and who are in need of use of these funds, to be able to participate in this public procedure. And what we have received from the Ministry's representatives is that exactly the Ministry, or the Budget Sector, would like to have clear procedures, clear criteria for using the funds of the current reserve. Of course, I do not want to reduce the justification of execution and financial assistance granted to these users at all by this discussion. I think it was probably necessary, but the way it is done it is not suitable for established practice. And our insistence, and the Budget and Finance Commission, seems almost unique here, is that we are changing that practice, as far as I understand it. So somewhere, around 10 million were spent, of which 7.5 million are financed by current activities in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that show? This shows that there was no quality planning, and therefore the budget planning process for all institutions that are budgetary users must respond in a timely manner, i.e. to make them a proper and realistic assessment of the needs of the budget. In this way, we will not be able to use the current reserve to finance current activities in institutions. I do not need to suggest that this practice is contrary to, we can say, the practice of countries that have a very well-organised and transparent financial framework, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, we are seeking it, and therefore this report is a very good instrument for improving the existing situation. A very good instrument, i.e. we can say the bat in the hands of the MPs in this House of Representatives if we want to achieve this financial responsibility and transparency in spending public funds. Based on an analysis of the user's review by the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and the Vice-President, we can conclude that they were precise in spending the budget reserve, because they spent everything they planned, identical amounts. Chairman of the Council of Ministers in 2012 – 46,200 marks, but so were Deputys Nikola Špirić – 46,200 marks, followed by the chairman, and of course Deputy Zlatko Lagumdžija, by example to his colleagues, assigned the same amount – 46,200 marks. What a coincidence. How could such needs have been to fund these user needs? In 2013, the chairman of the Council of Ministers assigned – 114, Deputy Nikola Špirić – 113,983, to 17 KM less than the chairman, and Deputy Zlatko Lagumdžija – 113,980 for 20 marks less than 85 chair. So, they obviously have a deal on the current reserve spending. And we are witnessing that, at that very time, savings, savings and public spending control and public finances are being advocated. I believe that the social problems of our citizens should not be solved in this way, this should be addressed institutionally, not that the chairman and deputy council of ministers should be dealt with selectively by solving these problems. And therefore, we have a completely selective choice, a choice according to the chairman's or vice president's position and in what way and to whom he will allocate funds from the current reserve. And here, of course, there is discrimination. All those citizens who did not have access to these funds have been discriminated against. Why is there not a single citizen from the UN-San canton who has used the funds of the current reserve, or associations of citizens, or those who have certainly had the need to be represented in the use of the funds of the current reserve. Here, especially in the last chapter, parallelism and multiple use of funds are shown, and that is what shows the incoordination between the chairman, vice-president and the ministries. So there's no coordination, there's parallelism and multiple funding of the same users. Finally, I would like to stress that I fully support the recommendations set out in 5. The chapter of this report. I believe that the same are sufficient to improve transparency, accountability and control of the use of current reserve funds and I am committed to making all the recommendations of the Audit Office finally and implemented by the executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6594	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6595	I thank the chairman. This is really amazing. Mr. Emrić, I'm sorry, but you voted 15 days ago for the Budget Act in the first reading for the emergency procedure, and for the Budget Act in the second reading. Here, if it is a mistake, here is the official report of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, namely these services. And then repeat the story we told 15 days ago. We told you 15 days ago how these funds are used. You are now quoting three former members of the College, the chairman and his deputy council of ministers as they spent it. Well, this year Bakir Izetbegović, Dragan Čović and Mladen Ivanić will spend 108,000 marks of the budget reserve, the current reserves. And Mr. Novaković's problem is that we task them to introduce a system of transparency, and it is no problem that they continue to employ the citizens of this country. That's really amazing. So let's show your principle and then support this conclusion that we've offered. This conclusion only requires the Presidency to introduce transparency. Since you have already given them 108,000 marks each, all of you, except for 4 SBB representatives, 3 SBB representatives and Mr Backović, have all voted in favour of the Budget Bill, for 108,000 marks to this three in the first reading for the emergency procedure and in the second reading. And now you're all suddenly against it. And this review office report came to Parliament in November and we all had access to it. That's why we told you why this money is being spent. You could all read it. And it's not right for everyone to act responsible now. And here, just to quote, perhaps the most important phrase of why we should support our conclusion – in the EU, the principles of transparency and good governance are 86 highlighted to this extent that they are equating with basic human rights. All we ask of the Presidency is that they do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6596	Thank you very much. Mr. Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6597	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's what we're going to do. Let's sort these out. So it's not controversial, Mr. Arnaut, your conclusion, but if you carefully read the Commission's opinion on finance and budget and conclusion 2 and the recommendations to which that conclusion is called, and the recommendations are by the Office of Audit, you can see that it's one and the same. Therefore, once we adopt this report, we will assign the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance to, within 90 days, do what you seek with your conclusion. Now you are the only one who insists on your conclusion and be the one who is correct and realize that the text that you propose is contained in the Opinion, i.e. in the obligations set by the Audit Office or made as a recommendation to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. But let me just remind you, if you read page six carefully. Reports say they're in progress in '12. And '13. through the funds of the current reserve spent 10 million budgets. From this amount, more than 7.5 million have been spent through Council decisions to finance the ongoing activities of institutions. The remaining amount, according to the Council of Ministers' decisions, in which your president sat, means, by the decisions of the Council of Ministers and the chairman and vice-president, it was spent, through an item of grenades, on non-profit organisations. Now that he didn't read when the Stolac chess club was being allocated those funds or he wasn't interested in it, that's another thing. But let's be correct and fair here, so this should be prevented for a future period, so if we have adopted the budget should be through this transparent manner or through respecting the recommendations of the Audit Office come into the situation that these possible corrupt or spheres of interest of the individual are prevented for the next period, and in 2016 whoever is alive should end this space.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6598	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6599	Mr. Arnaut reacted in a way to say that I voted for Budget for 2015, which is true. I voted as a member of the opposition. Why I voted these are my things and I have the right to express my opinions and to act in this House as I believe it should. And I believe that the budget of the institutions for 2015 should have been adopted even though in the discussion I challenged the way it was done. Although I am aware that we were unable to act on those items, and probably that the second stage of reading was also most likely to end the Budget as it was proposed. But with my vote for Budget in 2015, I have no intention of giving any opportunity to abuse that support. And I will therefore respond with the right to abuse, possible misuse of funds, not only from the current reserve, but from all the funds planned for the budget for 2015. Therefore, in this part too, I would like to make it clear that I am raising my voice against it and that institutions are starting to edit the financial framework in 87 which is operated by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And of course I will also contribute as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and in accordance with my humble experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6600	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6601	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My replica refers to this conclusion from the SBB Club. It is okay for the Bureau to use this money in a transparent manner and to adopt certain acts, regulations and follow the recommendations of the audit. However, how do we order the Presidency, where do we get the right to ask the Presidency to inform us about what they're doing? Well, Mr. Arnaut, you've been sitting in the presidency, did it ever occur to you that Parliament has entrusted the Presidency and informed us, has charged you from your office, from the presidency's jurisdiction. Parliament has no right to do that, no right. Tomorrow, please, here's Milorad Dodik as Dedamraz 10 million marks, not 100 grand, 10 million in his president's budget that he shares as Deda mraz. And we are fighting it, we are fighting through the National Assembly, we are fighting through amendments, but we will never let this Parliament, because it is not competent, Milorad Dodik says – reduce its resources and deliver a report to us. There's no telling whose jurisdiction it is. The BiH Parliament does not have this jurisdiction and that is why we cannot support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6602	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6603	Well, I only volunteered to replicate because my colleague Arnaut has no further right to discuss, in replication. So now I expect the other three colleagues to press the key so they can replicate what I'm about to say, since I decided to sleep here, so I don't care if the session lasts until 9:00 or 11:00. So now we're even in that sense because I'm going to stay in Sarajevo like my colleagues in Sarajevo, so I'm not in a hurry anywhere and I can have 23:00 free to discuss this. I'm kidding, of course, this part of what I was going to say was said by colleague Pandurević and I really think that transparency in spending funds is necessary, but I also think that looking for and borrowing the presidency is not the same. And if you, colleague Arnaut, had written what you finally said - that we were asking the Presidency, believe me, I wouldn't have said it, but you said we were in charge of the presidency, and there's a big difference. I don't want to make any such conclusion in this House that I'm going to owe someone who doesn't have to listen to me and who doesn't have to respect what I'm in charge of. So, if I'm in charge of someone, then I'm going to put in charge of whoever it is that I'm in charge of respecting them and that justice is to me if he didn't do it. That's why I said it, and I don't have any problem with it, so I don't know what the matter is, which I would have a problem with not borrowing someone who doesn't have to listen to me. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6604	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm really gonna be very brief. Of course, it's not that the opposition must vote against, but it is a principled position, a matter of principle. If you have allowed your voice or supported something to be followed by an emergency procedure and thus denied yourself the right to act as an amendment, then it is already somehow anachronous to discuss it in a way that indicates that it is a problem. And now we no longer have this opportunity to act the way it was in the process of bringing this, at least if nothing else gives your conscience in this way to calm down that man tried to do everything and to point to a problem that could come out in a way, in a non-transparent way of spending money. So this isn't about preventing someone, it's about the fact that the possibilities of non-transparent spending are being controlled and that this money would be, as I would say, immutable to a society where people have an equal chance. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6606	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6607	Well, it's not a classic replica, but I just called to say a few sentences, because we're misquoting it here. In fact, when it comes to the presidency's responsibilities, it would draw attention to all colleagues that according to the BiH Constitution, one of the presidency's responsibilities is to implement decisions by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And that we just keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6608	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it? If no one answers the word, I'll close the argument. We're going to the next item on the agenda, and that's the point, Ad. 11. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Accommodation of Professional Military Persons in the Ministry of Defence of BiH", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was delivered in the procedure on 30.12.2014. The financial and budgetary committee in charge of the Report submitted its opinion on 28.05.2015. The Commission adopted the Report and referred it to a further procedure and proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: 89 – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Ministry of Defence to, as soon as possible, draw up and deliver an Action Plan for the Implementation of Audit Recommendations under the Report on the Review of Impact on the subject: "Accommodation of Professional Military Persons in the Ministry of Defence of BiH". I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 12th agenda, that's Ad. 12. Report on BiH's Law Department's 2014 work
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6611	I thank the chairman. I said the same thing in the Constitutional Commission session, so on page 10. The report on the work of the pravobranilaštvo, and I would like to point out immediately that the report has been very correctly done, uh, that, apart from what I am about to point out, there is not much disputed, except possibly something that counterpart Novaković also pointed out at the session of the Constitutional Commission, which is why I called before him, because I see that he likes to speak after me, this. But what I'm going to look at is on page 10 of the state property issue, so. And the first thing, there's been a lot of talk about state property, and in particular the role of the Attorney's Office when it comes to the protection of state property, and I think in any case it took a little more attention than really three very short paragraphs to this issue of state property. However, what is fundamentally really controversial, which has been found that when it comes to the legal regulations that regulate this matter, the situation remains the same as in the previous period, which is not, it is not disputed, but, then it says – which prevents us from accomplishing our tasks in the field of protection of state property. I think this sentence is really tense, because it's not just compared to last year, it's not like nothing's changed, we have a legal regulation on this maltene unchanged since the Dayton Agreement until today. And now I can't accept that just because new regulations governing this matter haven't been adopted in the past year, the finding that this prevents the Office from accomplishing its tasks in the field of protection of state property. I really think that it's tense and, uh, I think that in the frameworks that we're working on, unfortunately, it takes a much more proactive approach to this issue, especially since it's, therefore, about the area of protection of state property. And it is clearly mentioned here that it is not just state property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but state property and outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we all know, the public is really justifiably gunned down that Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets are going down abroad, and that's not just the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets abroad, I think that's the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Less than a few kilometers away from this building we have various state buildings, or state property that collapses, barracks are the best example. And here, there is now a debate on where the Office of Presidents of the Federation and its Vice-Presidents, i.e. Vice-President and Vice-President of the Federation, will be held, uh, so that I really can't accept the justification that due solely to 90 lacks of legal, new legislation in the last year, I would accept that you say the difficulties, but I cannot accept the finding that this prevents the Office from accomplishing its tasks in the field of protection of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6612	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? If no one ever answers their word again, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report on activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2014 The report was delivered in the procedure on 14 April 2015. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its opinion on the Report on 28.05.2015. The Commission adopted the Report and referred it to a further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 14th agenda, Ad. 14. Consider the Mladen Bosić parliamentary initiative, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (the BiH Official Messenger), number 79/14, I launch the Initiative for inclusion in the agenda point: "Information of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for the Prices of Mobile Operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina"
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6618	Mr. Chairman, members of the working presidency, distinguished MPs. Don't mind me reporting for this, but I wanted to say, we've submitted this with the belief that we won't be elected to those bodies. And it doesn't really matter because they're single bodies, but it's not a good thing that we're not building a relationship where parliamentary democracy is based on a scale of position and opposition. And it doesn't have to go through at all, it doesn't matter at all, but let's think about whether it contributes to this, here's everything we saw in today's session being, in a way, directed in a direction that will allow for a stronger impact... Parliament. Don't let this bind you to anything, but it's not good when the opposition is out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-1.u6619	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? If no one ever answers my question again, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 18th agenda, that's Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly The Joint College of both homes has established that the proposal for a conclusion in accordance with Article 48(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is compatible with the internal market. BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures and the established obligation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The House College has proposed that Members of the Interim Joint Commission: Predrag Kožul, Nermina Kapetanović and Đorđo Krčmar. Members of the SBB Club proposed that MP Damir Arnaut, MPs Zaim Backović and jasmin Emrić propose the appointment of MPs Zaim Backović. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. 93 We move to point 19, Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the Bosnia and Herzegovina cross-border programme – Serbia under the 2013 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance
