ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u180	Let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives, if any, of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you all and I agree that we will continue to hold a constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was suspended on 29 January 2015, as we consider the second item of the adopted agenda, the session will continue to discuss the remainder of the second agenda, which is – the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of the People's House. To continue the constitutional session, there are 15 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. So we're going to agenda two, and that's Ad. 2. Selection of the chairperson, first and second vice-president of the House of Nationals First, we should propose candidates for the House of Speakers. In this case, the seat of the chairman belongs to a candidate from the Croatian or Serbian people. Then we propose the first deputy chairman of the Bosniak or Serb people, and then the second deputy chairman of the Croatian or Bosniak people. I would like to remind you that Articles 22, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations envisioned the following – the chairman of the House, automatically rotates on the post, without voting, every eight months, starting from the election day of the chairman. I ask the chairman of the Croatian or Serbian People's Club to propose a candidate for the People's House of Speakers. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u182	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, delegates to the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to suggest the following – since we at the Serbian People's Club have not yet come to the names that we can propose, I would ask for the delay of this session in seven days, in order to try to come up with solutions that would be satisfactory and which 2 of these high Houses deserve. I think we had a similar situation, and when we broke up the first session, I think this would be on track for the best solutions, because this dom, as the Rules of Procedure says, how it works, I think we need to achieve as much agreement as possible, so that these four years we can answer the difficult questions that are in front of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u183	Thank you very much. Is there more? So we have received a proposal for one conclusion, that this House, the continuation of the session, is delayed for the next seven days. We need to be clear about this conclusion. Please, Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u184	I thank the esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed present. On behalf of the Bosniak Club, I would like to request a 20-minute break before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u185	Okay, thank you very much. So, at the request of the Club of Delegates from the Bosniak People's Order, a break by 11:35 a.m. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] We continue with the work and the word I give, Mr. Halid Genjac, who requested a break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u187	I thank the chairman. As is known, at a session held on 29 January, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, I asked for a break for the necessary additional consultations. It's been 14 days, the consultations have been carried out, and by our understanding, we have the assumption that we should continue our work today. If you get something and what you get from the new 10 days, it's not clear to me until the end, I have to admit. We'll try to finish this session today, but as long as we hear the argument of what it means to continue and what it gets, we'll carry out further consultations. So what we thought was the problem and what we needed to solve was 14 days. I really expect someone to explain what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u188	Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to take your word for it? Mr. Martin Raguž, come in. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u189	I would like to thank Mr. President, and I would like to welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs and all those present. I called before the break, but now after what Mr. Genjac said, I only want to say one sentence, since last time I was restrained about postponing the session. So, even these 15 days obviously didn't solve this situation, which led to arguments being drawn that this session was delayed 15 days ago. So we expect, now, the argument of those who want to put it off. And I'm only going to say one sentence that I said then, so those who took public responsibility, that they have a parliamentary majority at all levels, should practice that responsibility. I want to make that clear as a political position here and that's their responsibility. We do not mind, however, that we are not part of these parliamentary majoritys, that this country should receive institutions and that, in accordance with the mandate that they exercise power and address issues of interest for this country. Everything else is, in my opinion, a continuation of political games, this one, which I don't want to give personal legitimacy to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u190	I thank Mr. Raguž. Is there more? Mr. Ognjen Tadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think this situation, as Mr. Raguž put it, should really have been explained by the promoter, Mr. Rodić, who made this proposal, should have said what it was about. Today, before this session, we had a working-consultative meeting that was related to today's session, I am talking about the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, and during that meeting, there was an open possibility that the club as a whole, although it was not mentioned what conditions it was about, was behind the proposal here, specifically, the names of Mr. Babalj or me, as a member of the College of the House of Peoples. So, to be supported by all members of the Club and Mr Nović and Radmanović and Rodić. We have expressed our skepticism on such an option, knowing that such an option involves the participation of SNSD president in these talks, and he has repeatedly done his public appearances, even ordering that we will not know, Mr. Babalj and I will be very sad, crying etc. He made clear how he felt about all of us here, including my distinguished colleagues from the Serbian People's Club. I take this in that sense as a must-seek time to provide support to Mr. Babalj or me. I can publicly say here in front of everyone that if any of the other delegates in the order of the Serb people want to give us that support, as potential candidates, we accept it immediately and now. And we don't have any problem with Mr. Babalj, any of me supporting all five delegates in the order of the Serb people who are members of the Serbian People's Club, so there's no problem. And as far as we're concerned, whenever they decide, we'll accept it. After all, I think, regardless of these party differences, that we will in the meantime build this kind of trust that there will certainly be full support for either Mr. Babalj or me, within the Club of Serbian Delegates, if one of us finds himself in the College of the House of Peoples. If there's room for it, I believe more that we can achieve it right now, that kind of consent than if we postpone it. Because if we postpone it, then Mr. Dodik participates in it, inevitably, and he's already told us what he thinks about 4 of it and told us that he doesn't consider us even representatives of the Serbian people, told us that we can't represent the RS, told us anything. You see, we're not going to deal with numbers, I got the support of 297,000 people, over 44% of voters who went to elections in the election race for the President of the Republic, Mr. Dodik was only 1% more than me. It never occurred to me that I was opening up that kind of controversy with him, because I think she's inappropriate in a democratic country. But his public opinion, apparently only goes in one direction, is that any possibility of forming power in BiH's common bodies is shattered. I remember the old one – don't trust the Danajac when they wear presents, and I can hardly believe in different developments. I know that at this point there is a majority that can form the Colgius House of the Peoples and we all know who makes it. Putting this off, it only makes sense for one reason, which is that sometimes someone doesn't say later – that's what you didn't adopt. When it comes to the public's interest in the RS and the Federation of BiH to get out of this mud that we're all in together, I find it difficult for them to understand the gravity of the argument. Because we're not here for ourselves, so now we're meeting each other and all kinds of different, possibly, guy's vanity -- if you didn't ask me when I wanted to ask you here, and you didn't ask me when I wanted to, this or that. And it takes a very important thing to understand, past session delays and motives have nothing to do with what is being done today. Last time we made it very clear, it was that since more colossals formed power, that one phase would not happen to reach another stage, because of its efforts to agree, it was a way of maintaining trust and without verifying trust, and we achieved it. This isn't it today. However, if it will satisfy someone's need to say – so I told him, so we did, so we suggested it, and they had to accept it, etc. etc. I mean, I don't have a problem with that, I'm not here for myself. I can say that that solution for me is unnecessary, because if you want to support Mr. Babalj or me, you can do it now. You can do it now. And if there are conditions related to the club's work, you can present them immediately, we will accept them because we want the Serbian People's Club to work as a single club. If it's going to be a fourth question, especially Mr. Dodik after the views he's made, it doesn't make any sense. Then it's just some kind of, let's say, I told him, he told me, where we came from. From what I understand, it's Monday at 11:00 that scheduled sequel, right, that's a suggestion, if I understand, in our consultations. If it's Monday at 11:00, if it's Friday at 10:00, if it's for three years at any time, here's everything. You just have to understand, change is something that is inevitable, whenever they come and we're part of these changes. That public needs to know, it's not a story for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u192	Thank you to the distinguished delegate, Tadić. The Honorable delegate, Nebojša Radmanović, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u193	Dear ladies, gentlemen of the delegates, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that from one perfectly normal request, one normal request in every club, we've come into a situation to discuss something unnecessary. I am sorry that Mr. Tadić continued here today, with nothing caused by a pre-election campaign mentioning often the man he lost to in those elections. I don't think this is what this House needs, especially with regard to the request to postpone and consult further on what the 5th proposal is today. I must say that we are entering a situation that is also not needed at the beginning, which refers to the previous request of the SDA Club, or the Bosniak Club that requested a postponement, which we all immediately accepted. Today, when we asked to try to reach a consensus, we were not allowed to do so. I think it's a bad start for all of us. It was good and it was simple, if we agreed to go through with it, we'd been looking for seven days, maybe less, and we'd end this. If you can't do that, Mr. Chairman, let's vote. Of course, I must say, this wasn't about what Mr. Tadić was talking about. We're looking for a break to try to reach a concentration at the club. We believe that we should not choose each other... the chairman, but that clubs should be unique when they suggest something, at least on the outside. We don't have that consensus at the Serbian Club and we tried to get there. We think we have a way. You don't let us, here we are not allowed from the club, and neither are you from other clubs, and that's not good for starting this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u194	Thank you. Sir, the esteemed delegate, Mr. Tadić, is correcting the false allegations, the replica is whether.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u195	It's two corrections. First I didn't lose, she lost the RS, and you see it by her duties, problems, crime, corruption and everything else. Maybe it suits you, I hope most citizens don't respond. The second guilty allegation, we had the first session of the Club of Delegates 15 days ago, at which Mr. Babalj and I were told – we have three, you have two, it's ours, it, it, you have nothing. What they would say – if the lie was not a lie to the horn, then Mr Nović was elected to the chairman by the majority, for his deputy Mr Rodić, and Mr Radmanović was then in the form of a proposal for a member of the College. We then warned you that it was not good, that no one had ever done it in any nation, what you did then. We even asked you to - let's let Mr. Babalj or I be the deputy club chief's office, just to participate in the processes, that we're not the 13th pig. We asked to maintain that something that the citizens of the RS, our people and the National Assembly who chose us are expecting from us. So, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. All of this has been rejected as less important, all of it has been rejected with a remark – don't talk about democracy and politics here, you know what's what. Okay. We didn't choose that kind of work, we had nothing to do with it, we washed our hands out of it. We're totally washing our hands out of it. We are not for this, but when we are brought into a situation where the College is formed or unformed, so the political parties that have received support, SDA, HDZ, DF not to list all who will participate in this, etc. They have an obligation to these people to form power in the joint bodies of BiH. Mr Nović is still a minister, he is still a minister, and from the opposition as a party. Little doesn't even make sense to people, like this, I'm telling you, if you understand that we're not here for ourselves to entertain each other, but to look at us 4 million people, if we're going to start pulling this out of the mud, then you're going to see things in other eyes, then you're going to have a discourse of a responsible politician who participates in a democratic process, not someone who's here for his own personal interest. Especially interested in how I'm gonna tell someone about this or tell someone today. 6 So, let's stop by there, is it Friday at 10:00 or Monday at 11:00, whenever you want, or do you want it in three years? Here, three years from now, suggest a solution to delay, three years from now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u196	Time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u197	You won't be able to tell after this that someone didn't respect you. So we all respect you, you just have to respect other people, especially the public of the RS who is looking at this the most.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u198	Thank you. Sir, if I've noticed correctly, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u199	I have to react a little bit, now I'm discussing as a delegate, and that's what I said on behalf of the club after my break. It is very good and necessary and of course useful for the atmosphere of agreement, compromise, co-operation, understanding to be present here in this House. And we've always done that, and we'll always do that. However, for the sake of full correctness, the last request of the Bošnjak Club to postpone, or interrupt, the session and ask for additional time for the necessary consultations, we know why it was. We requested, on the one hand, that some connection be established to the government and the participation of coalition partners at the entity level in the Federation be secured with a state level and that ended. It was also a time to need consultations within the Serbian Club, obviously for which there were needs, to be carried out. That was 15 days ago. And we really calculated that those 14-15 days were enough to carry out the consultations, what happened in the Federation, it turned out to have been settled, the arrangements were reached, and we figured that today it was really, all assumptions secured to solve this issue. However we look, from whatever position we look at, whatever party, this is really urgent. Our arrival here today costs money. We can leave Sarajevo today so we don't do anything, but it'll be like we did, and the new sequel will cost too. You know that Mrs. Mogerina's arrival is being prepared to sign a joint statement and address her to a joint session of both homes. It's in about ten days. For that session, we need to have a college and this Home, so you can make an appointment. We have to have a college to schedule a session, to choose committees and the House of Peoples and the Joint Commissions. So these are all the reasons that point to urgency and therefore I seem to be asking me a question – is there any particular reason to postpone, to postpone? So, I'm not exactly some arguments that might explain enough, but to work out our needs and our co-operation and for understanding, maybe we should schedule a session Friday at 10:00, get on with this issue and get on with it. There's no need for distant, so here or a day or two or seven, for the necessary consultations is enough, those consultations we've heard are necessary. So let's solve this issue and approach the House's constitution, appoint committees, start adopting laws, start holding sessions. So, if this proposal would be some kind of compromise, and if it's some sort of dating, please give it to me about this proposal, to schedule a session on Friday and finish this issue as well. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u200	I thank the esteemed delegate, Genjac. Mr Dragutin Rodić, an esteemed delegate, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u201	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates. I just want to say a few words for a second, since my motives when I asked for a delay weren't at all the ones we heard in the lab. I'm not going to join, especially with my colleague Tadić's grades at the club, because I'm having a different club and I don't need to talk about it, I've worked with a good part of the people here in the last term and I've never been a braker of the process, so I don't think I'm gonna be now. There is no need for anyone, of course, to be a parliamentary debate, to convince me or our colleagues, to be absolutely clear to me by parliamentary majority, it is quite clear to me how and in which direction the agreements are going, but if we are to be honest until the end, and last time we were asked to postpone for 14 days, they were the same reasons that were then to be further defined in some other clubs, because when we entered the session, they were not the same parameters as today. My motive was not related either to the Bosniak People's Club or to the Croatian People's Club, my motive was purely within the Serbian People's Club, to try to reach certain solutions. I was convinced that we could, and now I suggest, just to be clear about what I said, the costs are on Friday and Monday, we finish this story, there's a parliamentary majority and we're done with the job and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u202	Thank you. I find that there are no more applications for discussion. We have two suggestions. One, is anyone still picking up? Mr. Čolak, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u203	I'd like to ask for another short break of just five minutes, we're not going to walk away from here. So I'd ask you to stay inside, max, maybe it'll be two minutes, but five at most.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u204	I'm taking a five-minute break, on request.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u205	Don't go any further, we'll do it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u206	The Croatian People's Club. Pause We're going back to work. Is there a need for Mr. Čolak to. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u208	Very short. I only needed additional consultations, because if there was a delay, Friday would not be acceptable to us from the Croatian Club, so I wanted you to know this. So, every other date that suits us, whether it's Monday, or in seven days, of course if it's not voted that way, then we're going to define ourselves today as the club has already agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u209	Thank you. We have two suggestions now. One proposal, therefore, is for Mr Rodić, to postpone this session, to continue the session within seven days, to continue the second proposal by Mr Halid Genjac, to take place at 10:00 p.m. on Friday. Here's the word from the distinguished delegate, Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u210	Just for the sake of correctness. So this proposal was proposed by the delegate Halid Genjac. I remind you, last time to postpone the session was also the proposal of the delegate Halid Genjac, whom we all unanimously accepted. This isn't about a proposal from the Bosniak Club. Last time there was a proposal for a break from the Bošnjak klub, and after the discussion there was a proposal from the delegate Halid Genjac to postpone due to the need for further consultations on the election of the College, and we all accepted that. This proposal, which I have now proposed as some possible compromise, since it is not acceptable, obviously it is not, is not answered in due course, I withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u211	Thank you. We have, therefore, only one suggestion. Please prepare, and that is to continue the first constitutive session of the House of Nations within seven days. Please professional service yes, vote now. So we have a delay of 7, against 6, abstention 2. So I realize that there is a general and there is an entity majority and the session is delayed for the next seven days. Are we going to agree on the exact date today or are we going to send a notice to all the delegates again? Do we have a proposal? It's seven days on Tuesday. So, can we continue on Tuesday, February 7th, and excuse me, sir, the distinguished delegate Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 9 We have found during these consultations that the term that corresponds to Mr. Čolak, saying on behalf of the Club and Mr. Genjac, is speaking on behalf of the Club and most of us as I understand it, on Monday at 11:00. I ask that we make this clear, since you've already opened it as a question of our common decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-0.u213	Okay. So here's the proposal for it to be instead of Tuesday on Monday, continuing this session at 11:00. Should we all plead or accept that as an acclaim? Are we, who's in? Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. We find that the continuation of the first constitutional session will be held at 11:00 Monday. Thank you. Session interrupted at 12:44 p.m.
