ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8090	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. /
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8091	Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of the media. The session also invited representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as the independent body of the BiH police structure whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is unable to participate in the 17th session of the House due to his official trip. Defence Minister Marina Pendeš also sent a notice that due to her official trip she was unable to participate in the 17th session of the House. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda announced that BiH Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury Mirsad Žuga will take part in the session on behalf of this ministry. The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Monika Tomić. According to the service information at this point, 39 MPs are present, which means I'm realizing that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Nikola Lovrinović – Minister of Justice of BiH; Aleksandra Pandurević – Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH; Nikola Špirić – Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH and the Minister of Justice of BiH. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may ask only one parliamentary question, and this time I call on Mr Špirić to define himself on one of these two parliamentary issues. Mirsad Mešić – Minister of Defence of BiH; Salko Sokolović – Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH; Šemsudin Mehmedović – Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH; Saša Magazinović – Minister of Justice of BiH; Damir Arnaut – Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Hazim Rančić – Minister of Security of BiH; Nermina Kapetanović – Minister of Justice of BiH and Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica – Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Just one note that MP Emirć also announced asking questions in oral form, but the issue will only be possible at the next session, as the issue has been delivered past the 24-hour deadline. This notification shall be made in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure, 2 were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Agent Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8092	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Good day to you ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome all present at today's session. So, my question referred to in oral form today is to the Ministry of Justice because it is impossible to refer it to anyone outside the Council of Ministers and that is – will the High Court and Prosecutor's Council also take on the case of prosecution of alleged war crimes against members of the HVO and Dalibor Miloš of Kiseljak, who were cleared of war crimes charges after the County Court in Novi Travnik and the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH determined in public that the County Prosecutor's Office in Travnik had no valid evidence of the actions put on them? In fact, even as far as I'm concerned, there was no need for the defence to amount to anything because there was no evidence, so it's very interesting how the process happened at all. This team, before being appointed to another, was brought in under very strange circumstances, arrests in the early hours of dawn, and for the way things are now, there was no need and therefore certain types of trauma and stress experienced by the families of the same. So I put this in oral form, so please answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8093	Thank you. The Minister of Justice, the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8094	Dear President, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The BiH Justice Ministry is not in charge of answering the question, as it is seen from the formulation of the issue that the same applies to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Appeals on the work of the holder of judicial functions shall be submitted to the VSTV, more specifically to the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor pursuant to Article 54. The VSTV Act. In accordance with Article 56 of the Treaty on the The Law on VSTV, through its disciplinary bodies, exercises its powers in a disciplinary procedure for all prescribed infringements, and imposes disciplinary measures. A disciplinary prosecutor may also initiate proceedings under official duty if he has knowledge and suspicion of a disciplinary offence committed. In particular, any information relating to the possible knowledge of the work of prosecutors from the Prosecutor's Office in Novi Travnik as well as the existence of a disciplinary offence should be requested from the VSTV. The complaint on the work of authorised police officers in the detention process and the lack of freedom of persons shall be submitted to the competent Ministry of the Interior for which information on 3 possible disciplinary proceedings against such police officers should be requested from the competent MUP. The BiH Justice Ministry is not authorized or can comment on judicial decisions, especially those of which the content is learned from public information funds. The courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina are independent and independent in their work and all are obliged to respect the decisions of these courts. The person to whom the prosecutor has done damage during the performance of his duties shall be liable by the County in accordance with Article 27. The law on the district attorney's office of the Central Bosnian County. I also point out that persons who are unfounded for a criminal offence or who have no grounds for being deprived of liberty have the right to rehabilitation, the right to compensation for damages from budgetary means, as well as other rights laid down by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8095	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8096	In short, therefore, I know that the powers of the Ministry of Justice are not, therefore, able to give me a complete answer, but setting up an oral reply simply, according to the Rules of Procedure, is not possible for an institution outside the Council of Ministers. I expect this response in writing and, of course, that then, after that, I will forward it to the VSTV and ask them for an answer, that is to say, use the opportunities that the minister has given me in his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8097	Thank you. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8098	Thank you to the chairman. My question is addressed to the esteemed Minister of Communications and Transport, Mr Matanović, and that reads – Since it is the Agency of your jurisdiction, please give me all the information: about the rental of space for accommodation of the Civil Aviation Directorate in Banja Luka, from which the space was rented, which is the size and at which the monthly price, and if I can get the data in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8099	Minister of Transport and Communications, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8100	I welcome all present ladies and gentlemen. Answering the question of the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević. The BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, BHDCA, signed a contract to rent a business 4 space in Banja Luka with the health institution EUROMEDIC doo Banja Luka. From 2010 to 2011 BHDCA rents a business space of 1,607 m2 at a price of 39,717,40 KM without VAT at monthly level, from 2011 to 2012 BHDCA rents a business space of 1,901 m2 at a price of 57,030 KM without VAT at monthly level, from 2013 to today BHDCA rents a business space of 1,901 m2 at a price of 51,327 KM without VAT at monthly level. According to the systematization of BHDCA's jobs in Banja Luka, 61 jobs are foreseen and the space is the next structure. Office rooms are located from the second floor to the fourth floor. The area of one floor is about 314 m2, i.e. 941 m2 for three floors, which include a cabinet for the Director-General and two cabinets for two deputy director-generals, office rooms for employees, premises... FU station and cashier's office, auditor's office, all wet knots, halls, tea kitchen, stairs, elevator, common room for... printers etc., testing rooms for certification issue... for pilots and flight controllers. The airspace, library, protocol, archive and server hall are located on the 1st floor and partly on the ground floor of a total area of about 620 m2. The ground floor rooms are: entrance hall, 4 conference halls, breakfast room staff with cafeteria and smokers, a storage room for hygienic material and a cleaning unit, boiler room, etc., total area of about 340 m2, parking space of 25 parking spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8101	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8102	Thank you. I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer. Unfortunately, what I heard was confirmed off the record, and I couldn't believe that this Directorate paid as much rent as all other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Banja Luka, 60 marks a month. This is really amazing, and I'm going to tell you, let's say, it's, I'm now as the minister has recalculated, it's 1,000 marks per employee in this institution or 31 marks per square. And I'm going to remind you of the audit report we had here, usually that rent, but when it's 20 marks, it's too high to be 21, 22, so this is where 31 marks are paid. And it's definitely that we need to introduce some order, these situations always happen to us in institutions where we have directors who are civil servants. So we had a similar situation with the deminers. I ask you Ministers let this be an initiative to change the necessary laws to, because it is obvious – some people become estranged centres of power and do not care about or care about savings because he is a life manager. Please start certain legal changes so that we can get people like this to do their job irresponsiblely and sanction them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8103	Thank you. I give my word to MP Nikola Špirić for one question. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, chairman, ministers, guests. I'm, you're right, formulate two questions. It's very difficult to formulate them, one thing is... I expect the addresses to which they are addressed will at least be written, give a written answer, and that's why I've defined myself for my second question in order not to violate the Rules of Procedure. For this second question, I request a reply from the minister of civil affairs, possibly from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So in "The Official Messenger of BiH", 63/15, a decision on the approval of funds from the current budget reserve amounting to 925,000 marks was published. The funds have been allocated mainly to support sports and culture. I would like to point out that the 2015 Budget Law has been approved by the Ministry of Civil Affairs 450,000 marks for the grant of grenades. According to the Budget Law, the Council of Ministers established criteria for the allocation of these funds through five grants, including financing sports events and supporting cultures. The public invitation to grant grenades has been called and as far as I know in the course of the procedure carried out by the commission. So, before the distribution of grenades that were purposely planned from the fields of culture and sports, additional funds were allocated from nearly a million marks. Does this mean that those who are known not to meet the conditions of a public call in advance or for any other reason did not run for projects or did not provide regular documentation for the grant of grants, the Council of Ministers approves the funds without respecting the laws adopted by this Parliament? So, I am referring to the 2015 Budget Law and the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8105	Thank you. The answer, BiH Civil Affairs Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8106	Honored chairman, esteemed members of the College, esteemed MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues. The decision to grant funds from the current reserve of BiH institutions and international commitments to Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 allocated funds to cultural and sports entities totalling 925,000 KM. The opinion in question was given by the Office of Law and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. All cultural and sports entities to whom the decision has allocated funds have great cultural and sports significance for Bosnia and Herzegovina and contribute to its affirmation. The sports subjects that received the funding also deliver significant results to Bosnia and Herzegovina's aphirmist. The best example is the success of a young team of Bosnian and Herzegovina basketball players. The objective of this Decision was to provide assistance in the work and action of the users of the funds addressing emergency intervention requirements to address their burning problems and to address the damages caused by floods on certain facilities. The institutions of culture are in a difficult situation, we have constant demands for support so that they do not come into a situation to close their doors and be questioned by their work. Grant funds for culture are not enough to meet all requirements that arrive at the Ministry of Civil Affairs. 6 The decision on the allocation of funds from the budget of the budget reserve was made in July before the publication of a public call for grants for culture so that it does not appear that the funds allocated to those who are known in advance will not meet the conditions of a public call or for any reason did not run for projects or did not provide an orderly documentation for the grant of grants from grenades. The BiH Council of Ministers fully respects the Law on the BiH budget and the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. The institutions that have received appropriations from the budget reserve cannot recover funds from the grant for the same purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8107	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8108	Well, it's not my aim, of course, of course, of the only thing I want, which would be logical if I got a written answer. So, in order not to open the polemics, I think I'm right that those who are outside, took advantage of that possibility outside the grenade, they're, therefore, finished, and that's supposed to be less funds for those who compete on a grant. But here, we'll see. So, I'd like... to get a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8109	Thank you. I give my word to President Mirsad Mešić, but I note that Defence Minister Marina Pendeš has sent word that he will not attend the House session because of his official trip, and that he will give an answer to the question of MP Mešić at the next session, in accordance with Article 173(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8110	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to ask the defence minister if she was ready and whether she would resign as BiH defence minister for the fact that a lawsuit was confirmed in the BiH Court of Justice for unwitting work, i.e. abuse of office. In fact, Madam Minister has kept the payroll of her party colleague, who I believe doesn't even know where the Ministry is. I'll remind you all here present to say in one Germany, which is who we're looking for and we're trying to be part of the community to which Germany belongs, that's also the Minister of Defence's only cause of suspicion, so I'm only apostropheing because of my suspicion, in the plagiarism of a scientific act, he resigned. This is a question that must be discussed in all political parties, what kind of personnel represent the highest state bodies, and certainly Mr. Prime Minister's Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić and you are obliged to consider who your ministers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8111	Thank you very much. 7 I give the word to Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8112	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question is referred to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, or Minister, Mr Adil Osmanović – When will a Regulation be adopted on imports of medicines that are not registered, or is there any initiative to define the work and operation of international pharmacies that exist in the modern world and work without any problems, because it is the only way to put under control illegal imports of medicines that are not registered? At present, this activity takes place under the Regulation on imports of non-registered medicinal products and the procedure takes about 3 months. And while this lasts, the sale of non-registered drugs takes place on the black market. One brief explanation: We are facing a major problem when it comes to providing patients with medicines that do not have a marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are not registered and which are intended for individual treatment of patients, prescribed by a doctor of medicine or dentist. For now, it is under the Import Regulation for medicinal products that do not have a marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to this Regulation, orders, means that medicines from abroad last for 2 to 3 months, which is unacceptable, and neither patients can wait so long for medication due to the health condition they are in. So far, we have not had a reaction from the Medicines Agency, even though it was a reaction from institutions that traffic this type of medicine.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8113	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8114	And here, I would ask the minister to briefly tell us if they know about this problem and how they're going to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8115	Answer, Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8116	The issue of imports of medicinal products that do not have a marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been regulated by the Law on Medicinal Products, Medical Means "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 58/08, as well as the Regulation on conditions for importing medicinal products that do not have marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 23/11. According to Article 62. The laws on medicines and medical means of BiH include the transport of drugs on a large and small scale. Transport of medicinal products to a small extent is regulated by the regulations of the entity, i.e. the Brcko District of BiH, in accordance with this Act. Entities have adopted their laws on pharmaceutical activity and regulated the work of pharmacies, which is not in the old jurisdiction of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH. According to Article 63. The law on the transport of large medicinal products is the supply, storage, transport and sale of medicinal products, including imports and exports of medicinal products. Traffic on many medicines can only be carried out by legal persons who have obtained a license from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Orders of BiH for 8 drug trafficking. Legal persons carrying out large-scale medicinal products should only sell medicinal products to legal and physical persons authorised for the marketing of medicinal products on a large or small scale. As mentioned above, pharmacies are not concerned with the traffic of medicinal products on a large scale. Legal persons carrying out the traffic of medicinal products on a large scale, including imports of medicinal products in addition to the conditions laid down in Article 64. The laws must also meet the additional conditions laid down in Article 65 of the Law. In Article 66. The law requires imports of medicinal products into Bosnia and Herzegovina that do not have marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or are not registered with the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. The Regulation on conditions for imports of medicinal products which do not have a marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Articles 2, 3 and 5 has laid down the conditions for imports, the conditions for approval of imports, and the required documentation for the submission of the applications for imports of those medicinal products. In Article 6 of that Regulation, it is prescribed that the competent entity health ministries and the Department of State of Brcko District of BiH authorise the import of medicinal products which do not have marketing authorisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 7 working days of the date of submission of the complete application and in accordance with Article 66(3). The drug laws and medical means. The Federal Ministry of Health has adopted a Regulation on clearer conditions regarding space, equipment and staff, criteria for the establishment and pursuit of medical activities in all organisational forms, as well as the manner and procedure of their verification. In accordance with Article 39(a) of that Regulation, the International Pharmacy carries out the procurement of medicinal products from the intra-control sector for the purposes of a particular patient who is currently not available on the market of the Federation of BiH, with the presentation of the prescription of the doctor of medicine or dentistry as well as medical documentation, and in accordance with the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices "The Official Messenger of BiH, No 58/08, I adopt regulations on the basis of this Act and the Law on the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The activities are under way on the amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under which, in addition to others, the issue will be considered and with a view to improving the protection of the health of the population and the adaptation of that Act to the changed market conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8117	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8118	Here's my thanks to the minister. Here, obviously we have a problem, so time, time factor, is whether, waits up to two, three months, we have customers order and go abroad, etc., so we have one problem. I understood through the information given by the minister that this issue would be resolved. I'd just like to ask that, uh, Mr. Secretary's reply be given in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8119	Thank you. I give my word to counsel Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8120	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I have one question for the Honorable Minister of Transport and Communications. Taking into account the announced projects presented at the Vienna Conference, I am interested – Why did Bosnia and Herzegovina run only two projects in the transport infrastructure area? Is it possible that this country has such infrastructure that we have only run for these two projects, although, in my opinion, five announced projects were few? In this sense, I wonder how many total laws have also been proposed in the area of transport infrastructure by the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH from 2010 to today? How many permanent civil servants have the Transport Infrastructure, Preparation and Implementation Sector of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport Projects, and how many of these sectors have prepared laws and sublegal acts, i.e. how much has the Transport Infrastructure Sector received, processed, and how many civil servants individually processed the cases from 2010 to today? I am particularly interested, taking into account the name of the Transport Infrastructure Sector, the preparation and implementation of the projects, because it is called, how many projects in the transport infrastructure area have prepared and implemented those sectors on their own, and I am thinking of projects prepared and implemented on my own, exclusively by state officials, sub-sectors, without third-party engagements, or by various consultants, since I have information that projects are being prepared through the engagement of external consultants, of course at high prices, which will certainly be the subject of one of the following parliamentary issues? And of course is it accurate that the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport intends to pay a million euros to consultants for the development of the Transport Strategy, since regional infrastructure projects are part of a comprehensive network related to, narrowly for the countries of the environment? I'm also interested in the official conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8121	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8122	and the composition of the delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, as well as the delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia at meetings held in July this year, which we could find out, unfortunately, only from the media?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8123	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Connection and Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8124	The answer is in preparation and will be delivered to the esteemed representative Mehmedović in writing, as requested, no later than the next session of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8125	Thank you. Does he have a comment? There isn't, is there? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8126	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8127	He stays with it. Okay. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8128	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, your deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs and all others present. My question is for the minister of justice, and it concerns the recently signed Protocol on the reform of the BiH judiciary. First of all, give us the paper to see, and then a few questions – What is the benefit of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so what is the content, which may be consequences under the legal system, is the agreement between the HDZ and SNSD, whether the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska is behind the Protocol or did you sign it on your own? What do you think of the BiH Court's reaction to this, this Protocol? And don't you think that such important things should be previously informed of Parliament, government, public, both professional and public in the broadest sense of the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8129	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8130	Thank you. Modern heritage societies have long tradition of dividing the authorities into parliamentary, executive and judicial. So given our commitment to be part of this system of democratic values, we allow everyone to work in the domain of constitutional and legal powers. Therefore, judicial reform should and must deal with the executive power presented to the resolution ministers, and the final decision will be made by Parliament, as already calls for parliamentary democracy. No one has any exclusive right to the judicial reform process, but it is our duty and our duty to all move within the powers conferred upon us. Politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot ask for the reform to move along the path they have chosen. All must have the right to propose a way of reforming the judiciary which, in their opinion, is adequate. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country made up of constituent nations and members of others. Everyone must have the right to state their views and arguments, and the others must be obliged to listen to them. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot move forward on the path to Euro-Atlantic integration if we are to force only our proposals and reject the opinion of others at the very beginning and priors as wrong and unacceptable. The only thing I can conclude from all this noise is that the Protocol has not been read or that the reform is not supported. The protocol is not a legally binding act but an expression of willingness to co-operate, which was commended and recognised by EU Commissioner for Regional Policy and Enlargement Policy Johanes Han. Politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as EU representatives, are of common interest to ensure an independent, impartial and professional judiciary, but it is evident that we all have a different vision of how to ensure this. I mentioned earlier that all interested people would be able to make their contribution. So if we get more citizens involved in the regulation process why is there a problem if we have given one entity of this country the opportunity to present its proposal to experts? There is nothing controversial in the Reform Protocol, at least for those who truly want 11 to see judicial reform happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is only a mere expression of will to move towards reforms and to discuss the upcoming TAIEX seminar in addition to the BiH Justice Ministry's proposal of October 2013 and the Republika Srpska government's proposal. I've already spoken to the Director for the Western Balkans...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8131	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8132	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8133	Does the representative have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8134	No matter how much I don't have a chairman, save the minister. The lecture on modern societies and the claim that only you as a minister should deal with this is something your predecessor, Minister Čolak, would never say. I don't even know how besides people with great legal and political experience from your party, such as previous Minister Čolak, such as Chairman Krišto, you become minister of justice, but it's not something I need to... _________(?) Saša [[no microphone turned on]] The code hasn't been passed yet. You didn't answer any of my questions, not one of my questions. What we know about this whole process from the media, we know from political parties' reactions. Here, we know, let's say, that the political party from which the Council of Ministers Chairman and Prime Minister of the Federation are coming does not stand behind this Protocol, which you have signed, although many consider their opposition to be a public show, in view of the strong discounts of the HDZ lately, but they will have the opportunity to prove it by starting, among other things, and replacing the BiH Minister of Justice. It's a non-transparent and out of the public-hidden project.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8136	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8137	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8138	One minute to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8139	Here, I'll finish up and just say that nontransparentity and public hiding, the story of key reforms must stop. And in that sense, I call on this Parliament and the public to stand up to it. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8140	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8141	I thank the chairman. I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, remain on one question and stick to time. Question of the Council of Ministers Chairman – Which is why the 2015-2018 Reform Agenda for Bosnia and Herzegovina is taking place. year, a document officially delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives, on three occasions mentioning the Hercegbossan Canton? And given that the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court ruled that this name is contrary to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, as well as that the relevant institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of BiH, and the international community are regularly titled in their official documents as Canton 10, including in situations where other cantons in the same documents address their full constitutional names, e.g. The Sarajevo Canton, the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton, etc., always says Canton 10, and the Council of Ministers has now officially delivered to this Parliament an official document in which, on three occasions, the Reform Agenda, mentions the Hercegbosan Canton, which is completely contrary to the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court's ruling in Case U 11/97.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8142	Thank you. Please, the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8143	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, respected guests, the media, I welcome you all together. I would like to thank the honourable representative of Arnaut for asking the question. I must say, it's a matter of precise observation and a very useful suggestion. The cause is the fact that practically all the time in the document of the Reform Agenda, the Canton issue is treated with the name cantons without listing, in order to, of course, immediately prior to adoption we decided to still list all cantons and in this sense, there was likely such an oversight. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, it is about the correction that we will fix in our documents and if it is necessary to renew the sending of such a document again to the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8144	Thank you, President. Does the representative have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8145	Of course. Thank you, Madam Chairman. This, I find it simply unacceptable for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his entire Council of Ministers, which numbers 10 ministers and 10 deputies, i.e. you, 9 ministers and 10 deputies, to make such a mistake, such an oversight on three occasions, which really shows me that when 13 of these things, when you do not know what cantons are called to you in the country, so you sign it, then pass it on to Parliament officially with the act. You don't know what your cantons are called in the state, how you're going to implement anything from that reform agenda. In last session of Parliament, I pointed out serious errors in translation from English to languages that are official in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian, some things were literally translated. So I'm convinced the Council of Ministers can't implement it, and this is evidence of another, they don't know what their cantons are called, and I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8146	Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8147	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, media representatives. My question was addressed to the Minister of Security – which institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not have adopted integrity plans and which they were obliged to do in accordance with Article 24. The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption? Nime, all institutions under that law were obliged to deliver to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against integrity plans. The law was adopted in 2009 and published, of course, today in 2015, and last session of the House of Representatives, we discussed the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for 2014. The above-mentioned report shows that some of the institutions in the new Bosnia and Herzegovina still do not have their plans to fight corruption, which are an integral part of the plans for the integrity of these institutions. Would you like to list the institutions that are obstructing the application and implementation of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8148	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8149	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Security's response would be next. In line with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act against Corruption, issue 103/09, and the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2014–2019. The Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Coordination of Anti-Corruption is responsible for the construction, coordination and monitoring and implementation of integrity plans in institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for the regulation of a single methodology and guidelines for the development of integrity plans and the provision of assistance to all public institutions in their realisation. So, the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Agency is a competent institution. If I use just maybe a minute to say this, we at the Ministry of Security have adopted a Regulation on the internal reporting of corruption and the protection of persons who report... corruption, the form of a declaration of knowledge of the rights and obligations of the Internal Affairs Regulation(s). reporting corruption and protecting people who report corruption, 14 establishing open communication channels for reporting corruption and other irregularities, in particular e-mails, faxes, appointed reception, record and handling of corruption reports and other irregularities in the BiH Ministry of Security and that we organised a series of meetings, seminars and... conferences related to the development of integrity plans and the fight against corruption. Here, I would take this opportunity, if you would allow, or that we should forward this letter to the Corruption Prevention Agency, or your question, to supplement your answer in this sense, or that if you would like to ask additionally in the sense that you are asking the Anti-Corruption Agency to supplement your answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8150	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8151	Thank you very much. I know the jurisdiction and the Agency, and I spoke about it last time we discussed this report. And in my debate, I asked for that information, unfortunately from the director, who went out after the debate of our MPs, I didn't hear that data. The Explicate Report states that all institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, do not have their own plans and whose component and integrity plan is, and I am very familiar that it is, that it contains six points there as binding for every institution that is obliged to do so. Since, therefore, there in the report even says that the Council of Ministers wrote a letter, some application to the institutions and begged them to apply this Law and to cooperate with the Agency, I ask the Minister and Council of Ministers to, in cooperation with the Agency, provide me in writing a list of institutions that will not implement this Law in a way that they obstruct it because they did not do these plans and... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8152	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8153	Good afternoon. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice – When will the BiH Ministry of Justice refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH which will establish sanctions for cyber crime, i.e. child pornography? It's about my four-year-old initiative when I was a delegate in the House of Peoples. I want to say that, according to the Ministry of Security, there was a trend in the rise of cyber crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Speaking of acts classified as cybercrime, I am particularly concerned about the growth and distribution of child pornography in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the counterfeiting of credit and other non-cash payment cards, unauthorized access... to the system of electronic data processing and the obstruction of the work of the system and the network of electronic data processing. It is not right that entity and Brcko district legislation is regulated, the issue is regulated, and at the 15th level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not regulated. The penalties prescribed for those offences are fines and prison sentences depending on the type and form of criminal offences. The most frightening work is the exploitation of children and minors for pornography, so I appreciate the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina calls children persons up to 14 years of age, and in Croatia children are persons up to 18 years of age, leaving the possibility of a wider diapazone and great opportunities for better fight against cyber crime and child pornography. Bosnia and Herzegovina has signed the European Convention on Computer Crime. I appreciate the efforts of subjective cybercrime investigators, who really do their job well, but I don't think the level of punishment is satisfactory if, say, the person who found a million and a half videos of children who are minors, the height of the prison sentence of 4.5 years is not enough. I just want to say that economic espionage and unauthorized incursion into systems, protected systems and bank card theft cost globally $445 billion each year. I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina should do important things in this field, and certainly also make sure that every page of the News Portal finds a member of the Criminal Law on the ban on causing national, racial and religious hatred, given that on our portals it is often possible to see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8154	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8155	On 09.02.2005, as you said, Bosnia and Herzegovina signed the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and ratified it in 2006, thus fulfilling one of the obligations to ratify the Council of Europe conventions in the area of criminal law. Criminal acts against the electronic data processing system represent newspapers in our criminal law, since our criminal law was introduced only in 2003 or later through amendments and additions to criminal laws. When we talk about cybercrime, it is about criminal acts that are commonly called computer crime, since some of them are directed against computer data, programs, systems or communications, and others include computer data, programs, systems or communications, and manipulation of their means, i.e. the way they are done. The basis for the incrimination contained in these criminal acts is the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime. This Convention was agreed by the Member States when it comes to measures to be taken at national level, which relate to material and criminal law, to the taking of legislative and other necessary measures to introduce them into their national law four groups of criminal offences. The first group shall constitute criminal offences against confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer data and systems, i.e. unauthorised access, unauthorised interception, data interference, system interference and use of devices. Another group is committing crimes related to computers, counterfeiting that are related to computers and computer fraud. Third group, crimes against content, i.e. crimes related to child pornography. And the fourth group, crimes related to copyright violations and similar rights. The fine legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of criminal legal provisions contained in the BiH Penal Code and in the criminal laws of entities and Brcko District. So when 16 we talk about a third group of crimes, so on. Crimes related to child pornography, the Convention in Article 9 contains a specific provision that criminalises child pornography when used through a computer system. The basic form of protection against cyber crime as organised criminal activities is contained under criminal laws applicable in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Crimes directly related to child pornography are governed by entity law. Most of the methods of committing child pornography are covered by the criminal laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and under criminal law are considered the Criminal Law of BiH, the criminal laws of entities and the Criminal Law of the Brcko District by making additional efforts to harmonise standards in entity laws in order to fully integrate the provisions of the Convention, as well as the Faculty Protocol with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8156	Thank you, Minister. She's a commentary. Does she have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8157	Thank you. You told me everything I know, and apparently the same source of data was, because I taxed things before your answer compared them exactly as you compared them. I know about the initiative, and I know about the decisions of the Council of Europe because I am a member, because in the last term I was a member of the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Rights of the Child and I know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, children's rights are severely violated, including in the area, so, cyber crime and child pornography. And if I say that only in two cases in the RS and Sarajevo, two people have found several million children's videos, unprotected children who are subject to abuse of criminal punishment, so a 4.5-year sentence is not enough and is not enough to warn all paedophiles and all those who are potentially dangerous to the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I expect that they will finally and harmonize and comply with the entity laws of each other, even if I welcome what is done at entity levels, especially in the Federal Police Department and the RS MUP,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8158	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8159	but I appreciate that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina must install in its Criminal Law an absolute crime precisely prescribed for each of these items that we have just talked about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8160	Thank you. I give my word to my representative, Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8161	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. 17 My question has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and concerns the delivery of information to the Institute for Missing BiH. I ask that the information contains an answer to who are members of the College of Directors, and since in the technical mandate of 2010, 2012, since a member of the Serb people was appointed a little later, why is no competition for the selection of the new College of Directors to this day? Also, who are members of the Management and Supervisory Board, and since they are also in the technical mandate, why is there no competition for the selection of new members/members of the Management and Supervisory Board? Is there a conflict of interest in function behaviour in the management structures of any College of Directors, Management and Supervisory Committee of the Institute of Missing Persons? Are the decisions made by the Management Board of the Institute of Missing Justice since there are no members of the Bosniak people for a long period of time? Since I have sufficient information, I would like to ask that this information contains specifically why the competition process has not been implemented to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8162	Thank you. The Council of Ministers shall be chaired by a reply. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8164	Thank you. Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, guests and the media, allow me to welcome you to this first address. Since the Institute of Missing Persons is at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I simply have to say that you will get an answer to all the questions, because I literally don't know by name, but it's a political issue that will end very quickly and make a decision to call a secure competition and for bodies such as the Management Board and a political decision that will define that the Missing Persons Institute will function in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8165	I thank the Deputy Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8166	I'm not happy with the answer, and I'd certainly like to get it in writing mostly why it's a political issue, I don't understand, it's about the victims of the past war, but also the victims who stayed behind and in search of their missing victims of this system, so I can't accept that it's a political issue. The second thing, my question is primarily why no competition has been called today and of course it should and will be called, because it is something that follows legally. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8167	Thank you. Now respected MPs and MPs, distinguished guests are moving on to the establishment of the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 4. A request by MP Nikola Lovrinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-15, of 07/09/2015. Point 17. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation in the parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, issue: 01-34-1-1190/15, of 14.09.2015. I point 18. Proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and on the study of mother tongues throughout BiH", issue: 01-50-1191/15, since 15/09/2015. In addition to the report referred to in point 11., Paln was added to the work of the Independent Committee for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-818-15, of 17.06.2015. Point 8. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-12/15, of 06/08/2015, was supplemented by the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights which is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8168	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives be added to today's 17th session of the House of Representatives' House of Representatives' agenda – the resignation of SDPBiH MP Denis Bećirović as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH because of the discriminatory policy of denial of Bosnian language in the territory of the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity RS. I find it pointless to be a member of the Commission for Human Rights and that in the state we have a situation for millions of people who speak Bosnian even to call their language what they called it centuries before. For this reason, I would like to remind myself that such a situation is certainly both anti-Daytonal and anti-constitutional and non-democratic and that such a policy is unsustainable. This is unsustainable and against the Constitution of BiH, as it is clearly stated in Article 2. – that languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina are fully equal, both Bosnian and Serbian and Croatian. This is also established by the European Convention on Human Rights, and it should be applied directly to the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. In essence, we have a situation, unfortunately, that the representatives of the international community also remain silent over one such act and one such policy, and that 19 of them contribute to creating such an atmosphere that it seems to me in this country that we should be happy that they will talk on the subject. As a result, I am resigning whether or not this has entered the agenda today, so I am resigning as a member of the Human Rights Commission. I suggest you pick a new member of the Commission today. And certainly we can also tell those who deny the Bosnian language that it will never be the subject of any negotiations, that is the historical language, the right of all people who speak that language and write it in that language to title it and I do not see that anyone in this desire would remember that it denies any people that he speaks with his own language and nominates it as he wishes. In the shortest time, such a policy is driving us both from any kind of European integration and any progress. It's the political bottom.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8169	Thank you, counsel. I ask him to send us his proposal in writing, so that we can make a statement afterwards. Representative Nikola Špirić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8170	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here's a little commentary, for an irrevocable resignation. There's nothing to argue about, so the man resigned uninvited, what are we supposed to discuss today? So, if it's an irrevocable resignation, it is, thus delivering the request and ending the story. I wanted to talk about the agenda. Also, you know that on several occasions, I have proposed to the Rules of Procedure the agenda point – the Action Plan of the Council of Ministers, apropo, under the quotes of the European Agenda, that a repeat vote is three times, that this point would not be... here and that we could discuss. To this day, we have not received the Council of Ministers' Action Plan and we hear in public that Bosnia and Herzegovina... has fulfilled over 50% of its obligations under the Action Plan. So, so much for that action plan. And today I am also using the opportunity to say that it would be good, given that this month, this is the only session of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is a sign that we are spinning in circles, and today if you look at the structure of the agenda you have more initiative to amend the laws of the MPs of this House than you have from the Council of Ministers. And I propose that we also include the first item of the agenda – the Council of Ministers' Action Plan for the global refugee crisis, the humanitarian security response. Since I hear that plan is made up, it would be good if we took a break to get it. If not, let the Council of Ministers say how long it takes him, two, three, five days, so we can continue to discuss something that causes global earthquakes in much stronger countries than Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, to prepare a strategic response to the potential, therefore, that will leave a mark in much stronger countries and economies, EU member states, rather than Western Balkan countries, and Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular. So I think it would be useful for this country, because I hear that the plan is made up, that it exists. And I think it would be good for us in Parliament to talk about it, to act promptly, to have an answer to any challenges. I'm afraid a more powerful wave can cause a lot of problems inside this country for this country. So I'd like to at least get some action plan regarding, therefore, this country and our response to those challenges. Here, that's my request, to be the point of the agenda, to take a break after that, to get the Action Plan. This could be the fate of the point as the action plan of the apropo European agenda. But it gives us a chance to spin around without... one key challenge for this country. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8171	Thank you, counsel. Replica, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8172	..some clarification, Madam Chairman. I've given a similar initiative. Do we today have a agenda point concerning the readiness of BiH institutions when it comes to this refugee crisis, or should we prepare it for the next session, because in this sense we would have all the material? So I want to join this and see just the capacities we're willing to do. So, there is an initiative that, if we have a willingness, we do so today, if not, then to accept my initiative to prepare all the information for the next session of Parliament and to have a special agenda on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8173	Thank you. Debate, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8174	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. College members, distinguished colleagues. I just want to comment on the request to put on the agenda of the point proposed by the distinguished colleague Bećirović. In fact, it has been common so far, and I don't see why we should change practice, to get here along with the resignation and the suggestion of who will be in the commission instead of Mr Bećirović. There is no reason to debate this, so that we can decide whether or not to adopt an irrevocable resignation, and after that, to put on the agenda again the point of selecting a new member of the Commission. So, I suggest that today we are not having a debate about the irrevocable resignation, but that the College, in the usual way, observes, or gets that resignation and proposes a new candidate from, whether from the order of the SDP or someone else, of course, that's the thing of the College, and then put it on the agenda and we end it, as we are doing today, here with the proposal of the DF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8175	Thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8176	It's a replica to Mr. Špirić. So, I'm uneasyly surprised by the way he reacted about this proposal. The point, Mr Špirić, is not to resign, nor to be or not to be a member of the Human Rights Commission, the point is to talk about apartheid in this country where we live. As far as I'm concerned, I've always respected and respected all the peoples, all the citizens and all the languages in this country, and the Bosnian language and the Serbian and Croatian languages. Here, I publicly ask you, Mr Špirić, is there any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina where someone denies Serbian? And I publicly tell you, if there is one in Bosnia and Herzegovina, such a situation, that I am ready together with 21 of you and with all other people to fight to possibly correct such an injustice. But also from you, Mr. Špirić, I expect you to understand that I and millions of people speak Bosnian language and that no one has the right to deny it. The point is that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8177	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Špirić, or reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8178	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I didn't think there'd be any need. It is true that the cameras are here today, and led by the constant demands of Mr Bećirović, I think this Parliament is dealing with politics and unserious politics. There are institutions that need to deal with serious challenges, somewhere on the entity level, somewhere on the state level. Things need to, there are no revolutionary solutions, so they need to evolve. I don't mind that, but I'm against the fact that someone with an irrevocable resignation is politically approaching the challenge I'm talking about. It's just my attitude, and the fact that Denis is disappointed, you're young, you'll be fascinated and disappointed by phenomena inside a country where you're also as politically acting as I am. If it had been... luck for your willingness to talk, then we would have had at least a dozen conversations as colleagues, parliamentarians about the challenge you're talking about, and today you wouldn't be offering an irrevocable resignation, as if it would turn someone on because you're not in the Commission. And like all human rights will be compromised if there is no Nikola Špirić in any commission. Let's talk seriously. It is a much more serious problem than Denis Bećirović's resignation. And in order to solve serious problems, there must be day-to-day communication. How many times have Denise asked your fellow parliamentarians to discuss the challenge without leaving you in the first place and distracting the public? So, I think burning problems are solved in a completely different way. No Niko denies that there are problems in either entity and dissatisfaction. But it won't get rid of the way you're prone. So changing the political method may lead to a solution. The way your resolutions, the manifestations, the politics most often, actually hurts those people you're fighting for. It's doing them more harm than good. So if you had ten failed attempts at talking, here I am, who you're offering your resignation to, and to say, here's no understanding, so let's just say it's okay. I don't think the method you're dealing with the problem is good, and I'm thinking unrelenting resignation doesn't require any discussion at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8179	Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8180	Well, please, I've got the material now and it's written here – reviewing resignations. So, is it resignation or not resignation? If it's an irrevocable resignation, what we have to consider is an irrevocable resignation. So it's an irrevocable resignation and we can choose another member of the Commission or not to choose, of course, on a proposal from the College, but we can't discuss irrevocable resignations. How we're going to consider an irrevocable resignation. And, of course, it's clear to us, Mr. Bećirović, that it's not the purpose here to consider resignation, but to consider something else. And you would now probably, by that principle, 22 all those who are not to be placed on the agenda here would be declared against the language spoken by the Bosniak people. That would be the same principle now, following this analogy, which, of course, is absolutely not true, and I refuse it at the beginning of such insinuation. So no one here argues to any people to call their language whatever he wants. I don't think it's questionable for anyone, not in this House, but in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8181	Thank you. Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8182	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. If we were to come into a position to accept an initiative like this, I think there is only one thing that will follow, because each of us has some reason why, because of its political dissatisfaction and individual proposals, the initiative would ask to come out of individual working bodies, and work in working bodies is mandatory. In particular, it seems to me that the proposal coming from Mr Bećirović is not correct, because there have been many unconstitutional proposals of law, initiative and what not so far and we have often been in a position to think about whether this is the way we should work, would it not be convenient for us to get out of the working bodies, so let Denis Bećirović and him think alike. Therefore, it is not a way out of the Commission. Working in Parliament's working bodies is mandatory. It is not the biggest event of a plenary session, especially a plenary session that is broadcast on television. Work in the working bodies is about the engagement of MPs and their struggle to represent their views and to make these views current. So what we're proposing, I'm saying if we come to adopt that, we're going to open a flood, because we're going to find a whole... everyone's going to find some reason to get out of the working bodies. Then who's gonna do it, these jobs?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8183	Thank you. Debate, representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8184	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, we, if I recall, have adopted a European agenda here in this House, with a promise from the Council of Ministers that we will be given the Action Plan, thus removing certain concerns that exist in this agenda. Since we haven't got that action plan by now, here I'd like to have someone answer from the Council of Ministers if we're going to get it at all. If we do not, we will prepare a agenda item for the next session – Ministers' Action Plan for the Implementation of the Agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8185	Thank you. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8186	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Respected by the Council of Ministers, now you can't list there are many of you today, which is for every praise, except that there are no women now, Semihe is gone, only male. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović took this part of my discussion. We're on the same subject, Šemso, and I'll just add one sentence. We here are obliged to fully, in each of his dots and to dots, in every letter, every word, every style, every sentence, respect what we call the Constitution of BiH. If we who are in charge of this, and we are actually guardians of the Constitution of BiH, this way we discuss and deny what Mr. Denis Bećirović said, or say that it is a commitment, the obligation is the Constitution, everything else is something that is a category that is below, and it does not have to and can. Therefore, it is his right to endure and his right to place this in the agenda, because here I have made it printed out to all of us in this hall, the first page of Bosnian-language grammar, which was printed in Banja Luka and printed by the First Serbian Press, and is kept in the University Library in Zagreb. Here, I gave it to print, to get all the MPs, so they wouldn't discuss it anymore, because it was still printed in Banja Luka, in the First Serbian Press in 1800 and some writing Bosnian grammar. I support you not to discuss what Denis gave, but to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8187	Thank you. Replica, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8188	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The replica about what Mr. Mehmedović said. It seems to me that since July, we have been asking the Council of Ministers to deliver the Action Plan, and here we seem to have received a response today that only now will they begin to correct the mistakes in this agenda, so I have a feeling that we will wait for the Action Plan itself. Well, I guess we'll get bug fixes first, then maybe sometime by the end of the year and this action plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8189	Thank you. Replica, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8190	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I welcome all present today. I just wanted to say that perhaps in an unconscious way, or an unusual way fellow Denis Bećirović actually wanted to delegate a very important issue, it refers naturally to the Bosnian language and everything that is happening. Perhaps it would be better if he suggested a point directly, without mentioning the resignations. And I don't know if I'm ready to back my resignation, but I need to work there. What the distinguished representative Majkić said was our right and obligation to participate in the work of the working bodies. I think we should certainly put a point like this on the agenda, with this perhaps excluding 24 motions for an irrevocable resignation. So I certainly suggest, if it's possible today, to include the point, that we're not talking about reasons now. If it fits, we have something to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8191	Thank you. Debate, Sadik Ahmetović, representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8192	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, the chairman. I just want to say a few words about what Mr Bećirović was talking about. The fact is that it's one of the really burning problems, but I also think that we need to and we need to solve cold heads, because it's about breaking policy over those who don't deserve it at all, and these are children who need to go to school. Therefore, I have proposed that today, at this session, we conclude on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, with an emphasis on studying the national group of subjects and mother tongues throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we have complete information and that in such a way in this House, which represents all citizens of this country, we are talking about problems in each part of it and with any problem that any child encounters throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I wouldn't want to make the problems kids have today political, just political representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8193	Thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more logs to discuss the agenda, I don't see any more on the list of replicas. So, after all, we have, in a way, the orderly debate on the draft agenda, we have a proposal for – Considering the resignation of SDP MP Denis Bećirović, as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because of the discriminatory policy of denying Bosnian language in the territory of the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity Republika Srpska. And from the debates, meaning MPs, in some way and replicas, and here the position of our College, above all we do not have a resignation, means, as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The resignation is a personal act, it is not an act of the Parliamentary Assembly, and we will not declare this. When we are resigned, and she is accepted, this House will put on the agenda a proposal to amend the decisions to appoint members of the Committee, between this and someone else, so we have this attitude on this point in terms of the College. As for the point of MP Nikola Špirić – The Action Plan of the Council of Ministers of BiH in response to the global refugee crisis, humanitarian and security response, it is a suggestion that this is in some way the first item of the agenda, and I would like to remind myself that other respected MPs, in some ways, commented, have complemented this point. Here, our kind of proposal here in the College is that, here's a proposal for our decision to leave this issue for the session, when we get information from the Council of Ministers and to consider it at the next session of Parliament, the Parliamentary House of BiH. If you accept, if 25 can't be us if you insist on voting, but I think this is one important question, which we all agree on, and complexly, that it should be on the agenda of the House of Representatives, but that it should be prepared first.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8194	... I don't think time is our ally. That's why I'm asking you to, I insist on voting. I wanted to comment earlier, you said agree with the position of the College. So let Parliament declare my agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8195	Thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8196	Business, so, intervention. If that's how you unanimously interpreted the Rules of Procedure, here's what I'm saying, I'm not gonna be a problem for you either. We will respect the form, in the course of the day you will also receive my written resignation as a member of the Human Rights Commission, for the reasons I have stated. And this is what we've heard, and this is from fellow Ahmetović, as far as I see my colleague Ahmetović should be negotiating on the Bosnian language, is it not? Such a policy, even indirectly if someone concludes, is disastrous. There are no negotiations on Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8197	Here, the position of the College is also on this second item of the agenda to ask the Council of Ministers for information and not to declare ourselves on this item of the agenda, so that it may be prepared, and then be held at the session. No more debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8198	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8199	I note once again that we have really considered the important question and that it should be found at the session, but that we need material. I don't think the point's just been put in shape and we're going to make a statement about it, so today, I don't know, some people are making a commitment not to accept it today. I think it is more normal to leave this point for the next session, to ask the Council of Ministers' position and, of course, according to the proposal, in a way of priority, or first point, as the Rules of Procedure so require. Do you accept?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8200	So please, as with the Action Plan, it was adopted, so it was voted three times. Parliament can mostly make any decision it wants. So it's been adopted, so three times the vote has been re-voted, so far there's no action plan. If you, too... I appreciate the Council of Ministers, this is not mine... according to the Council of Ministers, but a great challenge. So it's much better, 26 to the Council of Ministers if it doesn't work for two days, to take a break. Well, these are all your other initiatives to amend the law. Why do we pretend that Parliament is making some strategic decisions and doing what we are strategically delaying. So, I said, first item of the agenda -- pause, let the Council of Ministers say I need two days, a day, I can take the afternoon, continue the session and discuss the serious challenge. And by the next session that's going to be October 7th, the question is, are we going to discuss this this this way, people? So time is not an ally. And I ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected, that we be heard. Whatever Parliament's decision is, I'll respect it, I don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8201	Okay. Replica Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8202	...time is not an ally I agree, we just need to do something about this and get something out. So, I repeat, we have an initiative, now you have it in front of you again, in which it is pointed out precisely. To have a debate today, which will cause something concrete, in fact as a state, to show this willingness and seriousness to deal with these issues, we need to have one broader information that implies information about institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina but also at lower, entity, cantonal, local, what is it that they can now have, which would be the bearers of these activities in the next period, how much could refugees receive, what would be financial resources? I think we can have all of this until the next session, such a quality of one material and, accordingly, have it as the first item of the agenda at the next session of Parliament. To accept the initiative I have given you, and it is, in some ways, what it is, approaching the attitudes of both mine and Nikolina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8203	Here, at this point, we have a report from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8204	Thank you. I would like to say that the Council of Ministers agrees with the College's proposal and agrees with the initiative submitted by the distinguished representative Senad Šepić. Of course, our information on the measures and activities defined in the Operational Plan for Institutions will be related, of course, only to the competences that Bosnia and Herzegovina and institutions have in this area at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll deliver it, and of course it should be the first point of your next session. And as for the Action Plan and the Reform Agenda, I ask you not to use these permanent usual flossules. We have received a deadline within which the Council of Ministers should deliver the Action Plan. It's 30 days since last session and we'll do it, of course within the scheduled time limit.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8205	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Replica, Sadik Ahmetović. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8206	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8207	Please don't, we're like this without a word, you didn't sign up and the replicas were spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8208	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8209	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8210	He's had five replicas so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8211	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8212	You had two MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8213	So I'm trying to help, maybe it's not...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8214	Well, we tried to help, too, but here, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8215	So, I insist you make a statement about my proposal, whatever it is... it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8216	We'll get to the bottom of your proposal. We'll get to the bottom of this. Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8217	I'm sorry to have to replicate my colleague Denis Bećirović to claim that perhaps I should negotiate on the Bosnian language. I did not suggest that I be on TV or on all the portals and newspapers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I suggested because I know what the problem is and the good part of the parents of those children I know personally. If I had done so in these last ten or fifteen years and resigned today would have been very different in the area where the Bošnjak live. So I urge you not to resign, to stay in the Commission and to work for the good of all the people in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8218	Thank you. Debate, Hazim Rančić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8219	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Regarding the initiative on refugee problems and possible spillovers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the challenges of all the species that could expect us to do so, here I will try what I am afraid of today, to remind us, and in the spirit of perhaps the legal one, the first one in time to strengthen right, and we have it all and in the record, in the last session, so I asked the question – Is there a danger of spilling the refugee crisis from neighbouring countries into Bosnia and Herzegovina? Do the competent institutions take appropriate preventive measures in the event of a flood of the refugee crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are we human and technical and in every other respect ready to respond to the challenge? If this happens, are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ready to help refugees, as others have helped refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, by preventing all possible unwanted consequences that could come with a huge inflow of refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In fact, we are witnessing these days in neighbouring countries, it is not good for these refugees, not these women, not those children, and, of course, those countries are facing problems. And not only our two countries in the neighborhood, this problem is much more pronounced, so I'm interested – are we ready for any problems? Of course, I agree with my colleagues that this is a very important issue, but also to discuss it, it requires written material, specifically that we should have from the Council of Ministers. They promised to deliver it, I hope, and I insisted on a written answer. Well, as soon as we get that, let's discuss it and make it a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8220	Thank you very much. Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8221	I would like to say to my esteemed colleague Ahmetović that he was not the subject nor what I suggested at the beginning of the session, nor what the debate was. We have one problem, a serious problem, and I believe we both agree on that. As far as these other things are concerned, I'm sorry he got involved in this way at all. Comrade Ahmetović, you still need to know that you are part of the party that is part of the parliamentary majority, part of the party that has the most MPs here, member of the College, chairman of the Council of Ministers, member of the BiH presidency. Don't hold the opposition party, in this case to the SDP, lessons to what and how. All that you're proposing to solve is I invite you and I'll support you to take care of it. And this point that you've suggested I have no intention of denying it, I'm going to take part in the debate today, but I doubt that's how you're going to solve this problem. So there's no need for us to enter this kind of polemic. And as far as my resignation is concerned, she's certainly unrequited for resignation, because I have no intention of falsifying human rights, when human rights clearly don't exist for millions of people in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8222	Thank you. At this point, replica Asim Sarajlić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8223	Just for a moment, Madam Chairman. I didn't mean to pick up, but here's the head of the SDA Club. I have to take this. So, colleagues to Denis Bećirović – and while you were chairman of this House and when we asked for your shift and when you started these initiatives, which Mr Špirić was talking about, you had our support. So, but what is evident is what counterpart Ahmetović found out, so here's who's looking at the cell phone or the computer, they'll already see that the portals have announced that Denis is resigning, you don't know what. So, we've already been serious about this at the club, we've supported your strong initiatives, and we've decided not to do it anymore, because it's not, as Sadik said, for the benefit of all the citizens in this country, on the whole of the territory, but it's only for your personal promotion. And as they say -- don't trust the Danejac and when they bring gifts, and your initiatives that are beautiful, patriotic, sounding to the public, cause trouble and unrest in this House and make decisions difficult. That's why we decided at the SDA Club that we would no longer support your initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8224	Thank you. Replica, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8225	Replica and business intervention. The Honorable Chairman on three occasions you said the discussion was over, but then you allowed it to develop in this way. So on three occasions, you'll have a stenogram of the session, you said the discussion was over. A colleague who's president of the SDA Club. Two sessions ago, a respected colleague, I was speaking for this speaker and I mentioned the same grammar, about this pay phone, and I initiated it, and you didn't adopt it, on the contrary, you rejected my initiative. You threw her away. And that's very interesting, your club has rejected, wonderful, and now you're in. And that's good, that's also great. Now, let me tell you, I found another grammar. In the Franciscan monastery in Fojnica, 100 years older than this, the grammar of the Bosnian language is preserved. It's just that it's not written in a letter called Latin or Cyrillic, it's written in Arabic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8226	Please stick to the agenda. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8227	And now you're doing a translation of that grammar. Mrs. Krišto needs you to know this, too, because it's interesting, it's guarded by the Franciscans, you know. It doesn't matter, but this should be known and that this has gone beyond the scope of human rights. The first member of the Constitution, which we need to respect, is the Convention on Human Rights. As much as we respect her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8228	Thank you. Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8229	A brief chairman. Here's the information, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8230	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8231	Can I have a colleague? Oh, thank you. Here, we know what the position of the SDA Club is when it comes to the applicant of this initiative. , although I believe, zaime, that is...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8232	Mr. Backović, don't disturb the representative, you are now, denied your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8233	And did you see who was interrupting me?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8234	Please, you have a warning. You have a warning, you've interrupted a representative who's got his word. Here you go, Mr. Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8235	Thank you, Chairman. So we heard the SDA's position on the proposing initiatives, and I believe that at the SDA Club, they decided not to support Denis Bećirović's initiatives, although I think it's bad when one serious political party, and I want to believe that it is serious, is committed to initiatives not based on content, but on who the promoter is. And I think it's good to have this input from the SDA Club, and it'd be just as good if we got info on that club session whether it went peacefully, was it all right? Was it a quorum? Yes, it is. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8236	Thank you. Replica, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8237	I thank the chairman. I'll replicate my colleague Sarajlić. It is a pity that the SDA will not support Mr Bećirović in his efforts to, above all, respect the Constitution of this country and actually correct all those things that the SDA has done, leading the state over the past 20 years, brought with its political partners that a nation may be left without its own language. Of course, we will fight hard, even in the way that Mr. Denis tried to warn this Parliament about events that are very important and that happen every day, especially in Republika Srpska, and they have ties with the Bosnian language, and we will not use any demagogue flossules to replace this, to replace it, but, as I said above all, in respect of the BiH Constitution. I'm sorry that the SDA I guess you're all unique in this, 31 will not fight in the next period for what, let's say Denis Bećriović will start and has nothing to do with the respect of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8238	Thank you. Second replica, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8239	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask the chairman to get us back in this frame somehow, I'm talking about the agenda, we've gone far. It seems not a good way to discuss this with the adoption of the agenda on such a big issue, such as the issue of denial of Bosnian language. And so I was just kind of ready to ask my colleague Bećirović that, in a bit of an unconscious way, he wanted to draw attention to this huge issue with his resignation, to actually remain only on the issue, that it was possible to delegate it as a part of the agenda. It'd be good to talk about. Not only is it a major political problem, but it is passed on to education, and we no longer have time to postpone for some next sessions, the school year begins. Actually, it's two connected. And what is MP Ahmetović and what is related to the language is closely connected and I think it would be good to talk about it as soon as possible. By the way, it is likely that an ignorant colleague, Sarajlić, has said he will not support the initiatives of individual MPs. I guess we're setting ourselves up according to the initiatives, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8240	Thank you. Thank you for the suggestion, of course. Second replica, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8241	More, Madam Chairman, business intervention. Since I quoted them last time, I won't quote them again, so sit down, Secretary of Parliament, and keep your mouth shut. When you warn and don't see how it's caused it, it's right that even to whoever causes it, that's what I'm talking about, reacts from the bench and addresses me directly. That was the case here. You saw that I was facing someone who talked to me and told me that we, I don't want this speaker, I don't want to hurt him, about the Arabic letter, and that we're towards the Arapi, etc. So if you remind me then let me say this to you that it may even be offensive, because I said that there is grammar written in Arabic, the grammar of Bosnian, when reading it, who knows it, reads it in Bosnian, does not read it in Arabic, because it can... be written in any letter, by verb, Cyrillic, Latin, Arabic, Greek and any letter, depending on how you write it. But he writes Bosnian grammar. And I am neither Arap nor Arabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8242	Thank you. Debate, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8243	Thank you. Well, I have to say that, uh, the first conversation I had with my colleague Backović was a private conversation, not public. If I wanted to go public, I'd stand up for a pay phone and talk about it in public. I thought it was a conversation between the two of us. Since a colleague has now expressed something that has absolutely nothing to do with what I've been saying then of course I have to say it now, because it wouldn't make sense to remain unarranged, especially some of the insinuations that my colleague Backović made. I asked my colleague Backović if what he said means that the Franciscan monastery keeps the grammar of the Bosnian language written in Arabic, following the analogy of his discussion, means that even now it should be written in Arabic script, nothing else. Insinuations that I was talking about the origin of someone, about the need for Arabic letters, etc. They really don't make sense. Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth, you know what I said, it's not right to say what absolutely doesn't have anything to do with what the two of us talked about. And the two of us understand each other very well when it comes to the letter and when it comes to the language, no matter what you or I call them.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8244	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. According to the Rules of Procedure, the replicas have been used and at this point I am concluding the debate on the agenda. Of these proposals that we heard through the debates, in some way and replicas, we have a proposal from MP Nikola Špirić that this point be classified as point 1. at the House of Representatives of this session and that if that point passes to pause. And the point is: The BiH Council of Ministers' Action Plan in response to the global refugee crisis, humanitarian and security response. I am voting to include this item in today's agenda as the 1st item of this session Vote now. Nine votes against 16, eight abstentions. No entity majority, no general majority. I find that this item is not included in today's session agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote. Vote now. With 10 votes against, 19 against, 10 abstentions, no general, no entity majority, I find that this item is not included in today's session agenda of the House of Representatives. I find that the 17th session of the House has the following: 33 Agenda 1. The adoption of the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-14/15, of 07/09/2015; 4. A request by MP Nikola Lovrinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-15, of 07/09/2015; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-8/15, of 29.05.2015, with the correction of the technical error in the Bill Proposal, No: 01-02-1-8515, of 01.06.2015. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15, of 02.07.2015. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrežalica, Law No: 01-02-11/15, of 30.07.2015. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08/2015, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights; 9. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Act No: 01,02- 02-4-1086/15, of 31.07.2015; 10. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02,01/1,02/1-08-861/15, dated 30.06.2015; 11. Report on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces and police officers in peace support operations between 01 July and 31 December 2014, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-03-1110/15, from 10.08.2015; 12. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2014, issue 05/1-50-13-29-9-7/15, dated 19.08.2015 and Plan of the Independent Committee for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-818/15, of 17.06.2015; 13. A report with a workshop on the subject: "The Legislative Framework, the Current Status and Plans of BiH institutions in the field of defence and security", with a proposal for conclusions, materials of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 01,02,03/1-50-3-687/15, of 26.08.2015; 14. Proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the adoption and integration of bh citizens returning to BiH on the basis of a readmission agreement and a proposal for an action plan for the period 2015-2018, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 03,01,02-41-1049/15, of 23.07.2015; 15. Proposal for a resolution on the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Zaim Backović, issue: 01-02-12-1128/15, of 25.08.2015; 16. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22 July 2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, no later than six months from the date of adoption of this initiative, the Proposal for a Law on the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue: 01-50-1036/15, of 22.07.2015; 34 17. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: Representatives of the Club of the DF, issue: 01-34-1-1190/15, of 14.09.2015; 18. Proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and on the study of mother tongues throughout BiH", issue: 01-50-1191/15, since 15/09/15; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on international road transport of passengers and freight, No 01,02-05-2-1098/15, of 05.08.2015; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of veterinary cooperation, No 01,02-05-2-1109/15, of 10.08.2015; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union Fiscalis 2020 programme, No: 01,02-05-2-111515, of 18.08.2015; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement to the 2011 IPA Cross-border Cooperation Programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a programme of cross-border cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro as part of the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, issue: 01,02-05-2-138/15, of 28.08.2015; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-05-2-139/15, of 28.08.2015; 24. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement establishing the International Organisation of ST-EP (Employment of Poverty through Sustainable Tourism), issue: 01,02-05-2-1146/15, of 31.08.2015; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on cooperation in the field of science and technology between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 01,02-05-2-1158/15, of 04/09/2015. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8247	I thank the chairman. So when it comes to the record answering questions, then down at the end of the page it is said that the answers provided were commented by the following MPs, so it lists me. I didn't comment on any answer. Namely, I only asked for an answer to be delivered 35 earlier, so if not impossible code, so where I stand is listed to say that Nikola Lovrinović has requested a submitted reply to the BiH prosecutor's office earlier. So I didn't comment on the answer. Nothing more, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8248	Thank you very much. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8249	So, commentary, I received a partial reply on the number of ministerial advisers, chairpersons, etc. And that's where he moves into the diapazon from two counselors to nine. Unfortunately, I can only conclude from this answer that this is not in line with...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8250	We're on the record, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8251	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8252	There's no one reported on this agenda anymore. I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing were asked by representatives: Senad Šepić one initiative directed to the BiH Council of Ministers, BiH Border Police, the second BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the third College of the House of Representatives; Nikola Lovrinović asked the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Justice, and asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office; Damir Arnaut asked the additional question to be asked by the Minister of Justice; Safer Demirović asked the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs again; Mirsad Đonlagić requested that his representative initiative be delivered to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs 03.03.2015, a reply delivered on 25.03.2015, again to the same ministry. The following answers were submitted to today’s session. On the issue of Nermina Kapetanović, which was asked in oral form at the 15th session, the BiH Council of Ministers delivered the response. At last session, the MP asked the next session to comment on the response received due to its scope, and the question asked in oral form at the 13th session of the House was delivered by the BiH Civilian Ministry. On one initiative by Senad Šepić, set in writing, the Council of Ministers delivered the response to the second initiative by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of 36 Education, Science and Youth Canton of Sarajevo, while questions were asked in writing by the BiH Council of Ministers, two answers. At the issue of Saša Magazinović, which was put in writing, the BiH Ministers' Council provided a reply, a second answer to the issue asked in writing by the BiH Ministry of Justice. On the issue of Šemsudin Mehmedović, put in writing, the answer was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers. At the question of Mirsad Đonlagić, which was asked in oral form, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a reply. To the additional issue of Damir Arnaut, put in writing, the response was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers. On the issue of Šefik Džaferović, which was asked in oral form at the 16th session of the House, the BiH Council of Ministers delivered the response to the BiH Direct Taxation Authority. Who wants to comment on the answers received? Representative, i.e. Deputy, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8254	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. At last session, I asked the BiH Council of Ministers, which institution Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with overseeing Bosnia and Herzegovina's border crossings, whether these controls are being carried out, whether reports are being made and to whom they are being delivered, and what the appearance of border crossings are. I was particularly interested in who was responsible for pointing out the national flag at the border crossings, its appearance and its state. I got an answer that came from the Directorate for indirect taxation which is actually competent and responsible when it comes to the state of the border crossings. The answer also states that the Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible for the markings placed at border crossings in the zone of the travel belt. I am pleased with the answer because the answer gave the situation as it is, but I am concerned with the content of the response and I call on the BiH Council of Ministers to pay attention to this issue. It is a symbolic issue, it is a matter for which there is no need to single out any significant material resources at all, pay attention to the issue of asking and the appearance of the national flag, both at border crossings and elsewhere in accordance with the Law on the Use of the coat of arms and flag of BiH, that when we cross the border where the national flag is placed we are proud and not that because of its appearance and the situation in which we find ourselves sad, as we are very often in a situation, especially when we cross the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This isn't expensive and this is possible to do. If anything, then it's possible to do. I can't believe that at the border crossing there are people who are customs officers who are border police officers watching for months as I saw the flag, as I saw at a border crossing, standing asleep, not down, but fell on half the mast that rusted and leaned on a bush that grew in the meantime, all torn and dirty. Well, it better not be like that at that crossing. Make an inspection, tour all the border crossings, place the masts and horrify the flag in the position it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8255	Thank you very much, Deputy Džaferović. Next to comment, Šemsudin Mehmedović reported. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8256	Thank you. As I said, I received a partial answer to the question of the number of ministerial advisors and other officials. And I say there's one unequal approach from two advisors to nine, as many in certain ministries as there are. And unfortunately I can conclude that this is not in line with citizens' demands to rationalise public spending... Because having so many advisors or being incompetently elected and appointed officials, since, here, I want to believe that it is not the case, or that public officials working in certain ministries are not doing their job, so we have to hire certain advisers or it's about the arrest of the merits, under the alleged signs, and again by the personal selection of appointed officials. However, I think this area is unsettled and, this is how I initiate the Council of Ministers to arrange this area and to prescribe who, how many advisers can be and how many. And, of course, I'm left to realize that the College has used its right not to answer this part of the question because it can't be, it can't be asked the question of the College, but here I am renewing the question of how much of the advisors of our College's members receive a monthly salary and to see how much it costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8257	Thank you. Commentary, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8258	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I've got another question again, an additional question, an answer from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I use the opportunity since the minister is here to ask that – what is the purpose of the additional question if almost the full answer will be copied from the first answer. Then why do I need a supplemental question and why are you sending me an additional answer? This is about extremely important matter, I have shown that it is harmful to the foreign political reputation and foreign policy interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I asked you to prepare it in collaboration with the Foreign Ministry, I don't know if it's because I don't have any written official indications that it is, but I would ask you as a minister, the citizens are very revolutionized because they get bureaucratic answers from various authorities of the administration. And I totally understand them because as an MP, I get bureaucratic answers, I don't get an answer to the point. So you respected the form, you answered my supplemental question. I can't make an addition to the Rules of Procedure, and your work is done. But you realize in the end that we have a problem, you realize that the countries in the environment don't have it because they've solved the issue differently and then you say – eventually when the law changes sometimes, maybe we'll change it too. I mean, really, look out, that's one bureaucratic answer that doesn't solve the problem. I know you don't sit here and write answers to these parliamentary questions, but I really do ask you to put in a little order, this is the second time I get a bureaucratic answer to a parliamentary question. Point your employees there to give answers that solve the problem, not only fill the form. I will forward this to the Foreign Affairs Commission to entertain this issue because it is a really important issue, we have a proven foreign policy problem, damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign interests. I'm going to ask the Foreign Affairs Commission to move on... and this 38 way please don't, give some answers in one essential way and not just to satisfy the form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8259	Thank you very much. Commentary, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8260	Thank you. As one of my predecessors said, I'm satisfied with the answer but I'm concerned with the content. And this time I'm going to repeat, everything I'm about to say here isn't personally addressed either to the Minister of Civil Affairs or to the current Council of Ministers' meeting because the problem is very old and the situation is what they found. The captured Ministry of Civil Affairs, i.e. two sectors of the Health and European Integration Sector, in strong strategies, action plans, regulations, with very unfortunate systematicizations that act as if they were directed towards certain people, because there is nothing to do with the medical college of political sciences, legal or economic, so it seems to me that the systems are designed for certain people, which makes me less concerned. I'm worried about the fact that they claim they don't know the Ministry of Civil Affairs seal was in use. Yes, and that was the reason why I didn't want to participate in the work... which can be witnessed by a respected representative of Prodanović who remembers it. I want to say that what worries me is that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the follow-up of the full administrative congestion of the ministries of the patients does not have the right to live and to health in the way that all international conventions on the protection of human rights guarantee them. I ask – why patients in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not even in their rights to guarantee them all the charters, why children and adults in Bosnia and Herzegovina have to solve their problems regarding transplants, that is, organ transplants, unfortunately, outside of Bosnia and Herzegovina in..., when we have... A clinical center in Tuzla that no one will ask what else you need, a great team of surgeons who can perform bone marrow transplants, kidneys and other organs, but have no political will to do so. Because it's Tuzla, because it's not some other center. Why is the salary of a neurosurgeon 1,400 marks in Zenica and so many are living for four or five days in Vienna as translator of the Ministry of Civil Affairs? Why aren't medical intervention centres defined outside Bosnia and Herzegovina... at state level? Why did it become normal for 10 babies to die in a short period of time in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one hospital, within which the bacterium of klebsiella appeared and no one is criminally responsible for it? Why did it become normal that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we did not equalise the rights of persons with disabilities under all universal rights and declarations of the need for equalising the rights of persons with disabilities on the basis of equal disability, taking care naturally of civilian war victims and members of the fighting population? I am very concerned about why at every step of the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina we are violating human rights and we do not have equal access, using an electronic book, using the fact that we have the right to live. We are covered by reforms and I believe deep in the minister, in his great commitment to work I am quite sure that this Ministry will make sure that this moves safely, even in bilateral agreements with other countries to provide medical assistance in states where Bosnia and Herzegovina is not. I truly believe that you will. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8261	Thank you very much. Commentary, MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8262	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, for the record, it's not a comment again because I have no answer to the question. The second time, then, I'm potential to answer my question about the death of a returnee in Travnik in '98. The years and the cops, from the prosecution that I sent. So, Mr. Arnaut's advantage, he at least got, uh, as he said, he got the answer bureaucratically, I didn't get any so I can't even comment, so. But for the record, so I'm potential to finally answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8263	Thank you very much. Commentary, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8264	Madam Chairman, I thank you. I warmly welcome you as other colleagues in the O.R. On this occasion, I want to express my surprise and disappointment that I simply did not get an answer to my asked question. I have had a hard time getting a response from the Council of Ministers, and it is about the use of the car and the furious chase of cars along the roads of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both the one in which the official is driving and those in front or behind that vehicle. But from the presidency, of course, I didn't get an answer, so I'm just wondering if I can't ask the question about the functioning of the presidency, no matter what it was about. It's just amazing that here's the fourth time, along with written interventions, I ask and ask the Bureau to provide me with an answer to my parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8265	Thank you very much. I don't see any more commentary applications at the moment. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to, on the basis of Article 27 and, in addition to consultations with the kolegij, to apply my business law, to call on point 8, limit the duration of the debate in relation to the next items of today's session to 5 minutes. Moving to point three 40 Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The draft law was submitted in the procedure of 07/09/2015 with a request for an urgent examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on this request. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8267	I thank the chairman. Since we had different requirements at previous sessions, i.e. initiatives, including amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, I do not see why this is urgent when we have always received a reply from the Council of Ministers, but also here in the debates, and by committees where members and members of certain committees agreed on this issue, that one set of amendments and additions to the Law should be made. It is therefore absolutely unclear to me why the Council of Ministers referred to only one segment of this Act, which is transport, i.e. on behalf of the transport fee from work and to work. Well, if there's room for me to answer – what's so urgent about this segment instead of proposing a package of amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8268	Thank you very much. Mirsad Đonlagić called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8269	Thank you, Madam Chairman, once again. About my discussion is quite short, of course this five-minute limit seems to me that I would talk too much, but anyway, I want to say that it's very similar to what my colleague Gasal was saying. We from the Alliance for a Better Future since the start of our mandate have been pushing for rational business, for a rational attitude towards budget spending, we are against incorrect and unfair charges for what should not be charged. And on every proposal, let's say, as was the proposal on the removal of white bread and, as we will now have a debate on the proposal to amend the Law on Salaries, which was referred to in the procedure by fellow Arnaut, we were told – so wait, don't rush and the Council of Ministers prepares a complete solution that will come to Parliament within 30 days. And now we get this rather ambitious name of the Amendment to the Law on this, and then when you look at what the amendment is you see that it is simply amazing that such a minor amendment as a bill, that is, the amendment of the law on amendments can come to debate in Parliament, and we do not have a complete solution. We absolutely do not see an excuse for such a document to come, especially not in this way without a commission procedure, where the competent commissions would give an opinion whether it is true that this 41 evaluation, as it has been said, will not require additional funds for the application of this Act on Amendments to the Law, whether it is so or not. Therefore, we do not see, above all, the need and reason for such a law to come just like this and that it goes in this way without a commission procedure to come to Parliament for debate. It would be more correct if we were already at this session or in the extreme case that it was announced that the next session would be a complete solution that has been spoken of for a long time and where we have promises that the Council of Ministers will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8270	Thank you. Debate, Zaim Backović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8271	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On top of what my predecessors said, I was already talking about this pay phone. In order to even think about something that means total harmonisation, I would no longer call it this, total harmonisation of the nomenclature from bottom to top, it is necessary to make a whole law. Every partial solution gives the possibility of internal malfeasance, whether you want it or not. Let the possibility of being differentiated here in this House, everyone will go to what is called first class, first category and will not be differentiated again. Give by what's done we'll all be active to the pain and again we'll all, we'll have to find a way to bring the whole solution. The whole solution is something that gives us the basics, and let's see, of course, because I e-mailed that question, to see which, as well as on what grounds are people as example, I don't know, air architect, builder with you, machineman with you, traffic politician, etc., on which basis they get this job when they're looking for someone who's an expert in that, when you're looking for someone who's in the social community, how they're advisors of expert commissions who deal exclusively with the profession, and they're not touching the points of education, and in their work so far they didn't have what they're leading and need, look at miracles, to negotiate with the EU about what our future means. This is like what happened now in Croatia where fishermen, or those who deal with fish, negotiated how honey will be transported through Neum, so Dubrovnik bees die because they can't go through Neum because it's not agreed. That's why we have to have a complete solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8272	Thank you very much. Debate, Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8273	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues I, too, support discussions both at this session and at the previous one, and our views and conclusions that we have a full view of this area and that we expect the Council of Ministers, as it is tasked, to do more finally this law or laws concerning this area, including sublegal acts relating to 42 to the application of these laws. Here, we insist on it several times, unfortunately we still don't get it. We even have some answers from our colleagues in the House of Peoples, but here, I won't comment on that part. About the Law which is on our agenda on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. Yes, this is a small law in terms of width, it applies to exactly one thing, and that is related to the fees of transportation to work and transportation from work. And what I'm going to support is the reasoning that the existing system and what's in place is that it enables abuses, but more than that is an analysis of the financial this is that this amount is constantly increasing year by year. It is argued that in 2012 it was 27.939.867, in 2013 28.541.474, meaning some 500,000 increased in 2013 compared to 2014, then in 2014 29.017,862 for some cca 500,000, so that there is a incomplete 1.100,000 difference between 2012 and 2014. If it starts with this trend then it would probably expect it to be more than in 2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8274	I ask the representative to stick to the debate, there is an urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8275	For these reasons, I support the passing of the law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8276	Thank you very much. Here, at this point I don't see any more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. A request by MP Nikola Lovrinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 07/09/2015 with an urgent request for an examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on this request. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8278	I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, will also ask for some reason, perhaps for Mr Lovrinović as a pronoun, why the urgency for the urgent procedure of this law when there are absolutely no points, i.e. none of the amendments and additions, and absolutely absolutely no need to change anything metrically. Also, if we decided not to support or support this for an emergency procedure, I'd have a lot of that on the mere 43 content of this law. So right now, in front of the Democratic Front Club, I will declare that we will not support this emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8279	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8280	Well, maybe I should have done it before, so maybe a colleague wouldn't even ask questions, and she decided how she'd vote. I thank you for this provision, so you saw on the agenda how urgent and important it is, and it is language issues, issues of the national group of subjects. The obstructions that were present at the beginning of the school year of 2015-2016 were the reason for me to try to offer a solution, so I might take the opportunity to say what we would normally say in Bosnia and Herzegovina if it weren't for Hrvat, see how we keep that dictionary in Franciscan monasteries. And so, when we try to offer some solution that's a way out of this situation, here's the DF Club saying it won't be for that, well, we'll see how the others are going to manifest themselves. I personally think that this is a solution, that it can be implemented within a month at levels that are authorized to pass laws and sublegal acts and that it can solve some of the questions that are absolutely absolutely right now, you have seen in the agenda, very important, as far as I can see. So here's what I'm hoping my colleagues will realize is that it's one of the offers to get rid of it, if not, we'll see what we're going to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8281	Thank you very much. Deputy Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8282	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers, guests, not to be harmed by this list. It's too serious to be able to argue in this way, in principle take or leave. I understand Mr. Lovrinović's efforts to make his contribution to resolving this problem, so that some of the current issues we have are resolved, but I fear that the proposed solution is not offered a variant that is completely different from the system that we have set up, when it comes to developing and strengthening basic, secondary and higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, here are the solutions by which the constituent peoples organise schools, the state should do it, and the forms of organisation of the state from the highest to the lowest or vice versa, and some solutions are offered that are related to the school's own administrations, which is the opposite of what we have in the Framework Law on basic and secondary education and in all the education laws adopted by this Parliament. Therefore, I am informing the House of Representatives that the SDA will not support the urgency of this procedure, will not support the shortened procedure, let this go into regular procedure, and then in the regular procedure we will discuss the very essence of the issue. 44 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8283	Thank you very much. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8284	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In order to get to anything called education at all, we would have to make fundamental changes and go first to amend the Framework Law. The framework law laid the basis for anarchy and schooling in Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the baseline, you end up with a high end and you get a country relative to the number of residents with the highest number, partial view, institutions, or schools in Europe. So I'm saying this metrically because we can compare to the size of, say, a Minhen. Sort of. And we see the final quality where it is. Therefore, the amendments to the Framework Law, which will lay the foundations right, should first be amended. Second, Article or Article 2. – Primary and secondary schools, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the rules of the Statute of the School will determine the official language and letter of the constituent people.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8285	Emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8286	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8287	It's an emergency procedure debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8288	BPS Sefer Halilović is absolutely opposed to this way of passing laws concerning basic education of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8289	Thank you very much. Controversy, representative of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8290	I thank the chairman. I'm afraid this law offers no solutions or improvements but only to encourage further discrimination. And I fully myself, here I must say that we have the opinion of the Ministry of Education of Republika Srpska which says, has made remarks on all and one of this member and in all and one member says that this directly comes into collage with existing entity and cantonal laws and even some powers are lifted and going to the expense of jurisdiction. In particular, here I will draw your attention to, and bring even within the same ethnic or national group of children into 45 discriminatory positions relative to each other. In Article 3, it is said – when a national group is organized when at school, if there are fewer than 5 members of another people at school. What are we going to do, and now take a school with 100 students, so 5% that means for 5 students, take a school from, I don't know, 10 students that's what it means in one school you'll have 5 students right to a group of national classes, and in another school you'll have one student.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8291	We're only having an emergency hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8292	Of course, we won't support an emergency procedure either, and I don't think we'll be able to support these changes later in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8293	Thank you very much. The debate, MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8294	I won't be long again. I am sorry that in 2015 we receive one of these draft laws in the BiH Parliament, definitely a law that leads to further segregation in our society, especially among children. And it's obvious that your 2005 shift by the high president(?) As Minister of Education, she wasn't for no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8295	Thank you very much. Debate, replica, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8296	Okay, so you've entered the metrics, obviously the subject is interesting and obviously you want to solve it. Well done. So a school with 100 students probably according to pedagogical standards in RS cannot be a legal entity so that it cannot be applied in such a way, therefore, it is a matter of profession. The national group of cases is subject to the 2002 agreement and should be implemented in the laws of all authorised bodies in BiH, which has not been done. So when this is offered to you and when you need a solution, when you need to give that answer, when you need to solve the question of language use in the teaching plan and process, you don't want to solve it, so. There may also be a problem in Sarajevo with disrespecting the rights of children and their parents to learn their own language or so, but there is no since parents have not said, or your parents may not say that. So, since the debate on the urgency of the procedure is however you like, of course this was my contribution to try to solve this issue that this system works once because the Constitution only said what official languages are in the Framework Law, it's also just translated and nowhere is 46 said how official languages are used in the teaching process, but we have problems, but here we will obviously have more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8297	Thank you very much. The debate, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8298	Thank you very much. I've prepared for the debate, but as you insist that we only make a statement as to whether we're going into an emergency procedure or a regular procedure, I'm going to be honest with you about what I think. According to what I've prepared for a public hearing, I'd like to remove this immediately from the agenda. So, I think this sentence is enough, that the concept of segregation is created, that artificially created term segregation in education, should practically be removed from the public scene, and we Bog already knows how long we have the problem of two schools under one roof and similar issues of these in RS and other things. With education this does not offer improvement but brings us back a step and in terms of detail, the type that all students will study letters that are in official use, in BiH it was before now offering something quite different, so one backward and I don't think this makes any sense, but here when we discuss it then, when we enter the metrics and the proposals offered in these amendments of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8299	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8300	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, the SDP Club of BiH does not support the emergency procedure, and here, by the way, we do not support it in this way, as Mr Lovrinović suggested, and we will not even support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8301	Thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more complaints. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point five Ad.5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-8/15 of 29.05.2015, with correction of technical error in the Bill Proposal, No: 01-02-1-8/15, from 01.06.2015 (second reading) 47 The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 15th session of the House held on 22.07.2015. The responsible Committee for Finance and Budget 25.08.2015 requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the report by 10 days. The college has granted a request for an extension of the deadline. The competent commission submitted a report on 15 September 2015 with two amendments that became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. I'm opening a debate under the draft law on salaries and fees in institutions. Damir Arnaut, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8303	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like to emphasise that I am taking part in the debate in accordance with Article 75(2) as a proposing and I would like to ask for information on how I can time my time, whether you are limiting my time to 5 minutes, or if I have 15 or some other time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8304	All discussions are limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8305	Including the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8307	Thank you. The draft law amending the Law on Payments and Receipts in BiH institutions, i.e. the additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH Institutions, which I am now proposing, has been given a positive opinion to the Constitutional Commission at the first commission stage and the competent Commission on Finance and Budget, and yesterday and this week, and the Commission responsible for finance and the budget in the second phase, and if adopted today, this will be a final step when it comes to the House of Representatives, and I hope that the House of Peoples, unlike the "white bread" at which they are already waiting, for the abolition of "white bread" on which they have been waiting since March, will act or act urgently in accordance with the procedures and will finally abolish fees for commission work during working hours for all BiH institutions, entities, canton and Brcko District. I am extremely pleased with what the Finance and Budget Commission has done at its session this week, which is that it is a priority that the interests of BiH citizens and the reduction of public spending and to put aside so-called. entity interests, etc. i.e. to support the principle of establishing an institutional hierarchy, because now the fees paid by the BiH institution will not be granted by entity officials and will be asked when their working hours are and also applies to other levels of government. 48 I would also like to point out for the sake of public interest, but also for the sake of maintaining the integrity of this House, that the Commission for Finance and Budget has submitted two amendments to this law and that these are amendments signed by 7 members of the Finance and Budget Commission, so these are amendments of all seven members, and after that, they entered the minutes and the stenogram of that Commission after Aleksandra Pandurević, Salko Sokolović, Amir Fazlić and Mr Mirsad Isaković, my colleague from the SBB Club, officially gave up their individual amendments, and signed a joint amendment. So, unlike anything you can read today in the means of public informing the statements of some MPs, I mean specifically Mrs Pandurević, it is not an amendment to the SDS, so officially this is an amendment of the 7 members of the Commission who signed it, and I hope you can at least stick to the minutes that are here and also a stenogram. So, you gave up your amendment as counterpart Isaković gave up. But in any case, what's most important is that this amendment bill has been signed by 7 of the 9 members of the Commission, that this maltene guarantees the adoption of this law at the House of Representatives today and that the deadline that the House of Nations has set for itself since 90 days stands out in the middle of next month. 90 days have been given to the Council of Ministers to deliver a comprehensive bill, however, in the next less than 40 days, the Council of Ministers will not pass a comprehensive law, so that I hope that finally "white bread" and commission fees will be abolished during working time, not tomorrow's but at the next meeting of the People's House, and that BiH citizens will finally begin to feel all the useful effects of these initiatives. As a conclusion, I want to remind you of the next important fact. With the Law on the Elimination of “white bread, ” I would ask only for the attention of my colleagues and ministers not to disturb me in the debate. Thank you. With the proposal of the Law on the Elimination of "white bread" and this proposal for abolishing commission fees, the four of us from the SBB Club will achieve savings according to the Budget of BiH that far exceed the cost of the four of us per Budget BiH by sitting in these parliamentary benches. Imagine if every MP were to make a proposal here to make such savings, that it would ultimately cost no BiH citizen, not that it cost them anything but the four of us cost nothing and can almost say that
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8308	Time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8309	Well, I was distracted, really, here's just to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8310	Okay, you're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8311	Thank you. And I hope that other MPs will follow the opposition's example of how it can be acted in a situation where the Council of Ministers does not deliver draft laws. We have suffered a lot of criticism for offering bill proposals even though it is our constitutional and business law, and this has proved how millions of savings are achieved. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8312	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8313	Thank you. I have to say, I have a few dilemmas about this law. Firstly, several sessions ago, we reached a conclusion here that we tasked the Council of Ministers to bring a full text of amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. So this House here voted, voted such a conclusion, that, after that conclusion, we would continue with partial solutions and bill proposals that basically don't solve the problem. At least they don't solve it completely. Does this way of working mean that the next sessions will have a new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries, so the new Law on Amendments and Supplements, and so from session to session, one Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries, not making sure that someone has to look at it fully and give, as we have concluded here, a proposal to Parliament for adoption or debate. The second thing I don't understand is the principle of working time. Could the only principle of working time be important for someone's income? Does it have anything to do with the systematization of jobs and work assignments? Can someone, who doesn't write it in the system to do some work, of course, do anything, do some work in the frame and out of business? What if someone outside of work is doing a job that's in his systematization of jobs and work assignments? Does that mean that when he does it out of business, he'll get it no matter what he normally has to do and vice versa? So there's a series of dilemmas about this. I personally don't think you can just take the principle of working time as a criterion. Of course, the question of righteousness and justice, each law must have and contain those elements within it. I must say that when the fees employed in institutions were looked at, that the principle was not met during the previous period, and that individuals had several times more engagements in different committees and therefore received significantly higher incomes than others with the same or similar facilities in the same or similar jobs. Neither will this law remove that possibility. I was much more inclined to think when it came to the agenda of the Law by the Council of Ministers that the amount paid for working on boards is limited to some percentage of the salary paid by employees. So someone can't do it in one month, I'm talking to you now and you need to do an analysis, you can't get more on the name of work on the boards of directors and supervisory boards 30% of the salary or 20% of the salary. In this way, they would achieve the principle of justice so that all more people would be involved in the boards of directors and that more people would ultimately work and that more serious work would be because they would work on smaller committees and smaller committees. I do not think that the aim of this law is to employees in institutions do not work on these committees, but the consequence of the application of such a solution is possible as well. Since it doesn't say that to people in the systematization of jobs and work assignments, they can refuse to do so. So it's very debateable for me if we define things this way and it opens up, solves one problem and opens 10 new problems. It would be a good idea if we had left this to the Council of Ministers that, in the coming period, together with all the other objections and objections that I agree with, part of them from the SBB colleagues, make one whole solution and offer in the debate and that at least for this mandate we should resolve this issue in one general way. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8314	Thank you. The word has an MP, Nikola Lovrinović. And there's a replica, Mr. Arnaut, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8315	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović, you see, SBB's club is... ___________(?) Novaković. I'm sorry, he mentioned you, Mr. Novaković. The SBB Club proposed in January the Law on the Elimination of "white bread". So then this House adopted the conclusion that it was waiting, the Council of Ministers was given for 30 days, which is why we adopted the proposal for a bill to abolish "white bread". Then it went to the House of Peoples, so the House of Nations refused to put it on the agenda for four months, past the Rules of Procedure completely. So they finally said they were giving the Council of Ministers another 30 days. I proposed this bill on the suspension of fees in May. So the Commission for Finance in its first reading delayed a 30-day statement to give the Council of Ministers more time on that first deadline to deliver a comprehensive law. So in her second reading, she delayed another 20 days this time to give the Council of Ministers more time. So how much longer? Who does the Council of Ministers work for? Are we working for the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers working for this House? Who's the boss here? Well, people can't deliver a reform agenda without three mistakes to make in it, and that's just three mistakes I quickly discovered, who knows how many more mistakes there are, and 20 of them couldn't see those three mistakes. So they don't respect the deadlines this House of Representatives sets for them. The home of the people was very generous to this Council of Minsitarians meeting, so he gave them 90 days, another 90 days. It expires in less than 40 days. And if you think the council can deliver all this in less than 40 days, I'm telling you for sure now that it can't, it's time for the People's House. If they do so until the House of Nations next time they sit, that is, by the time that time is up, it is an honor. But everything this House of Representatives did, all the deadlines we gave them, they broke through. So you can't treat someone like that like you're constantly giving them new and new deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8317	Replica, MP Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8318	I didn't think I'd need to get up to replicate, but things just don't work out anymore, and it doesn't go to be quiet about these findings being made at the expense of the Council of Ministers, and I have to get up and intervene and say the following. This Council of Ministers and this assembly of the 51 Presidencies and this assembly of parliament have been unblocked after years of stasis by BiH's European path. The Stabilisation and Association Treaty since 2008 came into force during the term of office, this term of office. This Council of Ministers has defined the reform agenda and entity governments have done so, its implementation is under way and BiH's candidate status is expected for EU membership. When we talk about someone's work, let's be correct and be serious. We are MPs, and everyone we pronounce is very important and very important. Because when it comes to the work of an institution, it is fair to say it as it is, not to politicise things for these or those reasons. That's it, thank you. 13:02:51 ---13:51--
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8319	Thank you. Replica Mr. Arnaut, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8320	Thank you. You see, uh, I've already replicated to Mr. Džaferović at the last or the previous session of this House on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, the EU's competent institution made a decision, gave the green light to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement before this Council of Ministers took office, on March 30th, the Council of Ministers entered into office, the EU's decision to give a green light to the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement before March 30th, which I replicated to you in the minutes and last time. _________(?) 15. March 15th, this
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8322	Please, let's get back to the subject, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8323	Then the replica,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8324	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8325	Is it a replica, I replicate to a man what he said, so here's the correction of the wrong quote under the same Rule of Procedure. So, uh, the fact that there are mechanisms for this decision to take effect within 52 specified times after it is adopted is the same as when you say the law comes into force 8 days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH". So let's just say that the last assembly of Parliament passed the law, passed the law and in the meantime came a new assembly of Parliament, came out "the Official Messenger" 8 days after that came into force, can you say that your assembly of Parliament passed that law? Oh, come on, I mean, let's be honest, the decision on green light for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was made by the EU before this Council of Ministers' meeting took office and that's a fact, I already pointed to it once, and please don't deceive the public on these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8326	Replica Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8327	You see, Mr. Arnaut, I respect your opposition status and respect your right to express your views as an opposition, only I invite you to be a constructive opposition and invite us all to be constructive. When I spoke about unblocking the European path and entering the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, I spoke about the Presidency, I spoke about the Council of Ministers and I spoke about Parliament, I spoke about this assembly of Parliament. The Council of Ministers, therefore, is true that the Stabilisation and Association Treaty came into force, and that the Council of Ministers was then appointed, but all the initiatives came from the authorities elected in this mandate, from the BiH presidency, and here. We had the Council of Ministers in a technical mandate, it's fair to say for all of us, the opposition here should serve all of us, it should be a correction of government and what people are, and there's a lot of it, honest done, not from a session to a session just inventing negatives and bringing them to the expense of the Council of Ministers. Well, didn't we deserve it, here's a man from the Council of Ministers who unblocked the export of agricultural products of animal origin from BiH to the EU, isn't it fair to say here, that this was done by the Council of Ministers. Well, they formed a reform agenda and agreed on it, therefore, which was the idea of BiH. We say, we all say that legislative activity is a stalemate, but it was, but it's the result of a government shift, of policy making, we expect it to be now in expansion, so let's talk, let's encourage them, let's tell them -- that's what you did well, if this is what we expected from you more, now push in that direction. Well, I guess that's the interest of all of us. I, Mr. Arnaut, will not lead the controversy with you, I have no real intention, be your opposition as long as you want and as long as you want, I invite you only to be correct to this country and to all of us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8328	Thank you. Replica Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8329	So, unlike this approach that was announced today by a new, alleged reform president of the SDA Club, Mr Sarajlić, which is that in the future legal acts proposed here in Parliament will be determined on the basis of the name and last name of the promoter, so unlike that, we in the SDP Club will continue our approach, and he will read the content of the proposed legal acts and, regardless of who of the 42 MPs proposed something, if this is in favour of more social justice in the state, more states, more democracy and more European 53 integrations, will be supported, so that Sarajlić as the author of this new vision of Parliament's work. In that sense, regardless of certain objections and in the SDP Club in this proposed bill, I think that today it should be supported and that it should be congratulated to fellow Arnaut that he has had the strength and will to insist on resolving one of these issues, not only today but in recent months. And when it comes to the BiH Council of Ministers, I have really not criticised the Council of Ministers too much, here is almost a year since the election, we are all waiting for the Council of Ministers to show the results, but here to glorify the work of this Council of Ministers is simply not justified. Here is anyone from the Council of Ministers, not from us from the MPs, to say how many laws or other legal acts they have sent here to Parliament. It would be even worse to ask a question, to make a parallel even with the previous Council of Ministers, and to see what the company is like in the first 10, 11 months. It would be good, therefore, if we could all approach it a little more realisticly and try not to really celebrate this Council of Ministers when there is no basis for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8330	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8331	Thank you very much. Here's the need to, after this canonada that should present the results of the Council of Ministers, say a few words at least when we talk about correctness, I would understand that Mr. Džaferović said that these merits he's talking about are not just on the side of the Council of Ministers, there were both serious and large engagements of entity governments, let's say the Government of the RS. So it was correct to say that only the 11th version of the agenda was adopted, so the Council of Ministers did not implement it alone and the RS government was working very seriously on the plan. Further activities, here we will see what is in the power of the Council of Ministers, we will see what is in the jurisdiction and how much is in the jurisdiction, when we get an action plan, what does it mean and what is the obligation of entity governments. So it is illusory to expect opposition MPs to applaud the Council of Ministers, especially when there is still no particular reason to do so. Even if we were to rule out this possibility of being quite objective, but it's not envisaged under anything, for nothing the MPs who are from the opposition should applaud the Valdi, but in the future when you speak of a government that is the largest number, here, the people you support is from your break to be correct to say that there are others who have worked on that plan. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8332	Thank you. I must warn you all about the subject of this debate, it is not the subject of the Council of Ministers' work, so there will probably be a report on the work of the Council of Ministers and please let us get back to the topic. Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 54 So I answered, as my colleague Džaferović said, the truth works and the fact works for some here to say. By the way, it's an obvious intensity for you, Mr. Džaferović, from the College to sort of shut up the opposition here and call the opposition to tell what the position likes to hear here. When I told the truth for the sake of and the fact that you have to know, and you know it very well, that in the previous term when you and your party were opposition, you were then a remethyling factor in this Parliament even for things that you shouldn't have been a remethyling factor, for example for the adoption of the Budget of BiH, I can't remember now, did '12. Or '13. For years, you disputed the adoption of this Budget, although it was quite realistic and objective to adopt this Budget at that time, although it was realistic for it to decrease because there was a major economic crisis and we were all aware of the situation we were in. You want us here today, to teach us a lesson on correctness, and you're not even quite right in showing and addressing the MPs and you want to exaggerate things for the current Council of Ministers' convocation just because there's a bunch of ministers out there from your party. And you forget that you are not actually going to say and you are calling us to reality and objectivity, that a lot of what the predecessors said before this Council of Ministers' call, and today you point to, for example, the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign and Deblocking, I don't know, exporting products of animal origin, so we all know that Croatia has challenged that milk exports from BiH, the European Commission has rejected that complaint and the matter has been resolved. Which is now a concrete contribution from this ministry, I'm not saying they didn't work, but their work wasn't crucial. So, don't exaggerate things and don't expect, as the proposed Code here and some other acts, which we have on the agenda today, that the opposition is disciplined and forbidden to say what is to be said and what is, are actually expected from the opposition to say in this Parliament. Because you remember very well, you from the U.S.A., when you were opposition to how you acted, even with your work and procedure, some things were blocked here, so they didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8334	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8335	Like they were supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8336	Mr. Arnaut, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8337	Business intervention, uh, Mr. Bosić, since you said you needed to direct the debate on the subject, so this is the way Article 76 of Section 2. - A businessman can ask for a word to correct in his opinion, so in his opinion you can't get into it at all, a false statement that may be the cause of the misunderstanding or that requires an explanation. So whoever reports from the MPs here to correct the wrong allegations, Mr. Džaferović, and that the Council of Ministers is doing well cannot be a more wrong allegation, I don't think you can really limit this one, or direct the debate. Therefore, according to Article 76(2), MPs have the right to correct those false allegations by Mr Džaferović, regardless of what he would like the opposition to follow a position like that in some systems and today still in some systems, e.g. in the North Korean case. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8338	Let me just point out that we've been talking about the draft bill on salaries and fees that you've proposed here for the last 20 minutes about the work of the Council of Ministers, therefore it's not a topic. Replica Mr. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8339	Yes, I wanted to fill you in, Mr. Vice-President, and that, I'm sorry he's not the chairman here, we're discussing the Law in the second reading today, and I think we're essentially having a debate on the principles of the Law that we've been through on the past, so we're considering this law. In that sense, I just wanted to say, I'm not going to discuss the law, I think this law is much more logical than the Council of Ministers suggested the previous law on changes in salaries. If the readiness for the previous law is shown, that we are ready to abolish or cut costs, travel costs for employees in BiH institutions, not the willingness to give up enormous privileges, not only in this Parliamentary Assembly, but also in the Council of Ministers, that would be one indifference that would not be a very good message to the public in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8340	Thank you. Congratulations, Mr. Lovrinović, you've finally got your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8341	Thank you very much. So, I would basically join what Mr. Novaković was saying, I would really like the proposal to come, as we have already spoken several sessions, from the Council of Ministers of a thorough proposal to amend and supplement this Law. This one, but often this kind of debate leads to it as if we're representatives of boards and boards of directors, and we know it's nobody, so the public gets and gets the insight that it actually applies to us, somehow goes in the ugly direction, me, at least it seems to me. But I would remind only one thing, that, therefore, the Directorate for European Integration did not show itself on this proposal by Mr Arnaut, because she said that the analysis of secondary sources of EU law found that the matter governed by the bill was not regulated by the law by legally binding EU acts. So, so much for what it is, what it is, how it's solved where we want to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8342	Thank you. Discussion, Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8343	I thank the chairman. Well, I really think that we need a system solution and I totally agree with colleagues who say that a system solution is necessary and a new Law on Salaries and Refunds, 56 But here we don't have it, and I don't know how long to wait, until we wait for the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Majkić the Ministry of Finance should wait. As many, I had criticism of my Minister Šarović, why he did not send a certain earlier law, so he told me – waiting for the Ministry of Finance's position, which broke the deadline. I will remind you of one parliamentary question that I asked in March and received an answer to the boards of directors of 1,500, 2,000 receiving marks, three, three and a half, to get some people working in institutions at an annual level of 30,000 marks. And thanks to this amendment that fellow Arnaut says isn't SDS, so perhaps one word has been changed at the request of the SBB, which is to add cantons. And the bottom line is that this amendment completely amended the first Bill proposed by the Club of the SBB, which only remained a third member of that Act, which says - that the Law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger". The essence of this amendment is that it also limits these high incomes on boards and supervisory boards, so that anyone who wants to work on the board of directors and supervisory boards can do so, it is not disputed, but if he receives a salary from any budget that that fee cannot exceed 475 KM, how much is the basis for the payment. Maybe it's a little bit, because they're used to receiving 1,500, two, three thousand marks, but I'll remind you it's a lot more than an average pension in this country. And I think that, this is a chance if we adopt this law, and I hope that our colleagues in the House of Peoples will do so at the source, that even while the Council of Ministers is working on the draft budget, preparing for next year, here are the 4 million that we can direct, our country has not yet recovered from the flood, this year it has been hit and dried, we can direct it to some more useful and more concrete projects instead of having party listeners, friends, relatives so well taken care of. I don't know if it's even legal for anyone who receives a salary from the BiH institution on an annual basis to receive much more than their salary in the name of compensation. I think we should question that, too, but it's the Ministry of Finance's job, because these people work at the Ministry of Finance. And I don't know how anyone can do it at all, my colleague Novaković said – and what if it's not in his job description, so he won't. Well, no one's forcing him to be in the task force, and he wants 1,000 marks. I don't see who in this country would have separated one Saturday and worked after hours for an average pension. So nothing here is under the sea, we need to introduce a system, we need to introduce cost rationalization, and besides, we all promised it, and I don't know why some of it hurts so much if it's going to be a cost rationalization. And there are plenty more places to rationalise the costs, but I hope so, and I pray, I am taking advantage of the opportunity here as chairman of the Council of Ministers, to use his influence on the Ministry of Finance to finally get one system law in this House, if possible, by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8344	Thank you. Replica, MP Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8345	So what you need to put focus on is exactly the amendment you're talking about. Now the amendment says that members of the Management Board, supervisory and other working bodies employed in institutions financed from the BiH institutions, the Federation, the RS and Brcko District, the canton district, excluding higher education institutions, do not have the right to work in such bodies as they do during working hours. 57 Who is this cop who will sit back and watch what part of his work hours is? What's the total effect of the law if you need a cop to check it out? Second, who's all covered here? The council of ministers said the adoption of the law of a comprehensive solution implies changes to the three laws. The colleagues who were in the previous term will only suggest that we have had a whole range of parliamentary proposals to cut wages as a policy, happiness, so in the House of Nations they see it differently, and finally more thanks to the House of Peoples we will come to a full solution, so we will get exactly where everything and everything and fees and wages are reduced. So, by adopting this law, we won't get anything, everyone will show in future that they're doing it out of business. And how will it be determined? Not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8346	Thank you. poslanik Kožul. _________(?) /didn't turn on the nitrophone/ And there's a replica, the replica of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8348	Ms. Majkić wants this amendment to save that she will not, Zoran Tegeltija will no longer receive 2,200 marks for work past working hours but will receive 475. I don't know which finance minister, how much he receives BiH, for working on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, about 2.5 thousand marks, will not have 2.5 thousand marks but 475... savings of 2,100 marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8349	Thank you. Replica Magazinović
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8350	I thank the chairman. Individual opinion on whether this Law will result in what the Proposer is thinking is important for this debate and not wanting to interrupt fellows Majkić and Pandurević in the exchange of views, is not only to say that the Law is done in good faith, but I am not sure that through the proposed solutions it will achieve an effect of saving because this member of the Law that says – that the employees of institutions do not have the right to compensation for working on administrative, supervisory committees, working bodies, which perform during working hours will act by moving the meeting from 11 to 17 hours. And those sessions that were during working hours will be at 5:00 and the financial effect of this law I don't think it's going to be the way the Proposer thinks it will be. My colleagues at the club said, colleague Arnaut, that we will support this, so I'm saying this in good faith because I'm not an opponent of the law, I'm just having a big dilemma that the effect will be what you've put into account. 58 And just, I'm going to give up the debate, I'm just saying two more sentences about the effect, I don't know if you know it, but there's a software coming into BiH's technical assistance program, so we got it, which makes it possible to combine individual receipts of civil servants by their home number. So, a civil servant wherever he has any means that he receives beyond pay, list and by home number, it doesn't matter at what level of government. You can't open "Official Journals" to not spin 10 of those same names that are always and always named as boards of directors, working bodies and the like. On the other hand, there's no way you can get information that's their monthly income. You know what's wrong with this software? It's not working. You know who blocked it? Well, it's those people who hide their monthly incomes. And I think it would be good, fellow Arnaut, here we can and together, I was going to ask that question today, but this Protocol in Brussels was more important to me, to investigate why this software doesn't work that at any time we can see how many representatives, about the excuse, the civil servant and the representative, according to his home number, have monthly receipts. And then they would be, it would be easier to assess and this financial effect that you think will be great, I don't think it will be great but I will support your law. Here I am giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8351	Thank you. Replica, MP Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know what, so those who are appointed to these boards of directors and supervisors, there's some ethics, some morality, if they're gonna lie, so we can sit down as much as we want, but my people, so it's time for things to change. If they're going to lie, cheat, regardless of how I know that appointing the board of directors and supervisors is not a matter of quality, but of loyalty and reward for something, this is not where people who know and can help this country are not wanted. So Valda will come into a situation where, in these bodies, and in other supervisory or coordinating bodies, people who can choose in a decent way to meet the function and meet the needs of both this country and this people for quality work. And even if they lie, so please, we'll take care of it and about it, of course I don't think the world is fair by definition everyone tries to make some weaknesses in the law in any way or in some way take advantage of it. But I don't think there should be a major argument here that someone's gonna move the session for after hours, so please excuse us, we're sitting from 10:00 to 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., so how we're doing with that, that wage that day, what's going on here? So let me show both understanding and good will to adopt a document like this so that we can clearly show our attitude toward what people get as a privilege of enormous compensation and that it is not an essential need for work, but that it is a question of some other things. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8353	Thank you very much. Replica jasmin Emrić, MP. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8354	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers warmly welcome, as I promise at today's session for the first time. As I also supported the amendment proposed by my colleague Pandurević as a member of the Finance and Gudget Commission, I would like to stress that at the meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, we have signed an amendment proposed by my colleague Pandurevic, which has several times highlighted what is important for this debate and for getting to know the same one, which is to limit the amount of monthly compensation for working on boards, supervisory and other working bodies. A kolegica, Pandurević, also stressed that this is the level of the base for calculating salaries employed by BiH institutions, which has not been a practice so far. And secondly, the total annual compensation to a member of the Management Board, the Supervisory Authority and other working bodies may be up to a maximum of 12 months of fees set out in the position of the 4th member and shall not be exceeded by participation in the work of several boards, supervisory or other working bodies. So, what has been a practice so far to obtain compensation for working on several boards of directors, the working bodies of this amendment will be abolished and these are the obvious savings achieved by this amendment. And of course one other, we can say, the indirect effect this amendment should have is to determine responsibility in the work of the boards of directors, supervisors and other working bodies and to introduce order. Because there are systems that can be controlled when a session of the Supervisory Board, the Management Board or another working body is scheduled and can be easily confirmed and implemented in some way
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8355	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8356	check
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8357	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8358	When those sessions were held, and I'm guessing no executive will allow himself to pay a fee contrary to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8359	Thank you very much. Replica Nikola Lovrinović. After this replica we give a break by 2:30, here is the commitment of the members of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8360	That means I'm fast. So, it wasn't a classic replica of Mr. Đonlagić, so if it is a fundamental, fundamental reason for his colleague Arnaut to raise this issue and the question of work, or taking money from those who shouldn't do it at the same time, or at the same time, even though you were alluding to it, so I guess it will be moral and will not need the supervisor that Mrs. Majkić spoke of. Well, if they were moral, that regulations were respected, so it shouldn't have happened in 60 working hours, so it shouldn't have been a reason at all, so it can't happen at work to keep the supervisory boards and then there wouldn't be a need for this law. So, I doubt that without a supervisor, what Mrs. Majkić was saying, that we're going to do these effects, maybe something about this restriction, but we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8361	Thank you very much. Break by 2:30. We're continuing the debate. Representative Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8363	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I've first called, so I'm going to say hello to you first. Since around this law, I'd say at first sight or perhaps on the surface, there's nothing to give. It meets two basic criteria, it saves, it's rational and it's fair and fair because it doesn't allow someone to work two jobs at the same time and charge for it. However, I think that at first sight and such at first sight or superficial access to the laws that we bring, everyone outside this building has the right, but not us MPs here. The basic text of the Law proposed by fellow Arnaut was all agreed on, including the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance in its Opinion was discriminatory. He has discriminated against one group of people, in fact all of us who are in any way employed in BiH institutions. The amendments which are now an integral part of the text of this Law have extended this discrimination somewhat to mitigate it, so that all those who are at any budget, although to the level of the municipalities, are now included in this Law, to the level of the county, excluding municipalities, excluding higher education institutions. Now there is a logical question and this question of logic as science – is there greater discrimination when you discriminate against N people or 5 times N people? Because outside the context of this Law, all civil servants from the municipalities are left, other people from public institutions, public enterprises, higher education institutions. A whole big group of people who aren't on the budget but are on some kind of budget. So it will hypothetically happen that a university professor, someone from BH Telecom, someone from the municipality of Novi Grad and two sad civil servants from these institutions who are discriminated against by this Law will sit on our boards. So these two godmits will beg that the board of directors meet at 8:00 a.m., but these three will insist, as will the director of an institution whose board of directors and supervisors, that the meeting be at 10-11 p.m., when logical and normal. I cite in this way, to show that the issue of savings is also when it counts on the flat and linear, very problematic, and the question of the functions of the boards of directors and supervisory committees and the functioning of this Law. 61 What I have repeatedly repeated, without prejudice to the need to regulate this matter, in exactly this way or similar way, without prejudice to the good intentions of the proposings and the need for a more rational availability of public budget money in this segment. Because we're all... in this House and I, aware that there were numbers out of logic, even out of morality. But what are we going to get by law and law? Can we solve this matter that is complex with one article of the Law? Inside, if nothing else, at least within these amendments and additions of the Law should have been taxed and counted more precisely as far as this Law applies. What exactly are bodies and boards of directors and supervisors? Is it possible that these are our independent bodies that we choose, an independent committee, an independent committee that monitors prison conditions, several of these independent bodies, a series of boards of boards and all the working bodies and what kind of working bodies. These are very different bodies and their work deserves different values. This is one of the comments of the review, to return to this famous one, that the work done by committees, boards of directors, independent bodies and all other things should be paid on the basis of measurable criteria. Is the second paragraph of this Act that will really save the money directly from 475 marks linearly into all these criteria and whether it can meet these criteria and how it will affect the work of administrative and supervisory committees, various independent bodies
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8364	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8365	to ignore all these, commissions ad hoc ours which are the same subject of this law. I mean bad. After all, what is important to say, not only must we change the laws as they say in the text of this Law, in order for this Law to be variable, but also a series of laws that regulates a lot of things. Thank you. I apologize for the length.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8366	Thank you very much. Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8367	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, one of the amendment's proposings, to say a few words about this legal matter, although the essence of the amendment, or the essence of the law adopted by the Commission, is Mrs Pandurević. I may have had a dilemma at one point whether to go to a partial solution, but the Council of Ministers' proposal with a legal procedure under the Law on Salaries and Restitutions proposed under the urgent procedure further motivated me to do this story anyway. Because it obviously can't be solved essentially or it doesn't want to be solved essentially, and it's started by this partial story of solving certain segments. For that reason perhaps someone of a better quality, let me say deepening in these laws, giving amendments, simply the need to regulate this matter. The Council of Ministers, from the House of Representatives on several occasions, not only this, but the previous Council of Ministers was obliged to resolve this matter essentially, comprehensively, but we never had a positive outcome of such a request by the Council of Ministers. And then the extra activity of the House of Nations in which it warns the House of Representatives not to work, that 62 we withdraw the legal solution, because they also have a request that within 90 days the Council of Ministers regulate this matter comprehensively, further inspired me to address this problem because, either they do not follow our work or they do not want to follow our work or do not want to know for which reasons they have decided to write such a letter. I think we need to regulate this matter, so if this is a way to put pressure on the Council of Ministers to deliver us a comprehensive legislative project in the coming period, then let this go into this story and that was kind of my thinking. However, the essence of that and here I noticed here through discussions, which fellow MPs may not have understood, especially in this was explicitly Mr Magazinović, that we will not make savings. So Article 2 of this legal solution speaks of the maximum wage that can be obtained for work, regardless of whether it is in working time, after working hours, etc. So in working time certain members who are employed in institutions and are financed from the budget of the state, entities, cantons, cannot receive compensation. I can get that job if they do it after hours, but not in the amount of money they could get so far. And here's Mrs. Pandurević talking about it, I wouldn't say it again. Now we have some maximum and he's the basis for calculating the salary and he's 475 marks, and then if there are several boards of directors, we also have a certain restriction that it's 12 such bases, that they can't duplicate those funds, etc. So that disproportion that existed is eliminated. I think it's good to regulate this matter in this way, make some savings, because the essential thing, when we go into this story, is savings. And if, along the way, we're going to motivate the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance, to deliver a comprehensive proposal in the procedure that will solve all the concerns of the current Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions, then this is another positive argument in this story. Someone's saying, you won't be able to work later, you'll need a cop to regulate it, etc. So we have the minutes, we have the time of the beginning of the session, the end of the session, I think this is the BiH Parliament, that there are serious people sitting here, and that they never, or that they are serious people... state institutions and that they will never reach for fraud, and that fraud each has a short period of time. Five minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8368	Thank you. A representative, Zaim Backović, called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8369	Thank you, Madam Chairman. There is no need to waste words about the inevitable changes to the Law of Salaries. About the inevitability of interventions, you also don't need to waste words anymore, and without the dilemma is that this is what you should be going for. And now it's quite clear why rules have been changed when it comes to conflict of interest. Now it's quite clear why we don't have a conflict of interest. The Kadija judgeth thee, and the incense sueth thee, and the incense doth thee all things: and the incense keep thee, and the incense, and the incense, and the incense, and all things in order. Imagine what it's like when someone who's in charge of something is on the board of directors of what he's in charge of. And through the reports we are discussing the report given to the institution and on the board of directors, it is one who works all the time with that institution and whose primary function is to work with that institution, to control it, to direct it in such a order. And then he's still in management or as we call it, the board of directors. But that's not so bad either. It's a terrible thing that we 63 are the only state that in the institutions that it forms, agencies, directorates, funds and so on, it has supervisory committees besides the authorities, these are the Resort Ministries. They're not companies, they're not stock companies, they're not stock companies, they're institutions that are paid out of BiH citizens' pockets. Oh, that's my colleague who used to talk, he's absolutely right. This function of supervisory, in fact, is made and administered, but as they call them, only as a flow boiler to reward those who at some point for those in political position, will be rewarded for obedience and for nothing more and for nothing else. The truth is that the praises of the municipalities and it is necessary to do so, in fact, need to make complete changes in the description of the work of these agencies, the directorates, I no longer know what, because their resolution ministers are responsible, the resolution ministries. Well, this thing in work, out of work, that manipulation is undivided that it's going to happen. So I should suggest that another one, with this going one conclusion, can you hear me, Damir? I suggest that, with what you've given, you go with one conclusion, and that's that within 30 days, all the resolution ministries bring instructions, instructions that will make those who are and if they are administrative, supervisory, and I don't know what from the ministry, hold meetings in business time, not outside of working hours. That if they are external members, then it is that they are in accordance with their engagement, because I am keenly interested if they are as external as we now have examples from the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia and the Parliament of the Federation, where parliamentarians, under the former Law on conflict of interest, have greater incomes as members of the Supervisory Boards, say the Directorate for indirect taxation, rather than higher incomes, rather than as parliamentarians. parlamentarac and other member of the Supervisory Board of the Direct Taxation Board. Something's wrong, something's wrong. So, Damir, you'd need one such conclusion to formulate yourself, you would have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8370	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8371	And those who are, here I am, just one sentence. And those who are external, I am keenly interested to know if they are employed, how they are employed, whether they are paid, and whether they are compensated by their company, because in business time they left their jobs and are paid for the supervisory board that is held in half a day. I will now specify the dozen reports we have received recently, so a report on television – a held session of the Supervisory Board, here is an example of Elektrotropenos. How much are they paid? The sitting started at 10:00, finished at 2:00. As they got paid, they got paid in companies and so on. So there's a lot of dilemma here and I'll support it, but it won't solve the problem, this won't solve the problem. This problem is solved by a rigorous cut, or abolishing where they are not needed, because they have no effect. And the other thing is the exact direction of how and in what way
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8372	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8373	They're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8374	Thank you very much. 64 Representative, Miras Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8375	I thank the chairman. We've actually heard a lot of things here, a lot of statements and a lot of comments. I don't think there should be any dilemma about this law. So, savings are unquestionable. According to our calculations, it's somewhere between four minimum four and six million tops. So that's enough reason to support this law. In fact, the Finance and Budget Committee, in two, I am not sure or three times, asked the Council of Ministers for an opinion, set certain deadlines. But we didn't get any material, they didn't come forward. Even at one of the meetings of the Commission, we also had a report that the Council of Ministers had scattered this on 30th of this year. However, I found this material, to be honest, on the Council of Ministers' page, nowhere else. So we're getting into a situation where something has to be solved. If this were to be dealt with, it is the very fact that certain civil servants, serquetaries, etc. etc. Not to mention, they have monthly receipts, as the Honorable representative puts it, up to 3,000 marks. I'll say there are aces among them, that there are 6,000, so 6,000 and 7,500 marks, respectively, that have monthly incomes. Now imagine what it's like for these people, or for the citizens of this country when they see someone receiving 7,500 just a fee, that they don't care when they're paid to go to an ATM to see if they're getting paid or not. So this, in my opinion at all, in our view, and I see for most of the MPs, there's no doubt that we should support it. What are the effects of the boards of directors, or supervisory committees, is now a special story. The measurement of their impact is indeed almost impossible, but we see that almost all public enterprises, all institutions in which exactly supervisory and boards are located, are almost lost. Very little, I think of the fingers of one hand that we can list public institutions that do well and positively. I don't know what the effect of these boards of directors is. There are some institutions in this area that are not the subject of this, but let's say the agencies that are, that's a special story and we'll certainly discuss it in the future. Until we have reports, i.e. impact audits, any boards, public enterprises, agencies and ministries themselves. We adopted the budget and we see the implementation, or implementation of the budget in 90%, 95% and the impact review says that there is no effect, i.e. that the realization is 5.6 or 10%. When we put an impact review parallel and a financial effect, that is, realising the budget, we see what we get, starting with the agencies and beyond. We'll take the European Integration Agency or the Public Administration Agency, we'll see that they spent over 90% of their budgets, or the implementation of the budget. And we see where the public administration is, no one's blind. So we see exactly where, or where European integration is. We can see we're not getting anywhere, but we're paying our dues all the time. So it's quite enough for someone to be appointed, to do and come to the job, and the effect, or effect, of the funds invested, as well as the results, is nowhere to be found. So, in my opinion, there's no doubt about whether there are any effects, financial effects around this law, and without a dilemma, I think that there's a great deal of persuasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8376	Thank you very much. Replica, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8377	Well, I was actually trying to distract my attention in this way, on one question, because in public often times when they're like this, so just remember white bread. That calculation that the SBB colleagues were doing, so he was talking about about 9 million when we got a report from the Council of Ministers, in a few years it was a little over 10% of what they calculated to be saved. So I just have an observation that you two to five million, that sounds nice in public like this, but I'm not sure how good that calculation is, as well as in the case of white bread. So, all of this other stuff is okay. You have the right to think so it will be, but these calculations sometimes just sound nice in public like this, and if they're exactly like that, are they going to give that result, I'm almost not sure at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8378	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8379	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The most I wanted to look back at, I think that, if there was an observation today, the most important thing was that the Council of Ministers had to submit a comprehensive proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. It's very simple. We keep pre-election promises here. We promised before the elections that if we had the capacity to form government at the state level, it would be one of the first things we'd do. And if we are opposition, we will act in a way consistent with the capacity of the opposition, which is through a partial solution. What pleases me is the fact that we've made a huge progress here in understanding these issues. When the Club of the SBB in January, less than a month after the House was established, proposed the Law on the Elimination of White Bread, one of our pre-election promises, many in these benches then said it was politics. But here today, I think everyone congratulated us on our good intentions. So we are making progress in understanding this really important issue for BiH, for BiH citizens. I am very pleased that the awareness of this issue is progressing with our colleagues. And with that in mind, I want to be clear again now, even though we were clearer last time. When the abolition of white bread was adopted at the Predator's House, that day we said that we would give the Council of Ministers two months to deliver a comprehensive solution to the amendments and addition of the Law on Salaries and Refunds to BiH institutions, and that we would deliver new austerity measures at the end of that deadline. And that's what we did, it was adopted in March, we're the new measures we're discussing now, delivered in May. And today, to the Council of Ministers, we say the same thing, we're giving you two more months, and now we're this, more broadly than the House of Nations. We give you a little more time, we give you two more months, to submit comprehensive changes and additions to the Law on Salary and Refunds in BiH institutions, and at the end of that deadline, we will deliver here a proposal for new austerity measures. We have our deadlines and pre-election promises, unlike the current Council of Ministers' call, we respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8380	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8381	Dear colleague, don't just make sure it's just you, because without those who are here and were willing to support it, you could never. And, since you've been one step ahead, you've done it faster, but we've been looking for it, too. We asked that everything that didn't have any healthy logic be cut off. Among other things, that white bread. You have now heard what I have said, I have suggested to you, since you are the Proposer, I could conclude, that you do, because it will not be applicable unless the Council of Ministers responds and makes a guide, unless the amendments to the law are made, and if they do not go into changes in the organisational sense, the way in which these directors function, agencies, foundations, funds. It's endless. I'm amazed, every day something like I read, something like I want to write, and they just spring up new and new and new, and there's so many. Real profit for the state, you know what it says, understood, equal minus, because they're just cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8382	Thank you very much. Replica, Salko Sokolović. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, that when it comes to replicas, you should say who they refer to, and when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, you should also adhere to a specific article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8383	Thank you, Chairman. Replication is for Mr. Arnaut and Lovrinović. It's short notice. I wanted to warn Mr. Arnaut in my first turn, that from his proposal, all he had left was the title. We have changed everything else together, especially on the Commission, without reducing its contribution to the initiation of this proposal on the one hand. On the other hand, Mr. Lovrinović, you suspect savings. Here's just one little example. Otherwise here's some fee in the Fiscal Council, for working at the Fiscal Council 2,500 times 6, evoking 6 members, that's 15,000, times a year, that's 180,000 times 4 years of mandate, that's 720.00 marks. Therefore, if when the law is adopted, respected and done, there will be savings here, we do not need to worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8384	Thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more reports for debates or replicas. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to the sixth agenda. 67 Ad.6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15, of 02.07.2015. (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 16th session of the House on 27.08.2015. The relevant Constitutional Commission submitted a report on 15/09/2015. There were no amendments to the draft law. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Switching to point 7. Ad.7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrežalica, Law No: 01-02-11/15, of 30.07.2015. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8387	Thank you very much. I thought that the day it seemed to me in March of the month, when we finished with Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's proposal to the Sports Act, that we had put an end to it. I didn't know we were going to have the same law, though embellished for a little human rights, a little law on gender equality, and so, other things that are being set there, that we're going to get it almost in the same text. And I really don't think it's right for us to use ourselves that way in proposing laws. This team before the young proposing, it takes many years to spend here and it's not a good way, that the laws that have once or more times received no support in this House, that in some different form just a little hidden and scattered other things, come to a new debate. Why is it really, what's the main problem with that? So we know it's the law, that it's the sport of entity jurisdiction. And what is the aim of the promoter, in addition to this declared fight for human rights, and I don't know what else to do, to erase all those things that are within the entity's jurisdiction, and thus to transfer the Sport Act to BiH level. I must remind you, I must remind you, that the RS has adopted a strategy on the development of sport, that it has a law on sport, that it has a law on the prevention of violence at sports events and a whole series of regulations that regulate this area, and in no way does it come to mind that we are transposing this power by law at BiH level. That's what we said last time it was Denis Bećirović's law here. 68 Secondly, in Article 5, instead of obtaining the consent of entities and Brcko District, to the Strategy and the Development Program, introduce opinions, such as obtaining opinions from entities and normally that opinion does not oblige you by anything, so it is not worth it at all, so that is another reason. The third reason in Article 22(3) is deleted as a whole and it is deleted that BiH's sports alliances are established in accordance with this Law and the Law on Associations and Foundations, that the decisions of the entity sports alliances on voluntary association, and in the case of disputes between entity sports alliances, the decision is made by the Council of Ministers. That's how it works. These are clear meanings of that intention that the writer meant it to say. And in the context of this, the system of conditions that needs to be met for the organisation of the competition itself, you take away entities and transfer to the state level, so that the RS, which these days prepares for the great international organisation of the Canjar tennis tournaments, could not, without the relevant Alliance of BiH, organise such a thing. Now, that's not possible, it's RS jurisdiction, not BiH. Article 11 of the Sports Sector, budget proposals are being introduced, and now this is a little bit of dust and foam again, the sector is being introduced, i.e. gender-responsible budgeting. Nowhere in the budget, where we are fortunate to get to that stage, to introduce gender-sensitive budgeting. We didn't do it anywhere, but here's a suggestion it might be in sports, but we know for what reason. Member of the 12th Public Interest Fund, this is no longer a public interest, therefore, entity, you propose to talk about public needs in sport at the state level. And, in this sense, take away all the competencies of entities, such as the affirmation of sports, the special needs of sports for children, young, students, planning, construction of sports facilities, imagine and it is transmitted, care for top athletes. No more rights, no more rights for RS to take care of its athletes, that should take care of BiH, etc. etc. Here I am at the end of time, unfortunately these laws, which for the third time seem to be repeated only by different promoters, this time I won't accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8388	The Chairman of the House has his word. Correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8389	Thank you very much. Here's the respect, I'll just look back on the presentation of the respected representative Dušanka Majkić. I fully support all this debate that applied to this bill, but I only volunteered to correct the wrong allegations. It's probably low, since a colleague referred to whose jurisdiction it is, when it comes to sports. Power on sports is entity in the RS, when it comes to the Federation, jurisdiction on sports is at the county level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8390	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, before I make a brief comment, i.e. very briefly asked, I would like to say that I have been in basketball sport for over 50 years, that I was the president of the BiH Commission for Reconstruction of Basketball Sports, where we signed all the participants in this reconstruction process, we signed the functioning of the Basketball Alliance in the entire BiH area. I've been in the management of European basketball for 19 years, I've been in the management of world basketball for 12 years, but now I'm interested in something, not by any law, and nobody here is asking that question, who's funding the teams, who? It is not a transfer of competence, the national team is played by players from the RS, from the Federation, by players who went from RS to other countries and from the Federation to other countries, so they play in the BiH team. I'm not just talking about other sports alliances, although the situation is very similar. And it is, in order for us to register, we would register as the Citizens' Association at the federal level first, and then in the agreement that we made with the National Federation of the Republic of Slovenia, we registered as the State Alliance. As the State Alliance, we have the right to apply to the means that it shares, in a certain way, divides grants or projects, call it whatever you want, the Council of Ministers. I want to hear it here, do the gentlemen sitting here think BiH doesn't need representations. Or if we have a team, who's going to take care of these teams to provide them with the minimum necessary conditions to make it work. How's that? What are we talking about here? So we're building BiH, it's not about the transfer of jurisdiction. If anyone can build this mechanism and does not think about it in a strict political framework, then please let us at least talk about state re-recessions, so look at Serbia's state re-recessions, look at Croatia what the national teams are doing. From BiH, athletes run away with their heads regardless. With our preparations, Ognjen Kuzmić, who plays in the first five Serbias, left. Two players have gone to Slovenia, Begić and Omić who play in five Slovenias, with their heads, regardless of their perspective. A Bojan Bogdanović from Mostar went to Zagreb, a man playing in the NBA, is a BiH player. We've got 100 of those players. So why do you think a city has escaped, a city has left BiH? Because there is no perspective here, not just in sports, but because of this rigid relationship between politics and politicians who do not show good will to at least solve some things, about anything to agree on. From '93 to 2000, I asked for funds for the BiH team. I had understanding back then, and from the RS, now I don't have that understanding. I don't have that understanding, I'm not saying what the initial positions were when we reconstructed the BiH Basketball Alliance, it doesn't matter. It can complicate things. But I think we did something. Don't, all the more sports laws, we've got less funding for state teams. Clubs, that's the local community's concern.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8392	Please, you've reached out to me about the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8393	Well, here, I don't know any different. I have to say that what we're talking about here right now is not what's going to solve the question of sports or the proposal or the discussion. Here, thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8394	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas. Representative Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8395	Thank you very much. I'm briefly replicating Mrs. Majkić. So, keeping in mind what the esteemed representative Đonlagić was talking about and this fact that, unfortunately or fortunately, we have not reached the codex. I only respond to some rhetorical value, Mrs. Majkić said a young proposal for the bill, criticising that there is not much change. If you allow me, then it is very evident that neither the distinguished representative Majkić, this time we could say, I have the right, given my own age, to say the old debater, so we could expect the contents that Mrs. Majkić said here, because they are always in line with what MP Đonlagić was talking about, nothing that is for the common good. We could have expected that, in any case, I'm reacting to that, if we were all MPs and MPs here and what would sound pessimistic, it wouldn't have been very nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8396	Thank you very much. Replica, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8397	Thank you. I thanked the chairman today, but behold, I thank you for giving me your word. The way of thinking presented by Mrs. Majkić shows the basis for the lack of understanding of the structure of sports and how sport works not only in one country, but in how sports in the country works and beyond its borders. A colleague who said he's been in sports for so many years, I thank him, given the circumstances, and I've been in sports since I was 11 years old. The first medal in my life I won as a Balkan champion at 1,500 feet in crosshairs, a representative of that country. And then 27 times I was a state champion in different categories with my team, the Sarajevo Bosnia team. And it wasn't Sofko Yugoslavia that financed me, it was Sofka City of Sarajevo. Divided competences, in Belgrade clubs from Belgrade, in Sarajevo, but when it goes structurally up, it is known who is funding. If I've been to the republican team, the republic. If I was in state, it was funded by the state. We also shared competences by name, last name, religious identity, where we determine where we will lose what one country recognises – by art and sport. And top artists and athletes, because of our relationship, they leave and then they come back and they say, "We recently had this, a colleague from basketball, comes to Sarajevo and says I'm a Bosnian soul, I'm a Bosanac." But you don't have any of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8398	Time. Can you just tell us at the end, for a stenogram, who you're replicating?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8399	Dušanki Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8400	Thank you very much. We have one business intervention that has priority over replicas. Here you go. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8401	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would, if I could just help direct the debate, this Article 75. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the legislator has the right and obligation to explain the proposal before the start of the debate. Maybe we should let Mrs. Gasal the Vražalica explain his proposal, so maybe it'll be easier to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8402	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8403	I have to, if I have to tell you who I'm replicating... it's hard because I'm replicating two ladies, so Mrs. Majkić and Mrs. Chairman, which is what you're limiting sport to cantons, or entities. With such an approach, we will not have athletes in BiH and we can have genius laws, because they will leave. Novak Đoković also left Serbia even though it is a stronger country, when it is on the contrary and certainly more isolated for sport than BiH, but in order to achieve a top score, he had to go to Minhen to the Tennis Academy and from there he made a big or top career. So I think if the athletes listen to us, I don't think this or this kind of exposure or distraction of sports is going to forgive us, because they're looking at this issue, this kind of legal act a lot different. I was disgusted by the fact that when I read in the paper that the BiH team in basketball, this young re-representation that went to the European Championship, had no money to pay for the hotel and threatened to return from the championship and were eventually European champions. I think we all need to think this through, and we need to see what it is, what we need to do to make this country have top-notch sports in every area. That would be the right approach, so we're not dealing with whose jurisdiction it is. Let it be the jurisdiction of those who want to produce top-notch results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8404	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8405	I really have to tell my colleagues that I don't restrict sports personally or SNSD, sport is located in the Dayton Peace Agreement where it belongs. And we are, even though it is the entity's exclusive jurisdiction, we have accepted to make and adopt a law that will treat and things that are related to performances at BiH level. And a member of the 51st existing Law makes it clear that the system, conditions and organisation of BiH-level sports competitions in BiH's sports alliances in line with the provisions of the applicable law and system, conditions and organisation of sports competitions at entity level, or canton level, I am sorry, I was not meant to, determined by the entity, or cantonal sports alliances. That's what the law says. And that's where they're cut off. And last time he was a colleague of Bećirović, we were also talking about it, so we don't limit it, the Law said that. Now, should someone be willing to accept that a BiH-level sports competition can be organised, should this now be done with such exhibitions as this, for the third time, to rule it all out. The existing law was passed only because there was so much strength and opportunity to bring it. There's no more. So he can either be like that or he's gone. And I'm asking you to have an understanding. So don't attribute anything to me, I don't have the power or the power to do that, I read the Law, I interpret it and I watch it. It would be logical if the motionor told us what he wanted... all of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8406	Thank you very much. Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8407	It's very short. If Đanan Musa and Njegoš Sikiraš had listened to parliamentarians here today, they would not play in the municipal league anywhere in BiH territory, let alone be European champions. Why am I saying that? At least we should agree on two things. First, this sport and their results, especially young people in this country should be 100% depolized. Certainly no influence of the authorities on their successes at any level, it hardly exists. Therefore, children should be allowed to be better than this present generation. The other thing I want to say is this bill. He commends the bill's proposal and I would like to encourage Commissioner Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil to endure on his proposal and invite other MPs to do their part of the job. To propose, to make the legislation in this country more helpful than it is. Because with a debate like this, we're really not gonna make it anywhere. And if I don't speak for these ground floor statements of a guy, that's what I'm saying now and for the sake of a colleague, a young debater, or as one young debater says today, etc. I personally don't prefer anything more than when someone says a young debater. I know one thing at a time, he certainly has no idea what he's talking about, he's gone from the field of arguments to the field of indirect discretion and I'm not interested in discretion here, but only argument. So I absolutely support this bill, he's in first reading today, we have the opportunity to process it, and I stress this thing – for sports in BiH for children in BiH of all nations
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8408	Time. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8409	And the people, it's important that sport is depolitical.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8410	Thank you very much. Second replica, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8411	Somewhere I feel like we're playing deaf phones here or not hearing each other at all or not wanting to hear from each other. We can sometimes ask ourselves one question, those who did and did it, that they didn't even know how they work, make and sign and say jurisdiction, there's no leaving this country with top athletes without state, point. No Olympics, no world championship, no European championship, no Balkan games, no, no, no, no, no. And we need to understand that this regional, entity, cantonal, that was there, that was it. Football, the Regional League of Sarajevo, the Regional League of Banja Luka, the Regional League of Bihac, the Regional League of Mostar, the regional and then three regions, and then, there was. You don't make up hot water. But this concentration of quality is in the country. And it's the state that has to take care of it. Those who did it like they did dozens of us here from school and beyond, divided jurisdiction, that's what those who absolutely didn't want to do good to this country, or they didn't know it, and now they see it. This now gives the real problems above all else and all, young people, to us no longer. We forget here that we are all determined by God and that we are traveling somewhere, and the question is the day when the one above will say, I am raising the ramp – you are moving to the other side. And to the young, we leave the cavity, the void, we leave it behind.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8412	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8413	We leave them a desolation of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8414	Who's the only person you've replicated?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8415	Dušanki Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8416	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8417	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 74 First of all, there are really some discussions here that are not clear to me. I replicate to all colleagues who question constitutional jurisdiction. So I wouldn't individually count it, but at first it's not really clear to me that someone bothers someone to call him a young colleague. I'm not so lucky someone can call me a young colleague, and believe me, I'd be very happy to. But, of course, I didn't answer for it. Please, the Law that was adopted in its own time was the result of a compromise between those who have jurisdiction in sports. And we got what we got. Is that good, it's not good, it's a thing we knew when we adopted. And those who voted in favour and those who voted against. What I don't understand today is that we're actually discussing sports, not the Law that lies ahead of us. And the remarks some of the colleagues have made here will not be resolved at all, adopted or not adopted by this law. And if we adopt it, nothing will be better for any BiH team, because it is not the subject of this law. That's not what this law does. I don't really understand what we're having a discussion about. If young athletes, says counterpart Bećirović, will not stay here, believe me, I have not been able to find here in the Law that this has something to do with this. It has to do with the Law of Sports, of course, but to those members who don't change this Law, but to those who aren't even proposed. Gentlemen, whose jurisdiction is defined by the Constitution. And defined how it changes. And no one is defending anyone, to sit together again at the levels that are competent in this process and negotiate other solutions. If we can find them or can't, of course none of us can speak for sure today. I'm asking you really not to be made out of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8418	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8419	Virtual category. It's not a virtual category, it's people's constitution in which it clearly writes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8420	Thank you very much. Replica, representative of Diana Zelenika. Here you go. 15:44:59--___15:44:59___
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8421	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone warmly. Just a short replica of Mrs. Majkić. First of all, I'm going to say that I'm in favour of depoliticalizing everything from justice, science, and even sports. However, I have volunteered as a member of the Committee for Gender Equality, because this is where birth-responsible budgeting has been touched. It's time to go a little bit with that, if it hasn't been applied so far, it doesn't have to mean we don't have to introduce some newspapers and improve in that sense. I'm not at the basketball club, but I've spent my whole life in handball, and today, not at such a big level, so I wanted to make one observation that maybe that budget is evenly scheduled so that we might have a female handball team of Bosnia and Herzegovina that I would like to watch because Mostar is the town of handball. Here, just a suggestion that I think that birth budgeting you mentioned doesn't matter, I consider it very important in that segment. Thank you very much. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8422	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8423	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Replica, Mr. Novaković, on the argument over the constitutional basis. I'll wait, sir...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8424	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8426	So, the replica of Mr. Novaković is found on constitutional grounds. Mr. Novaković, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I think he knows very well, or should at least know that the Constitutional Commission gave a positive opinion on the constitutionality of this Law. So we wouldn't be discussing it this way today, we'd be discussing the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion, if that were a negative opinion. However, we have a positive view of the Constitutional Commission so that I really don't see the point of this debate. Are you going to support the bill or are you not going to end up, uh, it's your right to vote, of course I'm not going to go into it, but I really don't think it stands to be opening constitutional issues that the Constitutional Commission has already settled this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8427	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, at first, or is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8428	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8429	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8430	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Ma, I think we went to the field of these responsibilities – entities, cantons, states, etc., this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act. So we have the law. And when you look at the content of this Act, please have here and a consolidated text of the applicable provisions and provisions that are provided for by amendments and additions and you will see that there is really not a single procedure in the jurisdiction of any other level. You here, as explained, 76 therefore have the harmonisation of the Law with European directives, with natively sensitive language, with some, and some technical improvements, as it is said, so here in the Law, which aims to have a better quality law. The provisions that need to be specifically analysed, so when it comes to this thing, which is being discussed all the time, are actually those provisions concerning the strategy..., etc. There is no change, let him find some change and take jurisdiction of any other level, and we get one more quality law. And I think this law should be supported here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8431	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8432	Well, since fellow Arnaut was speaking on a constitutional basis for this law, I must say that the Commission has supported the constitutional basis of this law for 5 votes in favour of, 3 votes against and without abstentions. The 3 votes against all members of the Constitutional Commission in the order of the Serb people. So, I'm a legal person, I'm not talking about it, it's the way the Commission decides, the Commission has given its view on it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But here, what I was saying was the continuity of what I was saying and the session of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8433	Thank you very much. Debate, representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8434	I thank the chairman. So, intent to propose, this is a law that exists at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is a proposal to amend and supplement the Sport Act. And it is very sad, I am a young proposing, this is my first time as a representative at the Parliamentary House that I noticed that some of the texts of the laws and proposals are repeated and that they are very discriminatory towards a particular population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are like Bosnia and Herzegovina signatories of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so Mrs. Majkić You, as someone in the third meeting here, could probably have been in... previous synergy to react and to say –..., someone who proposed this law could have looked at that in Bosnia and Herzegovina as disabled persons, that it was very discriminatory and that it should be applied to persons with disabilities. But you didn't do it, but here I am as a young proposing. Also, you as a representative at the House of Representatives... what I have responded to these members is the native sensitive language, gender-sensitive budgeting, that in all associations, the councils, the alliances, pay attention to the Law on Gender Equality, which is in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as to include that famous 40% famous quota for all executive functions in the respective councils. It was also my intention to include this gender-sensitive budgeting through the adoption of certain budgets, so I can see that my colleagues in past synergy have failed to pay any attention to it, or they probably weren't interested in it. Because it is important that they are here somewhere, and whether or not they are entitled to a gender-sensitive budgeting here when they are in the 77th Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but those who are in entities in some sports alliances are less important to them as it is to them. I ask the question – does the Republika Srpska Club have any sports alliances, can a canton participate in an international competition? Of course, he can't. You, or all those who will not support this today, will confirm to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that they absolutely do not care that one young person, one athlete or athlete will not have the opportunity to go anywhere to compete. So the question arises whether you are here for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or just to defend a certain group of people, or your constituents or founding SNSDs. The intention is also to support this Law and to give opportunity to all those who represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in the best light in the world, which are athletes, cultural artists, cultural workers and others. Because Bosnia and Herzegovina with such politicians will unfortunately never be shown in a positive sense, and that is the tragedy and fact of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8435	Thank you. Replica, Milisa Marković. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8436	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to say about these findings that have been made here, which don't surprise me by those who are already in one, two or three terms, which they should know and know, I'm surprised at them, I'm not surprised at these young colleagues who are in the first term. In the previous and previous term here, it is clear in Parliament that no law in this House of Representatives will pass which is the transfer of jurisdiction, so which is constitutionally unfounded. This is the first criterion, and the second criterion – where the ministers from the entity we represent are revoted. And we here represent not only the established SNSDs, my dear colleague, and them, of course, but other citizens from Republika Srpska. You seem to mind that when Republika Srpska and that entity are mentioned here, but you must know that's how it is in the Constitution. And whether you like it or not, it says so, and we all have to respect it. And you are now referring to some who are supposed to, allegedly, take this law to make some great success and that it has nothing to do with constitutional jurisdiction. Well, it's like you said right now that, say, retirement insurance is on the level, it's state jurisdiction, and it's not, it's entity jurisdiction. And I'm surprised that you didn't remember that generation that suffers greatly because the Federal Pension Insurance Fund won't pay out pensions to people who made a salary, or pension, based on their employment and past work here in cities that belong to the Federation, they can't get a pension from the Federal Fund today, but of course pensions are given to them by the Republika Srpska Fund. You didn't think of it to find understanding for those people who are already at the end of their lives, whose pensions mean a lot, but of course you noticed that athletes who will naturally suffer a lot if this Law is not adopted. They are young, promising, capable and courageous, and they will certainly succeed in life and without this Law. After all, it's not that it's not legally arranged, so there's a clearly precise... what and how it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8437	Time. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8438	Do not convince us here that something is not constitutional, that something is constitutionally founded or not founded. This Law is not constitutionally founded. And that doesn't mean that five members of a committee, I'm surprised by Mr. Arnaut that he said, enough that five members of the Constitutional Commission said it was constitutional and it's constitutional now, doesn't matter what it says in the Constitution. It doesn't matter what it says is that sport is in the jurisdiction of the entity. So you're saying your five votes are bigger and stronger than the Constitution, what's in the Constitution. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8439	Thank you very much. Replica, representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8440	Again..., I am sorry indeed but don't, Mrs Marković, so the problem with your presentation is when you say Republika Srpska is equal to the Srbin, so... from such a position you discuss. Thus, by violating or contrary to the Constitution of the Republika Srpska entity, which says it is an entity of the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian people and others, and I am sure you do not speak for at least two peoples in Republika Srpska in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8441	Thank you. Replica, second replica, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8442	It's not a replica, it's a false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8443	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8444	Obviously, you, Mr Ahmetović, did not listen well to what I said. I said the SNSD Club represents exactly the established SNSDs, as well as all other citizens from Republika Srpska. So, one who is not considered a citizen of Republika Srpska is his problem, is not a SNSD problem. And don't convince me, don't impute me what I didn't say if you don't listen well. And, who is considered and who is not considered a citizen of Republika Srpska, I know perfectly who is considered a citizen of Republika Srpska, and what you say, you realize that Republika Srpska is equal to the Serbian people, that's what you said. But I would also be very happy if you had said the Federation of BiH equal to Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat and everyone else who lives here, and rarely when you mention it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8445	Thank you very much. Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8446	Thank you to my colleague Marković. I replicate, first of all, that I have to say that I am glad that, I don't know if anyone said that, that the colleagues from the SNSD have returned to Parliament and that they are actively involved in the work, they are discussing it, and I don't think that they should, that there is no one who isn't happy about it. Also, this one, they helped us to at least shorten the duration of the session for a little while because there are no more of their regular initiatives to replace the chairman Džaferović at the beginning of each session. So, there is some step and it is clear that there is some will that the SNSD Club also constructively assists the work of this Parliament. What I'm saying is that it is about amendments to the Law on Sports in BiH that is in force, and somehow we go far from the very essence of what is proposed. For us at the SDP Club, any discussion that treats the essence of the Law itself is acceptable and since it is gladly in the first reading would be fair and fair to all say which segments are acceptable to us, unacceptable, possibly through amendments that someone who disagrees would suggest eradicating some members, but at this point we talk about jurisdiction over the Law that already exists I think is unnecessary. So it might be good to go back to the essence and say our views on individual solutions, even if we suggest something to delete, add, first reading, gives us the possibility of that parliamentary breadth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8447	Thank you very much. You had two replicas. Let's go, replica, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8448	The replica of Mrs. Milica Marković, since she called me a young proposing, I'm going to call her a middle-aged colleague. I don't mind Republika Srpska, nor, and I'm sorry people who don't now, is that, mentioned by the Pension and Social Insurance Fund or health insurance, but it's not the subject of today's conversation. Well, since I didn't think about them, here's what I suggest you do at the next session, run that initiative or amend and supplement some law. And the difference between me and you is that I don't mind Republika Srpska because that's where all three people and one part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina live, but unlike me, you have a problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's why this amendment and the addition of the law bothers you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8449	Predrag Kožul, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8450	I'll replicate to my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. For the sake of Article 5 of the amendment and the addition of this Act, I will not vote for this Law and I ask that you do not disqualify me because of my vote and you do not controversy with the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You will vidjećete it quite certainly contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and certainly to Article 7 of our futures, if we adopt them, our future code, as many things have been said here today were indeed contrary to the code. Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8451	Thank you very much. I ask Sadik Ahmetović to remove his application from the replica. We're going to a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8452	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So it's really a lot of time here at today's session on the constitutionality of the law issue, but let's, let's, or the bill, let's be honest, this is the first reading. Clearly, the Rules of Procedure prescribes the difference between the first and second readings. So, the Law on Sports in BiH already exists, it is undeniable. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina's authority to treat this matter is indisputable. This is not a new law, there is a law, this is a law on amendments and additions to the existing law. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's authority to treat that matter is completely undeniable. So here's Mr. Novaković's exit, but he and whoever else talked about this, so there's no objection to the constitutionality of the bill's proposal as such, but the obvious remarks refer to certain members, individual members of this proposal. But then according to the Rules of Procedure, according to the Constitution of this country is not resolved in the first reading. If the constitutionality of the law is such, matter is undeniable, it is not resolved in the first reading. The observations on the constitutionality of individual members are then resolved through amendments in the second reading. And nothing prevents you from adopting your amendments then break the law as a whole in a second reading. Mrs. Majkić said she was surprised by me, and I will never support the constitutional basis of the law on the Constitutional Commission, which, as such, engulfs her in clearly divided jurisdiction, as such. However, ma'am, I'm sorry, it wasn't Mrs. Marković, Mrs. Majkić, I apologize, but the law as such cannot say that it is incurring the constitutional powers of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it already exists, and no one has disputed its constitutionality before the BiH Constitutional Court. So, I'm saying, the law as such, if you have any objections about the constitutionality of individual solutions, so you have a second phase, suggest amendments. If you convince me that a single member of this bill is entering clear constitutional jurisdiction between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities, I will be the first to support your amendment. If your amendments don't go through and you still stand in the position that the controversial constitutionality of a certain member then you have a second phase and take him down in phase two, but don't let us kill the Law today. Because to be absolutely clear, because of the media, today if this law is not adopted in the first reading, it is dead, there is no further. Don't, because be careful, what's unconstitutional, in Article 1, where he says the words "invalid face" are replaced by words; "a person with disabilities", but I'm sure you don't mind, you don't mention that constitutionality. Then let it pass in the first reading, and then let us bring it down, that is, if you want all the other 14 members, but do not say that the law is unconstitutional, for it is not. The matter is clearly constitutional and the law already exists and none of you have challenged it before the BiH Constitutional Court. The law is in force. And that's what I was talking about. So the Constitutional Commission gave a positive opinion on the constitutionality of the law as such, and that is undeniable. Article 1, why should we be a country that has a law on the force of a disabled person? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well no, but you're going to kill it today, today you're going to kill this bill if you knock it down in the first reading, that's clear. You have a second reading, take down, if you want to suggest erasing the other 14 members, but do not refer to the constitutional basis and kill the first member who says the words "invalid person" are replaced by the words "face with disability". And to be clear, once again, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I will always, I have sworn that I will consistently implement the BiH Constitution, will not get my support of the law that is in the jurisdiction of any level of government, but when it is as such. But that's not the case here, and you know it. And let's please let this go in the first reading, act on the amendments, you know very well what the decision-making system in this House is, you can kill this law in the second reading if your amendments don't pass. But today is not the time, because if you kill him today, you'll be left with a disabled person instead of a disabled person. And it's going to be an effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8454	Thank you very much. A representative of Dušanka had two replicas, only if it was an alleged or something, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8455	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8456	Here you go. Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8457	So, it's all right that your colleague said, just one thing, if you had that attitude on the Constitutional Legal Commission when you saw that three MPs from Republika Srpska didn't vote for the law, then I would have been correct and said, let's see if there is any, can we talk, is not correct, so you need that number of votes is ours, so it's none of your business, but we're voting against, all Bosniaks are voting against and we're not interested. Now don't go back to this part, it's not right, be consistent when deciding on our rights as you're now asking us to decide yours. To us, three or four times we talk about this law the same, to you it may be the first time, and we have listened... to this law. So we'll never vote. What the law has passed we stick to 100%. Change and destroy entity jurisdiction and we can never accept it. So you have to understand that, and that's what we told you on the Constitutional Commission and you didn't want to understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8458	Thank you very much. I don't know what Agent Damir Arnaut wanted now because they were also used, you used the lines, don't make any precedents, that's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8459	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8460	Two replicas, we recorded, now we've been checking.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8461	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8462	Okay, come on, we're not gonna make...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8463	If I had two replicas I'm really giving up, but, thank you, the replica of course Mrs. Majkić. You see, so I just said to the Constitutional Commission that I am voting on the constitutionality of the law as such. When, for example, The proposal comes to abolish the foreign ministry, the bill, of course, that I will not support it because the law as such is against the BiH Constitution, because in the Constitution of BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a foreign ministry, but every time I support it if the bill as such does not violate the constitutional system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is possible that individual members do so, because certain members can be discussed in the second phase, they can be affected by an amendment. And at the end of the day, you know very well because of the entity vote, you can break the bill in both the first and second readings. But if you knock it down in the first reading, then you don't give it an opportunity to act on the amendments, and then the effect is that the check and the provision that says that the words "invalid face" are replaced by the words "face with disability" then falls. And that's not right. So, and we know very well, let's be fair, that the law as such that matter is not unconstitutional, is not opposed to the Constitution of BiH for the simple reason that this law already exists at the level, so these are amendments and additions to the existing law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I know, but those responsibilities you're talking about, and the responsibilities Mrs. Majkić spoke about earlier, can be treated in the amendment phase. Let's separate those two parts of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8465	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8466	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Very briefly, there are no your interests and our interests here. I've been discussing and I think most of the debaters have gone that way, it's about the interests of young people from both Republika Srpska and the Federation, so from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not when they are, when they're young, there's nothing of yours or my interest. So, just replica to that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8467	Thank you very much. Replica, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8468	Thank you. Since I am in a group of those, as you would say, middle-aged MPs are very much, I will just take the opportunity to adopt a new code, it is very, very incorrect that we, at least colleagues, have a rare colleague in Parliament without any respect for each other. I appreciate the fact that a colleague of Gasal-Vražalica-Devil dared to propose amendments to a law that was not good, and it had to be done. I know that the Council of Ministers had an intention and that the Council of Ministers' Work Programme was the adoption of the Law on Sports, a colleague was faster, she beat the Council of Ministers, and instead of welcoming the brave MP's initiative and the fact that we have finally young colleagues in Parliament, but young... because this House has for years only the same persons in the Parliamentary Assembly. I am encouraged by the arrival of new... persons who bring... democracy to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And instead of supporting each other, so we are a little bit here in Parliament, we are making life more difficult by giving each other... a transfer of competence and we know that the already existing law is the competent authority for sports affairs at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Ministry of Civil Affairs within which a specific sector is formed – the Sports Sector and is said to be the competences of this Sports Sector. I know for a fact that a colleague, which was led by... this law, and I don't find any funny provisions and alignment with the Law on Gender Equality,...the budget. In the end, MPs from this Parliamentary Assembly will also participate in international conferences on... budgets beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is in Sweden. So whether it's funny to us or not, calls come, so it's done beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By mentioning the Dayton Peace Accords, I ask you to periodically praise the Dayton Peace Accords, it is not a cookie that you can take, if necessary, when it suits you and when you are not answered to call upon it. If so... in the Dayton Peace Agreement and you advocate for it don't talk about the division of Republika Srpska every once in a while, trying to make everything that is manipulation, and the darkness in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is happening because of the destroyers of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8469	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8470	do not try to discourage young basketball players, football players and athletes of Bosnia and Herzegovina by not passing such a law. I am proud that in the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the basketball player Sikiras applauded the whole of Sarajevo and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina by calling him Sikiraš from Pala, which is Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's my state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and don't try any other way...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8471	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8472	You've recorded how many times I've thanked you. Thank you for giving me your word. And of course this isn't a replica to the lady, this is a discussion. Some things that in rational thinking still need to be looked at in a slightly different way is something that borders on common sense when we start talking about what's impossible to do the way we imagine it. I've mentioned a few things, it's impossible to go to the Olympic Games if you're not under the flag of BiH, it's impossible... a top-quality athlete if he's not under the State's patronage. So these powerful U.S.A.s are broken down and then they hold their own competitions and choose those who will enter representative selections to go to the Olympics and then they take care of them. And every country within the American Confederation has its own sport law, but each and every one. But it's not what they say, a rabbit, but every German province from Bavaria to Hamburg, to Berlin has its own sport law, but Germany leads to what is a sulkus of quality, a sulkus of what is meant to be a country and that the country is recognized in the world and that the country is loved. I don't respect it, it's the right of everyone to choose where they're going, what they're going to do and how they're going to do, but because there was no tennis alliance at all at that moment, since tennis was mentioned, here two top tennis players left us. Here's Čilić, I don't know Herzegovina is proud of him, it's normal, it's perfectly normal. But if it were a tennis alliance, he'd be a Bosnian Herzegian tennis player. We have one more, not to mention all the names of a Banjalučanina who was among the world's top ten deniers, but because we are who he was. And none of them went all the way to the top just because they have some others, I'm sorry, because Borna Ćorić is more exposed now, and he would be the first here, that's the big difference, that's, that's, that's ____________) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]] Let's do it right, I'll support him, so we understand each other right away. What Mrs. Gasal suggested was just a basis that should be further upgraded, upgraded. And may this be a compliment to you young ones, because many would like to really look what you look like. No, no, I'm saying this seriously, so this is a little bit of a depression just so you know, figure this out, and you know what?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8474	Please refrain from commenting, continue the debate. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8475	Zeljko, don't wave your fingers at me, because we're talking here, we're talking, and we're not going to comb what's in reality. Mostar gave, enter the handball, on the World Federation Handicraft site, the third is by ranking all the time in the world and instead of returning it from Vienna today because of this relationship, Jasna Merdan-Merdan-Kolar will never return. So, the third of all time in the world - did I say the name and last name exactly? 85 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. I know it's a miracle, but that's why she's offered to come, to run some clubs from Ljubusko, out of these relationships, the Austrian team is with eight girls from BiH, two from Serbia, four from Croatia, one of the best in Europe, but your faith when we're ready and thus sell out our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8477	Thank you very much. A debate by Representative Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8478	Thank you, Chairman. I think we've said a lot about this point, and all we're saying is too much, is whether, of course, I would try to be brief, I would say that athletes are actually the greatest ambassadors of one state, and I think BiH. On the contrary, I don't mind the Federation, nor the Republika Srpska, but I do mind something else, when BiH athletes go to major competitions that they don't have the money to quote, for the hotel, in world competitions they can't participate, because we don't have sources of funding. So, this law may also have a small gap, but we, the SBB Club, are probably going to fill that out in the amendment phase, because it's not about funding sources. And sources of funding, I have to mention here, I think we're guilty, too, of this Parliament. We had one in May of the month, is the adoption of a budget that's quite archaic and administrative, so it's not programming, in which we wanted to give amendments exactly to these things that we said, the 24 amendments we had prepared, here I am now publicly saying it, because we had it, but we didn't have a chance to present them right in this House. Because you know how we adopted the budget when it was supposed to be a vote then we said it was both a first and a second reading and we moved on to the adoption of the budget. So, after two months we came to the stage that our athletes went out of the BiH state and had no means to compete, i.e. for hotel, quotes, etc. As for the SBB, therefore, the SBB will support this initiative, of course, all the praises of Ms. Gasal, this particularly on the gender-sensitive dictionary and gender-sensitive budgeting mentioned in the part being spoken, which speaks of the financing of such associations. So the SBB will support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8479	Thank you very much. Debate, representative of Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8480	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues and I think it is necessary to encourage everyone's efforts to introduce some new tone in Parliament's work and any kind of proposal when someone wants to propose it should be encouraged and consider it... what we will talk about here in Parliament. I think it is necessary to encourage young Members and to encourage Mrs Maja in all of this, respecting her fundamental position, her political position. But as much of all of you, I ask that you respect our political views as well. We have the right to have a political position on a matter and we absolutely have no ambition to impose any of our political views, we could be silent today, we can plead in the act of voting, we will have what we will have. I wouldn't bring sarcasm here, I wouldn't bring anxiety here, and I just think there's some other way to talk about sports. Every sportsman, no matter where he is, is in Mostara, Shiroki Brijeg, Banja Luka, very difficult, who was not in sports and did not work for sports has no idea. And I think that we all fall for sports, at all levels and that there are insufficient allocations for sports at all levels in BiH and there are no black jobs but to work in sports collectives and provide funds, you turn out to be racketeeres, representatives of someone's interests, etc. Of course, in the discussions here, which I would not like to comment on, it was primarily only about top-notch sports, at least there were stories about amateur sports, school sports and some other sports that most people here know about what I'm talking about. I think that in a broader debate on sport, we should deal in a different way, respecting that there is a Law on Sport at the level of BiH, that there is a Law on Sport at the level of entities and that we should see how there is political responsibility for people in, who are in politics, to ensure that they are evenly and that all types of sports in BiH develop better. It is quite clear here and I will say a little tentuously, and Mr. Đonlagić will understand me, to try to enter the jurisdiction of the entity's sports alliances, and I think that in the changes to certain, proposed changes of certain members there is, I would say, one, under the supposed signs, a trap that we have recognized. And I also have to remind you that when we leave sports to athletes, there were examples of statutes... alliances and some others that it works, you mean that today the Football Federation of BiH, the Basketball Federation of BiH, the volleyball union of BiH, etc. does not work. But of course, the foundation is to respect the views of the entity sports alliances. Do you agree? Do you still agree that, in the very way of functioning of the BiH-level alliances, the opinions of the entity alliances are respected? The structure also respects the entity structure, right? The selection of selectors, coaches, too. So it means that it works, but the intrusion in the jurisdiction of certain species that are subject here allow us to characterise as a trap and that's our political position that maybe we couldn't or should have brought out now, but I completely understand the enthusiasm, the argument given by Mrs. Majkić in the sense that some things want to say in a perhaps more transparent way than we could have in deciding. I really ask you not to, absolutely none of us need to lecture anyone, to stick to our political views and certain arguments, and not to impose a solution and not to open it in any other way that will not contribute to the development of sports in BiH. So we will determine this in the way our political position is, but I think that energy should be directed at, all of us and in all the political parties that we come from, in the way we provide funding for all kinds of sports, I mean, above all, school, amateur, then professional, top-notch, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8481	Thank you. 87 Advocacy Backović has used his replicas, whether it is something else, business or ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8482	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8483	It's all been recorded here, thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more candidates for discussion and replicas, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to next point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-12/15, of 06/08/2015, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights The draft law was submitted in procedure 06/08/2015. He appointed his kolega to the dom responsible for his consideration of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional legal basis on 15/09/2015, the committee responsible submitted its opinion on the principles of 15/09/2015, the opinion is negative, the principles of the Bill's proposal are not supported. I'm opening a debate on this opinion. Deputy Džaferović, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8485	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know why the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which has given this law a negative opinion, has given me absolutely no idea, I followed this law, I read it, I see it is a single reform, we have also received the Law on Foreigners now in the BiH Parliament, separates the problems in two laws. I think it would be a great shame for this law to fall on the first step here in the parliamentary procedure, so I appreciate that it would be good for the dom today to reject this negative report and the law to return to the commission, and then in the dialogue between the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry and the Commission to clarify all the issues which were on the Commission itself. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8486	Thank you very much. The debate of Hanko Vajzović, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8487	Thank you very much. Is this an opportunity to talk about the text of the law, the bill? So this is the first Law on Asylum, we know, before that he was together with the name of the Law on Movement and residence of 88 foreigners and asylum, this is the first time that he's separated, he stays there, I think we've already got a weird name in the materials, now it's the Law on Foreigners, not about moving and staying foreigners, but not talking about it. I'm not going to talk about what could be amended to this text, and I'm not talking about it either, because what some of my suggestions are, or what I'm saying, or what I'm saying, or what I'm saying about this text, can't be changed. So I generally stick to what I might be referring to as a discrepancy with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules and what would be the language-legal and linguistic and legal nature that I've seen here, then this would further mean returning this text to completion, to reviewing, to a little more attention to address and a little better order. What's this about? So, by respecting the unique rules, it goes through the terms, let's just say, the usual one, that's Article 2. The meaning of the term in the law is certainly a law that will be sensitive and given the situation that is ahead of us, happening to these refugees, and now such a processing actually brings the text into confusion. We find out from this, from this here, we find out something simply amazing that he's a minor, let's just say I'm talking about a relationship to the text I'm not going to go to the metric and what are solutions per member, that a minor is a stranger under 18. Well, I don't know the term here is an unaccompanied minor, a family member is thought to be, I'm talking about access again, it's confused in two members in contradiction to bring home residence and residence, and then it's simply amazing as terms here to introduce faith and say – faith especially involves thematic, untheistic and atheistic beliefs participation or not participation in private, everything is kind of aproximative in this part, and it seems to me that there are a lot of terminology that would be necessary, in order for the law to be applicable to be thoroughly processed. Here is the political opinion, you do not know where it was taken, because such terms are practically definitions, this, or defined, term is – a certain social group. And so I don't read what it says, and then on the other hand you're left with one weird and named term and... - a business incompetent stranger. I couldn't figure it out, I couldn't figure it out, or I could have guessed it was a seeker or an asylum seeker who wasn't capable of work. I mean, it would be good to search this thoroughly before, of course, the solutions will, I suppose, be talked about, because it should be applied, especially now that this text is really going to be needed. That's one of my, I think, or at all, agreeing on the text -- a stranger who is considered dangerous to the security of BiH for good reasons, and then -- and poses a danger to BiH, etc. It should fix this text to be applicable. Here's not to worry about how many mistakes there are going to be, but it's important to be clear, that the message is not compromised or that it's not necessary either after we pass the law as it often does for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8488	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8489	Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers. Well, I actually think that we've been using time irrationally today, so here I am calling for rationally at least us MPs to act. We have a negative view of the Commission here, so I call on everyone to declare the Commission's position on the fate of the law. I am for this law to survive, so to reject the Commission's proposal, to return the law to it and discuss the metrics. Everything else loses its meaning, let's break the pears and apples, and basically everything can be more effective, so we don't take anyone's right to say what he thinks about the metrics, 89, but the question is whether we're going to discuss it at all. So, it has a negative view of the Commission, I call for us to vote against that position and to return the law back, to stay alive and to work on the law, respecting, of course, all those who have an objection. But if we talk about remarks today, all day long, so what are we gonna do when we get that law back? So just let's try to be rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8490	Thank you very much. Deputy Džaferović, replica or here's what we'll hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8491	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vajzović, her discussion asked me to go back to the pay phone, so from this discussion it is clear to me that there is, and that is what the teacher herself said, the lack of understanding of the basic concepts contained in this Law. The question of legal capacity, business skills are issues that are defined, the question of ability to work or incompetence to work is something else entirely. I therefore ask that everything that is unclear be made clear to the Commission, let the minister come, let the people explain this all, MPs must know, must be clear with these things, but only when everything is clear about the law itself or against the law are we, so we have come to the situation that one effort, the reform effort that seems to be in the Council of Ministers to standardise this matter with the most modern standards condemning in advance. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8492	Thank you very much. Replica Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8493	The chairman, therefore, my replica refers to this, unfortunately I must make one observation regarding the replica of the Council of Ministers. Yesterday at the debate on this agenda point, uh... no one was against, so on the Joint Commission, according to the report you saw this, this principle of the Law, unfortunately I have to say that the representative of the ministry, the Assistant Minister, has done everything to make this decision. I specifically voted in favour, but I believe that representatives of the Council of Ministers must go to the meeting to come to a solution, especially when it comes to the laws entering the procedure and there was no reason for it to be negative yesterday, I am surprised by the behaviour of the Assistant Minister, and in this sense I believe that the Council of Ministers must be much more proactive in relation to the proposals of the laws that go into the commission phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8494	Thank you very much. Debate representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8495	I will agree very briefly, therefore, with all those who have said that we reject the Commission's negative opinion, and I am fully convinced that when we enter into this debate we will really be discussing principles here and not enter into details when it comes to this legal project alone. I think the legal projects are good, it makes some kind of progress, it can always be further enriched, etc. but I think that, in my view, I would suggest, therefore, to the Parliamentary Assembly to return, or to reject the Commission's negative opinion and return to the Commission, and to continue the debate on this law, that simply the effort that has been made so far in terms of compliance with all the levels of government, the level that has been achieved so far, here is a legal project that is applicable in BiH, this can stand up to the Bosnian Herzegovina society and this solution should not be rejected. And I therefore call on my colleagues to reject therefore this kind of attitude of the Commission on Human Rights, to take back to the Commission and to continue the debate, with a call of course that only the Ministry and the Council of Ministers are engaged to clarify all these details which, of course, we are not MPs obliged to know this matter in the way that people who professionally deal with these issues know this matter. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8496	Thank you very much. If I understand the Minister of Security wants to do it in some way right now, here's what might be affecting these discussions, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8497	Thank you. I just wanted to say a few words, I have no intention of making it absolutely complicated, and I hope that Parliament will find the best solution when it comes to this asylum law, because it is simply the law and how important and important it is, especially now that we have a kind of refugee crisis and mass inflow and everything about this problem and this problem, and it is very important to us that some of the things that support this Law, and as far as mass uncontrolled inflows are concerned, we welcome here in BiH and that we deal with it in a way that we do the least damage, first of all, here, to all of us in BiH. I was not yesterday for legitimate private reasons at the session of this Commission, otherwise it would certainly be in my interest to pass this law and to find itself in parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, and therefore I heard that there were certain, as I would say, incorrect or perhaps uncultural behaviour by the assistants. I also had a conversation with him this morning, and he said he had to come to the next session of this Commission and apologize publicly to the members of the Commission for the way he acted. And here I am taking the opportunity to apologize, as minister on behalf of my assistant, for all the inaccuracies. But please, I have, I have, I have, I have, and now Mr. Prodanović said that the law was less controversial, but perhaps the result was, to say, one such behaviour of the assistant minister that was, but I shouldn't now be asking you, here to understand me, no matter how I acted, it was for me to sanction it, that every other way to suffer the consequences of the one who did it, but to let the legal regulation live, because it is very important and we need it very much. But please, I think... there's a misunderstanding here, so who's been reading this law now on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum, which we have, all of this termiology, we have. Well, a minor's face is under 18 and there's no, what's, what's controversial. A minor without 91 escorts, so I'm a minor, it's a termology internationally in refugee terminology and it's the termology of UNHCR. The residence and residence, two different categories, you have a residence and you have a place of residence, you have in our domestic legislation and residence and residence, and there is, I don't know what's controversial. A business incapacitated stranger, please not for work, but a stranger who because of a certain, here is to say this simple, mental disorder cannot legally and properly conclude any contracts and agreements and that the competent one, if it is a minor, the competent center for social work, must give or determine a legal representative or attorney. If he's not a minor, then someone else can do it for him, so the power of attorney. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And please, here's to not saying how important it is now, and how important it is, I've heard that there have been a lot of stories about European directives and everything, this thing, please, the EU immigration system has fallen apart, so you see no respect for the basic, basic postulations, let me say, of European legislation when it comes to immigration regulations. So where do we have a view? We currently have a problem with the mass inflow of illegal migrants from the EU, Greece is a product of everything that comes to us, and the basic elemental law and agreement that Bosnia has concluded with the EU is the right.... means to us a foreigner who comes illegally from a country and we have proof that he has come, that country is obliged to accept that foreigner. And why can't Serbia return the table and some thousands of Macedonia? Because Greece doesn't want to see any strangers. The system has fallen apart, immigration regulations do not work in the EU. So please, then, what directive and rules and regulations have determined for Hungary? Hungary tonight doesn't want to receive asylum applications, they said no. He comes, stranger, and says I want asylum. He says, "Come to Serbia and sign up there." No, it's not working. Give it to me after we've regulated it here and I don't want to list another set of things. I hear someone saying we don't prescribe Croatian law, etc. So if that's the conclusion that we're going to rewrite Croatian, okay, we're going to rewrite it, but we need to pass a law in which we will respect all international norms, in particular the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, the views of UNHCR that it has on refugees and mass inflow, we are not... and European directives, but to some extent that we can implement. We cannot accept the European Directive Euro dac on, say, the frontext, about what else we are not an integral part of these European institutions, please. And not to tell a big story right now, I'm afraid there's been a lot of misunderstanding and misunderstanding. And I'm asking you, if it's possible to find a way, here I am ready, whenever you want to go back to that Commission and we're going to get a member, so here's all the terminology that's being used and the register of these... from the UNHCR registry which is, which is also running the international migration organization... that's dealing with the issue of migration, please. We haven't invented a single term here or legal terms used by our legislation. So we in our right and bonds and everyone else have an appointment or a business incompetent person. But it's not a matter of being unable to work but incompetent in terms of legal and valid conclusion of a contract and the adoption of certain services. Let me say that if it's possible in any way, I'm asking you, here's whenever you schedule this commission, I'll come and it's important that we explain it. Well, we haven't done anything spectacular on account of the last Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum, we've set something up, just to say so, with some European standards, we've taken something where we can, as close as we can to the EU directives and, of course, we'd adapt it to our security system, that in addition to mass inflows and let's say right now, hypothetically I'm saying, 10, 20 or 50 refugees, thousands of refugees to come to BiH so that we can find ways, take biometric and any other data from these, from these foreigners that we can, I don't know, in case of abuse of asylum institutes. So the Švajcarac made a decision in 48 hours, both in the first and second degree. I'm sorry, the UK is in 72 hours, and we need any asylum seekers or international security seekers to keep us here for six months, so where do we get the money, which, how... Please once again, as far as it is possible for this 92 to return to the procedure, I am convinced that if a member should be required, but I am telling you, we will certainly come to a definitive and final solution and this is very important from the point of view of BiH's European integration. Thank you. ---16:44:45---- 16:44:45
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8498	Thank you. Replica, representative of Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8499	Thank you very much. I just want to remind myself that at first I have fenced myself, said that I will not enter into the metrics, I will not enter into the solutions given in certain members of this law. But I did point out one inadmissible inconclusive relationship to the text referred to this high House. I was talking about it, if he's a minor, so there's no need to point out that a minor is a stranger younger than 18, but that he's a minor and a second. If we define these, there's a stranger here who's under 18. A certain social group is defined here, so don't ask how. I know there should also be a difference between residence and residence, but then it gets mixed up in two definitions and it is said that the residence is a place and address in BiH where a refugee, a residence, is permanently inhabited. And the land of origin says, in which a person without citizenship had his former habitual residence. Is it then a place of residence or a place of residence? How can this be, how can a stranger have a permanent residence in another country? I mean, it took a little bit more serious for the text to sort it out, of course, a very important law, very necessary, and we'll all agree on that in the current situation, and I just said that a moment ago. That's all I wanted, which is the choice and here's what you said, for this second term. All right, he'll be fine, is that what he says, a business incompetent stranger? But there's no such thing as terminology. There's faith in what's been processed ahead, there's a certain social group, there's political opinion, but there's no such thing. And that's also an important term for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8500	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8501	I just wanted to suggest that it gets a little more serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8502	Thank you. Debate, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8503	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 93 I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and was present at the Commission meeting yesterday. I would correct Mr Bojić, not the Commission gave a negative opinion but simply the Commission did not give a positive opinion because at least one vote was missing from the order of a constituent people. Mr. Bojić, you know very well, on many occasions I have pointed out that I am extremely pleased with the way you run the Commission. I think you've achieved some very important things during your term as chairman of the Commission, raised some questions that people should not have before, so I really think so. But let me note that yesterday you were a little biased perhaps because the minister was from your party and the assistant minister saw it as a green light to treat the members of the Commission extremely arrogantly and it escalated. So we didn't have one outburst at the end, we had one escalation and his words were completely different from the words of Mr. Minister we hear today. So, Mr. Minister today offered to come to a session of the Commission and a member by member, and yesterday the assistant minister refused to read some things, did not want to answer questions, he gave a flat-rate assessment that people did not understand, but MPs, that they did not understand. So, he was wasting his time, I got that impression. And I'm sorry you gave him the green light. I don't think it was intentional, but I think that's one of the reasons why the Commission didn't give a positive opinion. Had the assistant minister had more patience, had he answered some questions, had he simply respected a particular argument, perhaps the outcome would have been different. And now he's a minister, and I'm really sorry that you came into the situation to beg the minors here for a House of Representatives to give you a chance to come and discuss this member by member. You mentioned sanctioning an assistant minister, I don't know, I'm not into these things to sanction civil servants. I think political responsibility should be borne by a politically appointed person. I am concerned by the fact that you have suggested, so you explicitly said that the EU immigration system has fallen apart and that you have then suggested that EU directives are losing importance. However, another thing, Mr Bećirović said for a little while, I agree with him, that every time someone uses someone's age and so on, there is a lack of arguments. And we have a similar thing with doctors and lawyers when they say, here we see one elemental ignorance of legal matter or medical matter and as if it is now, and that is what Mr. Džaferović referred to Mrs. Vajzović, as if he had noticed the fundamental ignorance of legal matter, which is absolutely not true. And especially because we have a negative opinion from the BiH Ministry of Justice here. Does the BiH Ministry of Justice have an elementary knowledge of legal matter? Because then I don't know why the Department of Justice's negative opinion. We have 4-5 suggestions that are not respected, the BiH Justice Ministry, in which I guess, past the minister, some lawyers are sitting. So, did you hear from Mr. Džaferović, therefore, I am concerned about the future of BiH if there are people who do not have an elementary knowledge of legal matter in the ministry of justice. I don't know what their argument would be then. Someone's argument is he's young when he's young, someone who's not a lawyer the argument is he doesn't know the legal stuff. Here I know her but not to mention myself I want to believe, I really want to believe that our Ministry of Justice has an elementary knowledge of legal matter and that it hasn't yet given a negative opinion with even 7 negative points, suggestions, suggestions that you didn't respect. The Department of Security didn't respect it. And we tried to point out these things to the assistant minister, he had no patience, he didn't really have patience, but here I welcome this minister's offer and I hope you'll come next time and we'll go member by member. Thank you. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8504	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8505	Very briefly, since I've been mentioned. So here the principles were discussed, not the member per member, but as much as possible. I was biased by the law, which, in my opinion, is something that has reached general agreement in BiH and has reached agreement with all levels of government and this is something that is applicable in BiH and a huge effort has been made here. Of course, I'm an assistant minister, as far as his behavior is concerned, I don't get into that part, but what he was talking about was something that was quite enough elements to see. We got the situation we have, I said what my opinion is, and I think we should get this back to the Commission and continue working on the legal project itself. Whether I was biased or not, I say I was biased by the law and as far as I'm concerned about those individuals, I first saw a man on that commission, I didn't care at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8506	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8507	Mr. Špirić, don't bother me when I say I don't know where I am, what I was gonna say. I'm asking you to warn Špirić, he's distracting me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8508	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8509	Well, I don't, but it bothers me. I thank and apologize for the dialogue, I just can't help but look the left-hand side. Thank you very much, so there is no bias, my attitude is to the law, not to that assistant.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8510	Thank you very much. Replica, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8511	Mr. Bojić, I really want to be, in order to maintain the correct relationship we have, to be clear. I really didn't want to suggest that you were showing any bias towards the assistant, towards him, but as a representative of the ministry from, since the minister is from the same party. But I hope you won't have patience for that, because it really escalated. Well, you saw all of us, I think 12 of us, 11 of us yesterday on that commission, it escalated. It went to the moment when a man told Mr. Karamatić what he said, I mean what I really didn't see anywhere, and let alone in 95 assembly benches that so-called getting up, getting up, leaving the gym, but that's probably how we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8512	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8513	Thank you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8514	I love you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8515	I didn't break the code. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Allow me, I do thank you anyway. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8519	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8520	Okay. So, please, this has to go into procedure, but it has to have a fundamental reconstruction, because it's simply not going to be applicable in terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8521	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine Ad.9. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Act No: 01,02-02-4-1086/15 of 31.07.2015 On 31 July 2015, the Joint Committee delivered the draft Code in the procedure. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. The Rules of Procedure, which are responsible for considering that proposal, have been designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 15 September 2015, the proposal for a code was adopted. I would also like to add that until this debate on the agenda point, we have also received four amendments as a proposal from the SBB Club. 97 I'm opening a debate on this code. Nikola Lovrinović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8523	Thank you. So, I'd just like one question. We don't have a first and a second round of readings here, we have nothing, are we finishing the story about this code today?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8525	Since I have a proposal for an amendment, I think I can put it in now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8526	That's right, during the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8527	Nothing, I wouldn't want to convince them now, but I'm going to make amendments so I don't have to convince them, so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8528	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8529	Thank you. Here I have already mentioned, so I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and I have participated in the Commission's work and indeed the Commission's original plan was to consider this under the basic legislative procedure and be the second amendment phase. The college did not accept that, so we are now facing amendments at this session because today they will vote on this, adopt or reject it. The SBB Club has invested 4 amendments and they are quite detailedly explained, but here let me within the time available to do this here, it's not adopted. So, Article 19. Article 2 – after Article 1 prescribes the obligation of MPs and delegates to comply with all the requirements of the media for the provision of information and related to the performance of their duties, it is absolutely not disputed. Article 2 The proposal for a code says - when giving information to the media, MPs and delegates will be guided by the adopted positions of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Commission and other working bodies, and in the event of disagreement, the public may learn about its own position. The obligation to manage adopted positions can only exist for official rapporteurs who, as such, are designated by the commission or the House and who, as such, already have an obligation to handle the adopted positions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as such. 98 Applying this obligation to each MP, including opposition MPs and delegates, and putting opposition MPs and delegates in subordinate (?) The position and derogation of their position and role of the opposition in a way is entirely a feature of democratic society. Therefore, the code cannot order opposition MPs and ultimately no one, to speak to the media as the majority adopted. And Mr. Novaković had just recently replicated it to me in his position as the Constitutional Commission. In Amendment II, which concerns Article 20(1), after the word "prejudice", the wording is added instead of a point, including on the basis of political ideology, race, religion, nation, sex or any other status, an explanation – it is necessary to specify the prejudices which are not allowed in dealing with the staff of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Now, in Article 22, point 1 of point (g). The current text is replaced by the words "to highlight bias towards race, religion, nation, sex or any other status in any situation, as well as the emphasis on political ideology in relations with the staff of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH", where the proposed text prohibits MPs from ever stressing bias towards a different political ideology. So let me observe that in the first session after the adoption of this code, we would all be punished for violating the code because our job here is to highlight the bias of a particular political ideology. MPs and delegates should not be prevented from showing bias towards political ideology because different political ideologies are, in fact, the essence of the various political parties in a democratic society. The bias towards political ideology, however, MPs and delegates should not and must not show in their relations with the staff of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, these are professionals who work here to help us, but do not prohibit the emphasis on political ideology on people who are politically elected. So, one absurd, we on the Commission have all agreed on the need to replace this. The Commission will adopt a Regulation setting out the terms and criteria set out in this Code. In fact, it is necessary to do so because a number of concepts in the Code Proposal are too extensive. For example. It says it's forbidden, inappropriate and messy dress at the sessions. And so as not to define this code, the Commission will adopt a regulation that will define what is inappropriate and messy dress. Among other things, I believe, and again, we had one consensus at the Commission's session, if I may say so, that jeans in the Assembly Hall were not appropriate clothing, but we have regular MPs coming, I have already said I have never seen delegates in the House of Peoples but I have seen MPs in jeans at the meetings of the Assembly, it is not fine and it should be defined. It is also necessary to define more precisely the terms and criteria in order for the Commission to implement, if adopted, a uniform and fair procedure and apply uniforms and fair criteria in accordance with this Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8530	Thank you very much. Debate, representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8531	Thank you. 99 I mean, here's the second time I've talked about the Rules of Procedure even though it was first adopted in 2008 and we thought we'd solved the question of the code. Then in a... way that code disappeared even though it was published, we have all the evidence that we did one job but he never showed up in practice. Afterwards, we said it was some kind of lack of an implementing act. So how were we supposed to make a Rules of Procedure without knowing how he was going to play out? It's a congregation bonton. He should resolve the issue of possible irregularities of the Rules of Procedure, and also introduce the order of the parliamentary benches so that what happens sometimes happens to us does not happen. There are not many parliaments arranged and it means that it is not easy to reach the Rules of Procedure. We, it seems to me somewhere in 2007 was a good try when the CCI (?) made a good material that could serve MPs to make a good Rules of Procedure. We didn't pay attention then, we didn't ask for the help of this OSCE who could also significantly help us on this plan, and then we decided to do the job within a joint commission, and that's not the job of MPs, and that's hard to come out of it. Now I'm looking at what's in relation to it, so 26 members was an old law, this new one has 33, it means 7 more, but it's so inaccurate and it's so short of systematicity, it's immediately suspected that it wasn't in the legislative and legal sector that it should have looked at, because it's visible to us more and more acts are coming back with such terrible remarks of language, legal, it's obvious that it wasn't enough for lawyers who could turn their attention, that on some members' names, I'll say it later. So, I think this code should be returned to the Commission. I couldn't make amendments because the number of amendments would be so big that it would be bigger than the number of members of the law. Well, then what do we get? But let's say I singled out a few things, just to mention a few. The first-degree body is, therefore, the Joint Committee on Human Rights which decides, although it does not say it anywhere, I now assume it decides when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, in the way it is decided in the joint committees. It's a second-degree organ, although it doesn't say "college." Only representatives of the position are sitting in the College. Does this mean that all opposition MPs will be more often and more sanctioned than positions because they will have their representatives in this first row? So it's not good for the College to be the one to make decisions in the second degree. More complicated is the question of what if the chairman or the one who heads the House session, he himself gives a measure to an MP, which means that in the Joint College, which means who brings a definitive position on it, should be exempt because he is interested in not being able to participate in the work? So it's a serious problem if it makes it a college. And I suggest, I think it would be good, it would be good to determine that this should be done by an administrative committee that has the same decision in the same way because both representatives of the position and the opposition are present and we have equal treatment for all of us sitting there. The second question, the way that Mr. Damir Arnaut was just talking about it, I can't believe someone could have suggested to close or disable the opposition action. That I am, so if the journalists call me, I am obliged first to state the positions that the position has concluded and the decisions it has made, and only if it asks me what my private position is, I am not here privately, I am elected here and I am obliged to represent certain political views that belong to the political party from which I come. So, I can't express my private political views when I express my opinion, because if anyone hears that, they'll file a report and sanction me. It's a shut-down of parliamentaryism by the Rules of Procedure. Why would it have to be done, I'd really like to know what the motives are. Furthermore, when it comes to punishment, next to the one that is not publicly meant by one that is a reminder of this species and one that is public and monetary punishment. Now imagine the fines. Well, before the law, this is some kind of our law, we should all be equal, so an MP who is in a constant 100 working relationship, he sanctioned 70% of the pause, and an MP who is not in a permanent working relationship who gets an extra to full amount, so the Parliamentary Assembly pays all MPs who are not in a permanent working relationship to pay the amount as if they were in constant terms, by punishing him by punishing 10% of the total salary receipts plus the flat-rate. So is that okay? For the same sanction, we must be sanctioned. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8532	I'm hot.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8533	Here, I don't have time to say how many objections there are and these are serious remarks of a particular legal nature, the way members are appointed, especially, it's obvious that few lawyers have looked at it. I ask you to allow it to return to the Commission and try again at a forum to discuss it again before it is definitely adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8534	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8535	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. With the agreement, and most of what fellow Arnaut was talking about, I will draw attention to several members of this adjective. So the first member to regulate the subject of the code of conduct is said to establish ethical principles and standards of conduct to be followed by MPs and delegates. And then it's said in Article 10 that some others have to follow these rules of conduct, so here's how we're still witnesses of this previous point, that there are other communication participants, and I think we should say in some way that those mentioned in Article 10 are also included. So those who are guests, who even appear in this space that some standards of conduct commit them, so they would be good, here in Article 1. I think, quote. Member, I'm sorry, this is the Article 10, which, uh, personally in Article 14, is not clear to me that it is possible to say that it is coloquial to me, but it says - MPs and delegates will not perform duties that involve supervision of the elected official's own duty. I don't understand. It's probably my fault that I don't understand, if everyone else understands. Well then Article 18 questions, that's Section 2. - an unwarranted request to the public. MPs and delegates will explain in detail the reasons for each decision they make and state all facorases in particular the rules and regulations on which the decision is based and so on, is that individual responsibility and obligation? Well, I'm being asked as a question. One, I think it's even more important than that, is Article 21, that's Section 3. - The Joint Commission is obliged to keep records. I think it'd be better to say, it's bound to record or something, or otherwise, so to nazi, register, because I kind of need to regulate who, when, what. There's got to be some kind of special procedure, it kind of sounds sharp on this record, so someone's gonna be keeping a sharp eye on who's what, what's in the patterns. Maybe the register, I don't know what the answer is, but my records here didn't fit in somehow. 101 Article 22 - Major violations of the code, under the point of g). says – pointing out bias, it was mostly said by fellow Arnaut. You can be biased if you're positive somewhere, then it's unclear how that kind of bias would be to someone else's side, and yet if you're going to criticise or if you won't like it then it's a logical phenomenon. And point k). - the performance of duties which involve supervision of their own duties. Again I don't understand, probably others understand, so someone will explain to me if I'm the only one who doesn't understand it. Finally, Article 30, in all these texts, is legally repeated by one member who regulates gender equality, and each time he is somehow misrepresented. It's about grammatical gender, the equality of use of grammatical gender. The grammatical line is also this chair that is female and this table that is male, so grammatically, this is about natural gender, I would kind of crossover it, and I'd say maybe the terms that are in the code, at least I'm relying on this, and in some other places I'm correcting it, so that those unique rules can mean because they also say that gender equality is necessary. So it might be roughly the expressions expressed in the code in men's natural gender, because it's a natural race, they refer equally to both genders, or they involve both sexes, somehow different to suggest this is not to be a grammatical genus. The grammar of this relationship is one thing and the stork is natural. Thank you. Well, that's more of a suggestion if we can fix something here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8536	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8537	Chairman of the House, Mrs. Krišto has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8538	Thank you very much. And here I was listening very carefully, in fact, to all those who appeared on this agenda point, of course interested in seeing how we got to this code, so I saw that the Human Rights Committee unanimously established this proposal code. After that today while we are at the session and we are considering and, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have received at this time 16 amendments. The amendments were made by even members of the Committee, so those who supported this proposal. I have come out for only one reason to ask everyone to give up this moment of debate, to make these amendments because the code has 33 articles only and we have 16 amendments, that these and all the other amendments that MPs want to make, to deliver them to this Committee to be considered by the Commission and to deliver them to me today mean nothing to me, because the code is something that Parliament needs to have as well as any other parliament, but there should be a code that we will implement and who we will adhere to and who, of course, will be in the interest of this legislative body above all. Thank you very much, here. So you're agreeing to put me to a vote. At this point, let's vote for this proposal. With 29 votes in favour, means 1 vote against, 1 abstention, I find that we have adopted the proposal, so I have no abstentions, with entity support. So, this proposal has been adopted, all these amendments and proposals by MPs to be submitted to the Committee on Human Rights in order for the Committee to be manifested on these amendments and delivered to us means both its position and ultimately this 102-code and to be at the next session. Let's say within 10 days that it will be, that the commission is manifested to us. Thank you very much. 17:21:13 17:21:13... I'd like to ask all of these who have come forward for the debate to sort of give up, and at this point we're going to move on to point 10. Ad.10. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02,01/1,02/1-08-861/15, dated 30.06.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8543	However, it would be good if the Vice-President of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, but here we see that the Commission did not accept the report on the work of the Independent Committee for 2014 and that is the key point. What's the reason for that? Well, the reason is political. Because, it would be, the Joint Commission would be right with such a decision provided that the Independent Committee did not also adopt the Report. But it is. So, the decision-making session of the Independent Committee requires that the proposal must be voted on, so they should vote to pass, from two peoples to three representatives, as many as there are in the Independent Committee and one from a third nation. And so it was. So, from 9, 7 voted for... I tried to get information at the session, which was not fulfilled by the Independent Committee, which are obligations that are not fulfilled. Most often it is mentioned that he did not hold sessions every month, and we saw that he, for some time, used to hold a session twice a month, and then he happened to visit police agencies and analyzed their work. And in his work so far, except that he didn't accept that political, different political maneuvers accept that political engagement is the way they work, and they didn't accept it as a Committee, they got the opinion they got. And that means that Parliament, its Commission, is directly involved in the political action to stop this Committee's work, because that means that when you don't adopt a report, and before that means that an independent body has only done so, it means that you should change the members of the Independent Committee, which, by the way, are elected at the end of the previous term. So, what I'm saying is that we didn't just happen to choose the Independent Committee. In a way, it is nevertheless an attempt to remove political influence from the one body that needs to be and whose task is to elect directors and deputy directors of police agencies. As far as we're going to be wrong, we'll see for ourselves, if we are. Did Parliament actually accept to be through political influences in the future, put these people in place, and thus act. So, I think that the president of the Committee himself and the members of the Committee have shown a dose of expertise, knowledge and that this is how these bodies should work, because otherwise, the Independent Committee no longer makes sense. If it will be brought solely on the basis of the political influence of the Council of Minsitarians, then that means that with each meeting of ministers, we will have a new Independent Committee, which means the end of the independence of police agencies. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8544	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? I don't see any reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 13. _____________(?) 104 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Point 13. Ad.13. A report with a workshop on the subject: "The Legislative Framework, Current Status and Plans of BiH Institutions in the field of defence and security", with a proposal for conclusions, materials of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 01.02,03/1-50-3-687/15, of 26.08.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8547	The Honorable Chairman, I didn't sign up for... The last one, I pressed the key several times, but then you didn't see it, it didn't show up, then my colleagues reacted a little bit, and then my name was left behind. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] Something happened and it's like helem is hers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8548	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? I don't see anyone reported on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate on the 13th item of the agenda. Moving to point 14. Ad.14. Proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the adoption and integration of bh citizens returning to BiH on the basis of a readmission agreement and a proposal for an action plan for the period 2015-2018, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 03,01,02-41-1049/15, of 23.07.2015. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees delivered the proposed strategy in the procedure on 23 July 2015. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for Human Rights responsible for its consideration. The Commission submitted its opinion on 15.09.2015. The proposal for a strategy has been accepted. 105 I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15. Ad.15. Proposal for a resolution on the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Zaim Backović, issue: 01-02-12-1128/15, of 25.08.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8551	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the proposer of the point should get his word and say why, how, in what way and what it is. Please, that's right, 20 minutes. It's the Rules of Procedure. This isn't a discussion. So I refer to the proposed agenda. Not wanting at the moment when we come to the correct definition of BiH's borders in relation to neighbours, to create no confusion, but rather, to open the space for those working on this issue to understand that they must behave as well as those we need and must finally define the living space of the BiH citizens through the full and full definition of the borders of BiH. We have very strange decisions in our congregations, in our parliaments, or whatever you want us to call them, the largest legislative bodies of our neighbours. It is very interesting that all three neighbours, in the decisions of the parliaments, say and mention the AVNOJ border. So, decisions by the Republika Srpska Assembly, when it comes to demarcation with Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH and Croatia, AVNOJ's borders said. The Decision of the Republic of Croatia's Parliament also distinguishes with Serbia, BiH, Montenegro and Slovenia says the AVNOJ border, and right now there is a catch for the Piran Bay. We also have the same thing in the Parliament Decision in Podgorica, or Montenegro, by having made an amendment to the Decision, the amendment to the Decision, the amendment to the Decision, and, in that Decision, the addition is now mentioned by the state of Kosovo, the Republic of Kosovo. It wasn't in the original decision before. When it comes to defining the BiH Constitution, it is said very precisely that this is what is inherited from the Berlin Congress through AVNOJ. Also, those who do so obviously do not want to know and do not want to know that books have long since come out that have defined what BiH's living space is and has nothing to do with the time we are talking about. Please ______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll show the cameras how not to show it. Long ago defined and long before what we're talking about, with a handful of historical documents, etc. and finally to AVNOY. I only refer here to the codex and what we have sworn - respect for the BiH Constitution, with full respect for it. And I'm not asking for anything but for us as responsible persons in this resolution to behave ourselves, I suggest, as we are. The BiH guards and nothing else. Remember, the president of the BiH presidency signed a full border definition agreement with the president of the Republic of Croatia. But that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, if it hadn't ratified it, had asked it to be re-accessed
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8553	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8554	I'm explaining the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8555	All discussions are limited, we don't make precedents. That's what we had in law enforcement, but you have your right to debate. If you want, sign up for a hearing, you have five minutes left.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8556	Okay, I'll sign up for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8557	Here you are, MP Zaim Backović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8558	I'll pick up where I left off. So the Republic of Croatia has not ratified the agreement signed by the president of the BiH presidency and the president of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, they demand to be revised and to be redefined. It's clear why. We have a problem with the Željava that's huge, we have a U.N., and you're familiar with the Školjem, so I'm not going any further into that microspace. The situation with Serbia is similar. In some parts deep in the area, in the territory of BiH's overseas territory, which is defined by the AVNOJ borders, BiH is not. And we should possibly say tomorrow that, we agree, forgetting that today between the Federal Republic of Germany and Belgium where the capital of the EU is Brussels, is a 14-metre dispute, where there is a Meljnik of demarcation between the Federal Republic of Germany and Belgium. Yes, and today we have a dispute between France and Spain, and a connection to the space for the space of demarcation at the site of that small state and its surroundings, Andorra. That Španija and Portugal have never fully defined their borders. It's about islands, overseas and so on. In particular, Gilbaltar is discriminatory. ___________(?) And British-Spanish. [[no microphone turned on]] Spanish, yes. No, no, especially britansko-španski-Spanish, at Gilbartar I said that now. And I could talk about it right now for three hours, because anyone who's well-intentioned, everything I'm talking about, finds slowly on these satan boxes today, here's what Bojić is looking at, these 107 Internets. In a moment we find all this, all the decisions that have been made. So don't forget that the Republic of Romania has retreated within its territory by returning to Ukraine, which is almost the size of BiH, BiH because it is something that is internationally and just defined by that Berlin Congress, yes. So this resolution is just an invitation to our conscience that each of us should keep an eye on that we took an oath, took an oath to the Constitution of this state, and respect it when it comes to the borders, the Constitution of this country and nothing else. Thank you. ♪ I'm so sorry ♪ ♪ I'm so sorry ♪ ♪ I'm so sorry ♪
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8560	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? I don't see any more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22 July 2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the Proposal for a Law on the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative." The House College has appointed a constitutional committee responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15/09/2015. The commission didn't support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8562	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, as you have cited the text of this initiative has been proposed since July of the month, and here, in mid-September today it is on the agenda of the House of Representatives. I really think that the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary, especially the state level, should be spoken here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that it is the right and only relevant place to talk about it. Not to talk about the state justice system in entities, at lower levels of organization, not in cafes, by motels, not in Brussels with individual ministers who have left without even asking the authorities that represent and have come before them, what are their views. So the federal minister and this state minister in charge of this portfolio went there without any consultation, let alone the position of one and the other government, etc. So there is no dilemma that this is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this needs to be made very clear today. That this is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 108, we have proved it in previous years. You know that people rightly, knowing what is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean the SNSD and SDS MPs here two, three years ago have proposed a law on the abolition of the Court and the Law on the abolition of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. What they suggested, of course, wasn't good for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they're right, this is the place. If it's possible for the Court and the D.A. to end you're right here, it's only possible to do here and nowhere else. Of course, it is not disputed that we have problems in the bh judiciary, and when I say so, I want to call on the parliamentary majority, it is almost a year of a new assembly, and the parliamentary majority could, particularly through the Council of Ministers, issue with a package of laws or amendments and additions to existing laws that will solve certain problems. As in other areas, we have received nothing from either the parliamentary majority or the BiH Council of Ministers. Therefore, even in such a situation, they get even more relevant suggestions coming from certain MPs that at least this way we open and update certain issues. As far as I'm concerned, I think that the BiH Supreme Court and the formation of the Supreme Court of BiH have no alternative, it will happen sooner or later. It's something that's like that license plate from 20 years ago, and it was someone's vital interest here in this building. Everyone's laughing today. Could it have been that way in that moment? It takes us a lot longer than civilized countries to come up with some perfectly normal and natural things. The normal thing is that Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to the European legal circle, that in this legal round of states everyone has a Supreme Court. Why wouldn't Bosnia and Herzegovina have one? All of us international officials, from the Venice Commission, etc. They say that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs such a thing, all European officials in many correspondence say it is impossible to go into European integration or that it is extremely difficult without one Supreme Court. I repeat, that is also what I said at the Commission, it is ultimately not so important whether this court is called the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court, it is important what its powers and competences are. So Bosnia and Herzegovina definitely needs the BiH Supreme Court. And today, I call on my colleagues to support such an initiative, to express our position as MPs in this civil House who have spoken to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to send a message to international officials that this state has legally elected authorities, including legislative authorities and that without these legislative authorities there is no reform. So, on bh justice, speak within the legally elected state bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I call on my colleagues to support this one attitude and this kind of initiative, and I am glad, here is that my colleague Sarajlić at least verbally said that he would do a little review of the views, so there will be support on his part, too, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8563	Thank you very much. Debate, Damir Arnaut MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8564	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Bećirović's initiative is to refer the Council of Ministers to the initiative to deliver within six months the proposal for a law on the Supreme Court of BiH. When it comes to the very essence, therefore, the Supreme Court of BiH, it is absolutely clear that the BiH Supreme Court needs Bosnia and Herzegovina and 109 for the sake of legal certainty, legal equality, full respect for human rights, full implementation of the rules and ultimately for the sake of the EU. However, what I said on the Constitutional Commission is your initiative to refer to the Council of Ministers. And as I said at the Constitutional Commission session, I simply don't believe that the Council of Ministers, the current council, is also referring to the College,... so this Council of Ministers meeting has no capacity to deliver such a bill in parliamentary procedure. They have proven this by their actions since the moment they were established. So, the initiative to be asked by the Council of Ministers asks the current Council of Ministers to deliver this extensive matter to the parliamentary procedure I am convinced that the current Council of Ministers' meeting does not have that capacity. And we have, Madam Chairman, I will be very happy to wait for Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Bosić to finish, so I will continue my presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8565	Please just continue, the College quietly agrees some views around the point, so, don't run the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8566	Thank you. We have a situation here, indeed one absurd situation that three Justice Ministers, two entity and one citizen went to Brussels and there some protocol was signed, and then SDA and the DF who are members of the Council of Ministers, eventually the SDA has a chairman of the Council of Ministers, issued a statement that they are not behind it. The chairman of the SDA Council of Ministers, therefore, does not know what his minister was doing in Brussels. So here I'm talking about the essential issues of how this country works. So that's the Council of Ministers you want to refer this initiative to. So, to be clear -- absolutely an initiative, in essence, the Supreme Court needs Bosnia and Herzegovina, and ask the current Council of Ministers' call, as your initiative says, to do so within six months, I believe, I believe they are unable to do so. And here it shows you, so that the party from which the prime minister comes from, the chairman of the Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić, can issue a statement that they are not behind it and his minister signed it in Brussels. So, what are we talking about, which is the ruling coalition, what kind of Council of Ministers, is that of the Council of Ministers who doesn't know what his minister is doing. So how will within six months prepare such an extensive thing when he delivers us here officially, the same Council of Ministers, of which you are asking him to deliver such a thing within six months, officially delivers six pages of the agenda to you and writes to three places the Hercegbossan Canton which is '97. The Constitutional Court of the Federation declared, that is, the name he declared unconstitutional, and then came here and said - there, a mistake. So how will the same chairman of the Council of Ministers deliver the Supreme Court Act? That I'm wasting my time looking for mistakes in his bill. That's unfortunately, I hope you understand me, so I'm not talking about the essence, the essence is very good, I congratulate you on the essence, we need the Supreme Court of BiH, but unfortunately so it happened to us that there was an actual council meeting of ministers who absolutely couldn't do such a thing, which they proved by the number of laws, the bill proposals they've delivered in the last six months and one of the most ordinary reform agendas where three mistakes on six pages have made, that I'm not talking now about errors in... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8567	Thank you very much. Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8568	Well, it is a replica, I just don't know there's going to be a replica in what I'm about to tell my colleague Arnaut. So the first thing is that you don't have any dilemma that the idea is good, that it's well explained and that it needs Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there's no dilemma. You have a dilemma about whether those who need to do this have that capacity. And you and I have nothing to do with this Council of Ministers, and when we elected him, we didn't vote for the Council of Ministers, but you will admit, colleague Arnaut, there is no other Council of Ministers. As it is, it is necessary to try to extract from the Council of Ministers what is best, there is no other, there is therefore no other Council of Ministers. So I suggest you still support this initiative and let's see on another test by the Council of Ministers, whether there is strength and capacity, will, to start certain things...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8569	Thank you very much. At this point, Dnis Bećirović, is it a mistake?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8570	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8571	Wrong. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 17, Ad. 17. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club The proposal for a decision was submitted in procedure 14/09/2015. At the meetings of the College and the Enlarged College, held yesterday, it was decided that the proposal for a decision should be included in the agenda of the House. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 18, Ad. 18. Proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and on the learning of mother tongues throughout BiH" 111
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8574	Very short. Unlike counterpart Ahmetović, I have stood up to say that I support this proposal on the agenda, I will support any proposal for a conclusion that my colleague Ahmetović proposes. According to his discussion today, I believe he's on to some solution, is it, this question? So here you have the full support of both my and the SDP Club to resolve this issue if possible. I am today the way you told your colleague Ahmetović about it for the cameras, here you are today without cameras, even though there is a camera again, to resolve it. So you have full support for this really important issue right now to resolve.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8575	Thank you very much. Debate, Sadik Ahmetović. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8576	I didn't think I was saying anything regardless of what I'm proposing this conclusion because I think it would be good or I invite MPs in this House to support this conclusion to get information, so from the Council of Ministers - what is the situation in this area throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all those interested in whether the national group of objects and native languages are being studied both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska. So I can't say any further, I don't want to open up these current issues that you all know about, but I would ask you to get one such information from the Council of Ministers, and the prerequisite for that is to vote for this conclusion. And after that, when that information's on our desks, let's figure it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8577	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8578	Well, here, I'll try to be brief. So this is just an initiative to get one piece of information, which I'm not against at all, but you have a chance, so you can solve this question before you get that information if you support today's law on an urgent procedure that is exactly solving all these questions that you're looking for an answer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8579	Thank you very much. Replica, representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8580	I refer the replica to Mr Lovrinović and as information from fellow Members Ahmetović that by supporting the Law, or amending the laws proposed by Mr Lovrinović, we will not solve the question that you are talking about here, because it is the law that regulates the question of where all constituent peoples are given the opportunity to study their native language. And the proposal submitted by Mr Lovrinović leads to further segregation, discrimination, even where it could be measured to ask the question, says Mr Lovrinović that the Cyrillic is a letter from the Serb people and a Latin of Bosniaks and Croats. Historically, Cyrillic is older than Latin, even the name of Bosnian Cyrillic - Bosnian. So this is where you even mention the coat of arms of the constituent peoples. Which are the coat of arms, please introduce us, the constituent peoples. So, here's a colleague just to let you know that if you decide or hesitate to support this bill, you will not solve this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8581	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Lovrinović. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8582	...constitutive peoples and I would ask you to give an example of discrimination and further segregation from what I have suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8583	Thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8584	I once again want to deepen, so here is one opposition political party that will give full support to this map times to address this important issue. I expected the truth would now be a proposal for some concrete moves and measures, but here, we need to get information about something that we all see and that this is already a long series. So, you'll have full support, here's one opposition club, in this case, the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8585	Thank you very much. Debate, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8586	I'm sorry, it was a replica. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8587	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8588	I thank the chairman. I'll let you know, Mr. Lovrinović. Here in Article 2 you lower existing levels at the school administration, means that the school itself by its statute or regulation means more consent from the Ministry of Education of Canton or County, irrelevantly, where an arbitrary or politically installed director will decide on 5 or 7%, how many children there are, as if they are lego cubes. You put the kids down here on those little men from the lego cubes so you count them in some percentages. This, on the other hand, is the segregation that you are absolutely giving your proposal the legitimacy of schools “two schools under one roof”. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8589	Thank you. Replica, representative of Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8590	So in my replica, I will say to my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, that I must congratulate my colleague, Club President Lovrinović, because no one has united this Parliament long ago as a colleague of Lovrinović with his bill proposal. I'm not really an education expert, and I'm not going to get into the metrics, but if the law is the same thought by those who otherwise think of this matter, the diametric opposite probably has some potential in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8591	Thank you very much. Replica, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8592	So what you were saying about what the school principal was supposed to do was you watched separately, so it's just a change. When you look at the whole of the Law, it does not appear that way because the school plan and programme, language and everything else, is approved by the Minister Resorni and, based on what the Minister has approved, the Director can choose. So you're looking at it separately. And segregation and discrimination, so you were talking about kids, these are, you didn't say what segregation and discrimination is. I don't know what you're thinking, who's segregated, which is why children are segregated if they choose language and the teaching process on which they want, therefore, their parents in elementary schools. I didn't understand anything, but it doesn't matter, we'll have a chance to talk about it. So, the director only chooses when it's approved by the authorized ministry, and not, so he does what he wants.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8593	Thank you very much. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. 114 We move to points from 19 to 25. Before we cross, I suggest that this House be made known to the unify of the debate on the item from the 19th to the 25th agenda, because it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Vote. I find that, with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have adopted this proposal to bring the debate together according to points 19 to 25. Ad. 19. Ad. 25. Granting consent to ratify the agreement Now I want to say that the opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs is an integral part of this material and that material you have obtained. I'm opening a debate on points 19 to 25. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8595	I, the chairman, apologize, but I'd like to ask if there is anyone present here, but obviously there is no, that at least two agreements explain a little bit if possible. But since there is no one I know about, I would like someone to explain this Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Inja Fiscalis 2020 programme and explain to us some agreement on the cross-border cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. So, let someone clarify that about this. If there's no one else, then I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8596	Thank you very much for your representative. At this point, we have no one from the Council of Ministers to give us answers to these questions, for these two agreements. I don't see any more reports at this point. Finalising debate on points 19 to 25. It's 6:00 p.m. sharp. I'm taking a break or a break, whatever you want, from 20 minutes. I'll see you here at the vote in 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8598	We can go with the vote. First item – The adoption of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Let's vote on the adoption of the minutes with the remarks made by MP Nikola Lovrinović. Let's vote now. With 35 votes for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the minutes of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Moving to point 3. - The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. So he's voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Vote now. With 24 votes in, 3 against, [[Common discussion]] We'll do it again. Vote now. With 27 votes for, 5 against, 6 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've adopted an emergency procedure request. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone, Agent Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8600	I'm really sorry, they're late, but I'd just like to ask that this part of the discussion, if it can, be submitted to the Ministry when it's working on the model of the method of accounting, is this, after the adoption of this whether the law is in the model of the method of calculating the transportation fee. I mean, I don't know how familiar you are, but the people who work in our bodies, who live 80 miles, don't have the right to transport. So, I would, I think it's pure discrimination, but if I didn't elaborate it here right now, I would ask that these sentences from the record be sent to the Ministry when it's doing this model, to think about it, a different way of accounting for transportation fees, because people who are 81 kilometers without a right to transport, so I can't even report on, for working in state bodies, or institutions. So I'd like them to see what I can do. So I'm talking about the model, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8601	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate under the bill and I'm putting the bill to the vote. 116 Vote now. With 34 votes for, without votes against, with four abstentions, with a sufficient ethnic majority. I agree that we adopted the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. Moving to point 4. – The request of MP Nikola Lovrinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure, now. With three votes in favour, 34 votes against, one vote abstention. I find that we haven't passed the bill by emergency procedure, we don't have a general majority. So we are now going to vote that this Law is being considered in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure, i.e. We're voting on a shortened procedure. Vote now. With 3 votes against, 35 votes against, without abstentions, there is not enough entity majority. I find that we have not passed the bill by a brief procedure, I find that this law goes into regular procedure. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, with correction of the technical error in the Bill proposal. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law in a second reading with two amendments contained in the Report of the Committee on Finance and Budget, which have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Let's vote now. _________(?) It's a vote again, if that's all right. We repeat the vote. Let's vote now. With 34 votes for, 3 votes against, 2 votes abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions. We're moving on to point six. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Let's vote now. With 39 votes in favour, without votes against and without votes abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. So I'm saying that we passed the bill on supplementing the Covering Act. 117 We move to point 7. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Let's vote now. With 24 votes for, 14 against, 1 abstention, there is not enough entity majority from the RS. Do we want a match? I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8610	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8611	We have consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8612	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8613	Now. We vote in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8614	Later, later
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-16-0.u8615	Afterwards, we vote in the second round later after the consent. Moving to point 17. – Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of interparliamentary friendship groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: representatives from the DF Club. We're voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision. Let's vote now. With 31 votes for, without votes against, 8 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries – promoters: representatives from the DF Club. Moving to point 18. – Proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and on the learning of mother tongues throughout BiH territory". We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. Let's vote now. With 27 votes against, 6 against, 6 abstentions, we don't have an entity majority from the RS entity. Shall we? Later, okay. We move to paragraphs 19 and 25, before we vote on the proposal to declare ourselves jointly, or in the package by points 19 to 25. Let's vote now. With 34 votes for, 2 against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. 121 I agree that we have accepted the proposal to vote on granting consent at points 19 to 25. And now I am voting – Giving consent to ratifying material at points 19 to 25. Let's vote now. With 37 votes for, without votes against, with enough, an entity majority. I find that we have given consent to ratifying material from points 19 through 25. I'm closing the 17th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned on 7 October 2015 and I thank everyone for the constructive work. Because, until you split up, it's 24. Kurban-Bajram, this time I want to congratulate all those who celebrate this holiday and wish them every good. Thank you very much. Session completed 6:50 a.m.
