ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1014	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the BiH institutions' audit office whose reports are on the agenda today, and representatives of the media, and all of you, of course, welcome. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people, and delegate Fahrudin Radončić has been prevented from attending the session for justified reasons. As indicated in the invitation to the session, and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that along with the invitation to the 11th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure for Asking Delegative Questions in Oral Form were sent by: delegate Mario Karamatić – to the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH at the Council of Ministers, Mr Slavko Matanović; delegate Martin Raguž – to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations at the Council of Ministers, Mr Mirko Šarović; delegate Zdenko Džambas – to the Minister for Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of BiH, Mrs Semiha Borovac and delegate Dragutin Rodić – to the Council of Ministers as a whole, more specifically for the chairman unless any of the ministers present were ready to answer this question. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure of this announcement were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers on which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, which is also in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. 2 Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers, so I give the word to delegate Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1015	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honored members of the College, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address my envoy's question to distinguished Minister Slavko Matanović, Minister of Transport and Communications of BiH. Namely, what prompted me to ask this question? These days I was part of an election campaign in the Republic of Croatia, so I remembered some other times when voters were driving across the border by buses to vote and so on. To cross the border from one country to another, you need CEMT permits, both for buses and for trucks, for the transport of passengers, goods and services. And since I have a lot of friends who have transport companies, meaning for goods and services, my question refers specifically to the distribution of CEMT licenses for 2016. In fact, although I thought that the CEMT distribution of licenses at the Ministry of Transport ended with judgments made, it seems that there are still dilemmas in the Ministry of Transport that create legal uncertainty among the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the transporter. By the knowledge that I have, I have learned that, Mr. Matanović, you, as Minister, have issued a public call for the distribution of CEMT license, which was withdrawn after a week and another public ad has been published. Also, according to information available to me, the CEMT licenses have grown every year from about 5%, meaning that society is developing, as we move towards the EU, so by 5%, the number of CEMT licenses has increased, and for 2016, the same number is foreseen, i.e. 1,300 as many as there were for 2015. This is about 65 CEMT licenses. What I am interested in, these 65 CEMT permits is enough for the operation of 30 small and medium-sized transport companies, so I am interested specifically in you telling me and the public – which is why you changed the text of the Public Ad, under number one. And under number two, where does anyone have the right to stop 30 companies from doing business? Mr. Matanović, I would like you to give me an answer on the exact number of CEMT permits for this year, which are planned for 2016, and to answer me if you are willing to conduct administrative proceedings in your ministry, to find out who is responsible for the fact that 30 companies are left without bread and will not be able to keep their workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1016	Thank you, too. So, the reminders to avoid any confusion over the previous Joint Session of both homes, our time to ask questions is 2 minutes not 3 and 2 minutes belongs to the answer to the one to which the question is asked, and the right to the replica is also up to one minute. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Time can be monitored on screens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1017	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the College, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. On 08.10.2015, the Ministry of Communications and Transport published a text of explanations on the launch of the CEMT authorisation procedure and bilateral annual licences for France, Belgium and the Netherlands for 2016. Previously published at the end of September 2015, reactions were received by both the authorities of the administration and associations of carriers with certain requirements and suggestions in order to complete the text of the notice. After 3 careful and detailed analyses of the proposals submitted in order to relieve the administrative part of the procedure for the implementation of the distribution procedure by the published notification, the deficiencies detected were removed, as we expect to improve the CEMT distribution system and annual bilateral licences for 2016 as a whole. It is important to stress that the procedure for the distribution of CEMT licences from the day of the call for the public so far has not been compromised, the deadlines have not been breached, the distribution process is not delayed, and the current commission is working on the implementation of technical data processing. It is important to note that no comments have been received since 08.10. Optimising the relationship between the number of licences for ECO-5 and ECO-6 trucks in the adoption of applications for a total number of licences sought to evenly distribute licences to both the newer and the older generation trucks owned by most of the carriers. The Ministry has cared that autocarers must be actively involved in the decision-making process concerning the distribution of CEMT licences whose requirement is also respected when determining the number of licences for vehicles characteristics of ECO-5 versus ECO-6 and determining the total number of licences. It's the only way for the administration to be at the service of the economy in the fullest sense of that word. The ministry was obliged to carry out formalities on the determination of the total number of CEMT permits by September 3rd, and to report to the Paris-based International Transport Forum Secretariat. The base quota remained the same for BiH as last year. Limited time does not allow us, and it is unnecessary to bother you and this House by entering technical details and explaining the system of conversion of the base quota, when formulating the requirement went from the principle that the total number of CEMT permits should be optimised and so that they are not placed in an unequal position of carriers that have trucks of the older generation ECO-5. The key is optimizing, not maximizing. If you would like to maximise the number of permits you can also get 1.548 licenses compared to the 1,300 we now have, however, that would mean that only vehicles of the ECO-6 generation would get licenses, which would make the vast majority of car drivers, and all those who have ECO-5 trucks, are thrown out of distribution. It is important to note here that eco-6 licenses can only be used by EKO-6 vehicles and that ECO-5 licences can be used both. So, the EKO-6 license truck can also drive with an EKO-5, characteristics can also drive with an EKO-5 license.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1018	Mr. Minister, time limits you, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1019	And just to say... that the transition from one country to another is not, you don't need a CEMT license, CEMT licenses are used to transport, when more countries are involved in the transport to transition from one country to another and return are sufficient bilateral permits. And secondly, the finding that 30 companies will lose their license is not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1020	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The minister used a little bit more time because he also used a respected delegate, but we're not going to practice it. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić, your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1021	Obviously I was right, says the base quota remained the same, so the license number didn't increase. The explanation that the number of permits could have been increased by trucks with an ECO-6 but 'that now EKO-6 trucks can use and EKO-5 licenses are insane, according to me. I'm absolutely not happy with the answer. I expect it in writing, and I would ask you to give me a very clear answer in your written reply – are you ready to implement within the Ministry the process of determining the responsibility of whoever is responsible for leaving people without income, without work and what companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina will fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1022	Thank you too, dear colleague Karamatić. The next two minutes, he's using a distinguished delegate, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1023	Thank you. A warm greeting to all present. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Minister, or the esteemed Deputy, and concerns milk and dairy products and the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has recently been able to export these products to the EU market. Are there any first judgments of these effects, and decisions and options, given the fact that, according to the data that I have been investigating, which are available to the public, only in the last three years, twice as much imports of milk and milk products as Bosnia and Herzegovina is exporting? So, this is the potential of a country that should be used and valorised and placed in the function of covering imports as much as possible with larger exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and all in the context of the fact that, according to the data we have, in the last year, the coverage of imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina is only 53% or the dramatic increase of the trade deficit, and even in those areas and branches where Bosnia and Herzegovina should actually use that possibility. And did our milk producers take advantage of that benefit provided by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade? What are the problems and priorities, if there are, and especially in this legislative sense, in terms of our representative's obligation to improve the Food Act, the Agriculture Act, this entire hygiene package? I mean, as far as I'm getting information, probably all of you, that there are certain, certain blockades and obstacles that all together should remove. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1024	I thank you, too. Mr. Minister, please be my guest, or Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1025	Thank you. Madam Presidents, gentlemen of the envoys, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. This is a very current and interesting question. I must say that yesterday's question was received at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and therefore I ask you to understand that you will receive a comprehensive, precise written reply, I suppose, very quickly, and certainly until the next session of the House of Peoples. Now, in some ways, the preliminary response would be to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the Croatian market was the main market for the export of our dairy and dairy products. Croatia's entry into the EU has put into effect the criteria set out by the EU, which, of course, our producers did not meet at that time and therefore the exports of Bosnia and Herzegovina's dairy products to the market, both Croatia and the EU, have been all but blocked recently. Veterinary and food inspection offices from Dublin in January of last year and the adoption of the Action Plan in May of this year opened the space to make a step in the area and it was made. Four dairy farmers, four milk producers from Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been given the right to export their products to the EU market, so both the Republic of Croatia and the entire EU to date, according to the data I have and possibly that they will change very quickly. This right was used by two of the four dairy farmers, and it is about Mljekara Livno and Mljekari from Kozarska Dubica. I suppose very soon, and by the end of the year, this right will also be used by "Milkos“ from Sarajevo and "Megla" from Bihac. As for the problems and challenges we face, of course, the legislative framework is necessary to change.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1026	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1027	It takes that procedure. I hope that very soon the parliamentary procedure will come up with a proposal to amend and supplement, which is new legislation in this area, it is about the laws on agriculture, nutrition and rural development – the Food and Veterinary Law. And for us, it's necessary,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1028	Time, Mr. Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1029	just to say this sentence, we need first of all to change the chain of command when it comes to the system of official controls in this area, because without that change, the next FVO inspection of the EU Food and Veterinary Office, which is expected in January or at the latest in February of next year, will probably again be rigorous and possible even to block what is now unblocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1030	I thank Deputy Minister Franjičević. Mr. Raguž, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1031	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for one thing, I would say, with a correct answer, given the shortness of time. I agree, but also the fact that they are also aware at the Ministry that the answer to this question should come in writing to the next session. Let me just say, so it's very important to say, therefore, that our producers in these new circumstances meet with very often unfair procedures and circumstances and in this context the state should do more to help them to make this transition and adaptation to these new circumstances more ready, in a way that, therefore, we just don't be a space where, therefore, more and more imports and more and less..., these are trends, so. And here, and to encourage the role of our legislators to be in the position of making this legislative package as quickly as possible, with another addition, so this is not just about the space and potential of the EU, meaning by the fact that we have that possibility, we have the possibility to export these products to a much cheaper and more rational country, both in Russia, 6 Turkey, and in some other countries. So there's supposed to be one whole strategy, but I see shifts and I see access and here, in that context, I expect we'll get... one more exhaustive answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1032	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The next two minutes are used by a distinguished delegate, a colleague of Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1033	I'd like to join you in congratulating you this is your first session and I want you to be as successful as Čolak was in the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1034	Thank you. I'll do my best and I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1035	My question was for the Ministry of Human Rights, about, or the question was, – When does the child stop being a child? It is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of the Convention on the Law of the Child, where the Article 1 states that the child is a person of up to 18 years of age. That is not the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Republika Srpska, children's rights are indeed up to 18 years old, but in the Federation they are entitled to 15 years. It was passed, the UN General Assembly in 20.12.2006 adopted the Resolution on diabetes, and I want to talk about it, and on 14.11. it was declared World Diabetes Day, so this is during this week and throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, only associations, so the mothers of diabetic children are also organizing round tables and trying to bring representatives from all levels and all those who can help alleviate the problems that these groups have. The Federation of BiH adopted the Resolution on Diabetes in 2012, but in 2010 in Article 4. The Institute for Control Checks has ruled that the upper limit for the wheel and the determination of the disability of children with diabetes is 15 years. So, up to 15 years old, a child with diabetes has a 100% disability and benefits from rights that belong to him, like other disabled, unwary people, but after being 15 years old, he loses all rights that night. I don't think a child at 15 is mature enough to just take care of himself without being diabetic. 10% of residents in Bosnia and Herzegovina have diabetes, according to which it is not a small number. The World Organisation calculated in 2011 in Bosnia and Herzegovina that a diabetic is costing the state $629. Especially if we're not paying enough attention. So I'm interested in what the Ministry of Human Affairs can do, both human rights and refugees can do, because the state is a signer and makes others respect conventions? I'm afraid it's very easy for us to approach the signing of conventions without after that taking care of what we've signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1036	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. The word has been given to the honourable minister, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go, Mrs. Borovac. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1037	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. Here, on the question of the esteemed Zdenka Džambas, I want to say that she has already answered in some way, and her question when the child stops being supported by this example from the Federation of Disrespecting the rights of the child up to 18 years old in the case of this particular, right, disease. I really appreciate this question of yours, and also the shortness of time to prepare ourselves as the Ministry to give you an answer, which is why it is so in the Federation, both the institutions in the Federation, on which they are acting, I will ask that we respond in writing until the next session. And, of course, according to the established, we will take all the measures that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Protection of the Rights of the Child requires. But I also want to say that this phenomenon so far has not been shown through the forms of reporting or in the Ministry itself as a phenomenon and a problem in the Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1038	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jambas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1039	I thank you, Minister. I will forward this written response to the associations, as I come from Central Bosnia, there is a Association of Parents of Children with Diabetes, which is so called “Sugars”, who will have their round table and representatives are invited, so I want to attend that round table and in every way help, as far as I can as I can as a representative, to correct a terrible mistake like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1040	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. The next two minutes are used by the distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1041	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 155(1) and 156(1), paragraph 1 I am asking the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the following delegation question – The 2015 Council of Ministers' Work Programme, which was adopted in May 2015, provides that the most important objective is to implement the commitments set out in the Action Plan on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the context of these obligations I am interested in, since we are already in November 2015, what is the realisation of the Work Programme on planned and implemented bill proposals, and sublegal and other normative acts, and what can be expected by the end of the year? Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1042	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word has, I suppose, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, vice chairman. You're the oldest in rank, Mr. Bevanda, you can tell the other one to answer that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1043	Here we go. Hello, everybody. Since the question has not been passed on to me, I ask for understanding, since I have a fiscal council at 12:00 and a meeting with the EU Delegation, to get the answer to this question at the next session and until then in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1044	It is businessly possible if the Council of Ministers is in such a situation, and I now call on you to say if you are satisfied with the answer which is...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1045	Well, of course, I can't be happy with the answer, uh, but I'm asking that by the next session, I get an answer to this question in writing, and I think it's going to be a real reflection of what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1046	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. I'll retati you one thing, you'd better be dissatisfied with the answer you haven't heard but the one you've heard anyway. We've exhausted this part of the agenda. Until today's session, a written response to the oral question of delegate Mario Karamatić was also submitted, set at the 9th session of the House of the Peoples of the Minister of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Slavko Matanović. Whether delegate Mario Karamatić wants to comment on the response received, if you have met his content, it is not mandatory. Please give your word to Mr. Karamatić, or turn the microphone on. Please technical service indeed yes, you must sign up Mr... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, you'll have to do the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1048	Just to clarify, that's the answer I got to the question I asked earlier in the digitization process, right? Of course I'm not happy. The Honorable Minister wrote to me in a written reply, quoting two short sentences: "Is it not true that they donated TV 9 to Republika Srpska's digitisation equipment, but that they gave it to them in possession?" How can I be satisfied with such a response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1049	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić, the transition is losing track of these concepts. Let's move on, now we're moving on to the session agenda. For the 11th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-116/15, of 07/09/2015; 3. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-117/15, of 11/09/2015; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-8/15, since 21/09/2015; 5. Proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs into conversion marks (first reading), following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-18-1/15, since 16.09.2015; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: Delegates Ognjen Tadić and Darko Babalj, Law No: 02-02-1-10/15, since 28.07.2015, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. Delegates' request: Halid Genjac, Bariša Čolak, Sredoje Nović, Dragutin Rodić, Safet Softić and Ljilja Zovko to consider Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue 02-02-4-1285/15, of 14.10.2015; 8. Report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-844/15, of 29/06/2015; 9. Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution and the International Obligations of BiH for 2014, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue 02-16-1243/15, since 29/09/2015; 10. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Energy Efficiency in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-11807/15, since 31.07.2015; 11. The appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-50-14-469-6,1/15, since 15.10.2015; 12. The appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of the BiH Institutions, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Implementation of the Appointing Procedure of the Auditor-General and the Deputy Auditor-General of the BiH Institutions' Office, number: 01,02-50-14-1060- 5,4/15, of 23.10.2015; 10 13. Appointment of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Security Agency, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Security Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-834-5/15, of 06.11.2015; 14. The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Implementation of Procedures for the designation of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption, No: 01,02-50-14-468-6,3/15, of 06.11.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2010 National Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - Part I - Water and sewerage in Republika Srpska, concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 06.11.2012 in Luxembourg and 20.11.2012 in Sarajevo, issue: 01.02-05-2-1295/15, from 12.10.2015; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Treaty (The Project of Central Heating of Predor) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska and Toplana a.d. Prijedor and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the SIDA Investment Grant – EBRD Fund for Environmental and Climate Programmes, issue: 01,02-05-2-1303/15, of 13.10.2015; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2012, number: 01,02-05-2-1304/15, of 13.10.2015; and we had the proposed point 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the name of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual travel of citizens, No: 01,02-05-2-1319/15, since 15.10.2015, but we have been informed by the Commission of foreign trade and other competences of the House of Peoples that this point was not the subject of consideration, so according to the Rules of Procedure, we do not have a condition to discuss it today. This, colleagues, is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples College. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions to the agenda? Mr. Nović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1050	Dear Chairman, I would like to congratulate you on your presidency in the next period of conviction that you will successfully and wisely lead this House to the benefit of all here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1051	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1052	At the same time, I would like to thank the current chairman, the esteemed Mr. Bariša Čolak, for the leadership of this House so far. Dear delegates, delegates, respected ministers, deputy ministers, media representatives. 11 Allow me, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Serbian People's Delegation Club to propose that today, on the agenda, a discussion be postponed for the next session of point 5. The proposal for a law on the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into conversion marks, and I propose, instead, that the House declares itself on the conclusion that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the government of the entity and the Brcko District to urgently agree on the principles of resolving the issue of credit conversion in Swiss francs, respecting the need for entities banking agencies and the Brcko District to be actively involved in resolving this issue and to come to a solution that will guarantee legal certainty on the one hand and, on the other hand, ensure the application of the law throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1053	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Is someone next answering for word? Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask the president of the club to request a break of 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1055	The word is from the chair of the Croatian People's Delegation Club, Mrs Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1056	Thank you very much. I'd like a break of 15 minutes until we have a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1057	I'm giving a 15-minute stand-off with my kolegij at the request of the club chief. [[PAUZA]] I ask all participants in today's session of the House of Peoples to take their place. Okay, we can keep working. I've been informed by the club chiefs, but if Mrs? There's no need. So, I will announce the modification of this proposal that Mr Nović spoke of on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, and we will continue to discuss this topic. Therefore, the previous proposal of the Honorable President of the Serbian People's Club has been modified by adding the first position, so that Mr Nović's proposal would be the second position of this united conclusion, and the first position would be read – the debate on item 5 of the proposed agenda will be postponed until the next session of the House of Nations. And then he would continue to read the text in the second position – the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the governments of the entity and the Brcko District to urgently agree on the principles of resolving the issue of credit conversion in the Swiss francs, respecting the need for entities banking agencies and the Brcko District to be actively involved in resolving this issue, and to come up with a solution which, on the one hand, will guarantee legal certainty and, on the other hand, ensure the application of the law throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was a concerted proposal between the club heads regarding Mr Nović's initiative on behalf of the Serbian People's Club to leave this point for the next session. We're continuing to discuss the agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? To be said, the head of the Bosniak People's Club, Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed colleague, appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1059	Thank you. You emphasized the law in terms of plural. I understand both the law in terms of unity and the law in terms of plural. Because if this Law is passed, it's the law, if there are other laws, it'll be plural. Just that we have in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1060	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Genjac. I did this on purpose, simply because the proposer himself in his Bill proposal underlines the obligation of entity banking agencies to take over certain obligations, which would be possible only if the laws in entities, which define this area, were changed in parallel. So, not according to the proposed law, at least as it was written, they would not be able to act, but again and when we finish the job, even if we adopt this Law today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the Federation of BiH would come in line as legislators who provide for the application, here I say this Law for the sake of the work of their agencies. An esteemed colleague, Mario Karamatić, appeared to correct the wrong allegations, or it is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not exactly like you said. It means Article 7. The law, which is in the procedure, is said to stand – supervision of the application of this Act is subject to entity banking agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the supervision of the Central Bank of BiH, and Article 8 of this article – sublegal acts on supervision of banks will be developed by the entity banking agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the supervision of the Central Bank in BiH within 30 days of the date of entry of this Act. So it's about one law, and it's about sublegal acts, not laws, that are supposed to be passed by entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1062	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. So, with this intervention that Mr. Karamatić is talking about, and given the way we agreed between club bosses. So, is anyone else answering for the discussion on this proposal? 13 Niko. Nothing, then, given the Rules of Procedure, it is my duty to put Mr Nović's proposal first on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, so that after that we plead and read about the agenda. I call upon you to plead. I understand that Mr Nović's proposal, expressed on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, in line with club chiefs, received 11 votes, against two delegates, was held by one delegate. Given that the Federation 6 delegates were in favour of, 2 against, 1 abstention, that all 5 delegates were in favour from the RS, I find that there is a general and entity majority. I find that we have made an amendment to the proposed agenda, so point 5 as it is proposed is not part of the agenda and exits from the agenda until the next session, and so far point 6 becomes point 5 and thus all points to the 17th point that becomes point 16. Given that there were no further proposals for amending the agenda, I find that this is how we corrected the agenda proposed by the College of the House of Peoples and that the agenda was adopted, because it is not voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1063	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1064	I have concluded to Mr Nović that your proposal for a conclusion has received the necessary majority and that this is how we resolved this previous issue on the agenda. It's been established already.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1065	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1066	We're going to work at point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate? Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the minutes from the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here you go. Regarding this item of the agenda, of the 14 delegates present – 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, RS 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm guessing the record was adopted. Moving to point two, 14 Ad. 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman, I would also like to congratulate you on taking office, members of the College, distinguished delegates, fellow MPs, members and representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives. It presents me with the hour and pleasure to appear here today as a representative of the proposing, namely the formal House of Representatives, who adopted this Law with 34 votes in favour, only 3 against and 2 abstentions. This was a painful process with a lot of delays because I proposed the law back in May. The voice of reason and social awareness, however, has prevailed so far, showing 16 and the fact that 87% of the House of Representatives supported this proposal, most of whom are rarely seen in the House. Similar support was also present on all commissions, both the House of Nations and the House of Peoples, as well as in the first reading of the House of Peoples. Meanwhile, an official confirmation by the Council of Ministers came that the law is necessary. Last year alone, namely, 3266,000 marks were paid from the State budget for commissions, committees and similar bodies. Almost all that work was during work hours. Every month the adoption of this Law has cost citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina 260,000 marks, each month, a quarter of a million marks, or close to 10,000 marks a day. We got to the final step today, maybe. I ask you to give your support in the same way as before, to finally adopt this law in the same form as the House of Representatives did. The law would take effect 8 days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH". Only those eight days will cost about 80,000 marks. Please don't add a day of unnecessary delay to that mandatory period. The proposed amendments did not receive support from the competent commission. They are very dissipating this proposal, and in the meantime a new amendment has also appeared which does not appear to be commercially or allowed because it was tabled after the debate at the Commission. The House of Representatives has all these possibilities and considered and rejected them, and I can certainly say that I speak on behalf of the House of Representatives, or the competent Commission of that House, when I say that these amendments should be rejected. Because if these amendments are accepted today, then, and I stress this for media representatives, it significantly delays the adoption of this law because in that case it is going to agree on both homes and it is possible that it will not be adopted in the end. The adoption of the amendment will delay the adoption of the law for several months minimum, and I have already said that one month costs the citizens of this country a quarter of a million marks. Citizens of this country will be particularly damaged if the amendments are adopted for trade in the Swiss law. Then he'll be at a loss when it comes to Swiss and when it comes to this law. The finance ministry delivered another opinion this morning on this bill, which is absolutely nothing different from the previous four opinions they had delivered earlier. In the light of their opposition to this Law, they have already stated for the fifth time that persons who are on the Budget are being placed in a discriminatory position compared to persons who are not on the Budget. My answer, and with their votes, this response and the House of Representatives as well as all their commissions, and this House in the first reading, have already said what they think about it. People who are not on the Budget have been discriminated against by persons who are on the Budget for too long. This law goes in the direction of resolving this discrimination, not vice versa. Thank you for your support so far, and I am really asking for your support today, so that this law will come into force by the end of the month, not after New Year's Eve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1073	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, proposing the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1074	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. Well, I'd just like to look back on Mr. Arnaut's proposal. I don't think any existing discrimination should be solved by new discrimination. I think it should be regulated that all people, all who have a basic working relationship, and participate in the work of supervisors and any 17 bodies, can not, in the same working time, make multiple payments to that same working time. Because we can't be in the same place at the same time, and two fees, two salaries to make. It's the only right thing to do. But since the legislative system is so formalised and complex that you can adopt this law today and very soon prove its inconsistency. For example. Envoys and MPs or some category in the Law will be able to accomplish something, others will not. The law as it is, there's a shortage. I just want to point out the fact that rationalization and control of public money consumption is necessary from the beginning. We must treat the public well-being of a good master, but the whole solution I represent and now I remain on it and I ask that the amendments be respected. Each amendment in its own way solves, you cannot put people who come from the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina as experts and participate in the work of some bodies. The detachment of work from labour must occur, but in one systematic and complete way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1075	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. The discussion continues. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1076	I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1077	It's my duty to take a break. A 10-minute crawl at the request of the president of the Serbian delegates' club. [[PAUZA]] Okay, I'm asking you to take our jobs. We're going back to work. Given Mrs. Zovko request on behalf of the Break Club, do you want to announce something about the time used? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1079	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1080	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1081	And you were looking for Mr. Nović. Mr. Nović, since you asked for a break, do you want to announce something about the time you used?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1082	microphone not turned on 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1083	There's no need, is there? Thank you. Okay. We continue the discussion since it is not closed. If there are no further applications for participation in the debate, I am closing this debate. First we move on to the amendment statement. We are voting on a total of 3 amendments from the delegate Ljilja Zovka. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. So, of the 14 delegates present – 5 delegates were for, against 7 delegates, 2 delegates were abstained. From Federation 5 to, 4 against, 1 abstention, from the RS no one for, against 3, 2 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that the amendments of the delegate Ljilja Zovko have not been adopted. We're going to vote now... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A moment of consultation in the College. Dear colleagues, to the intervention of members of the Croatian People's College, so we will now repeat this vote, given that there are three amendments, we will declare each amendment individually. Practice allows both, but we respect, of course, the intervention, so I ask that the previous vote be annulled, and that we begin to plead individually on each of the amendments. First we declare the amandman and delegate Zovko. Of the 14 delegates present – 5 delegates were for, against 7 delegates, 2 delegates were abstained. From Federation 5 to, 4 against, no one abstention, from the RS no one for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. There is no general majority, so I realize that this amendment has not been adopted. Now we move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 5 delegates, 6 delegates were against, 3 delegates were detained. From Federation 5 to, against 4, no one abstentioned, from the RS no one for, against 2, 3 abstentions. There is no general majority, so I find that amandman ii has not received support either. Now we move on to the Declaration on amandman III.. Of the 14 delegates present, 5 delegates were detained for, against 6 delegates, 3 delegates were detained. From Federation 5 to, 4 against, no one abstention, from the RS no one for, 2 against, 3 abstentions. There's no general majority, so I'm guessing that amandman III didn't get any support either. Now we're going to vote on the amandman of delegate Zdenka Džambas. Please run the system. Of the 14 delegates present – 5 delegates were in favour, against... _________(?) 19 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1087	The Honorable Chairman. 20 I want to draw attention once again to injustice, discrimination against one number of members of police structures. What concerns me very much, and I would like someone to inform us, which is not how all police agencies work at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that mean? That it's absolutely the will of individual executives. And I would therefore ask the Council of Ministers urgently to see if this is being implemented in all agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or if it is only in some police structures where the managers are one or the other. Once again, I draw attention that it is inappropriate for many dozens of people to walk for years after having successfully completed their careers. Which we can now say was thrown down the water without being able to make any compensation. And in the meantime, their children should experience an additional inconvenience, even shame, that their parents served this system. Inappropriately, if we really didn't have the strength to pass this, a law like this would treat everything equally. Isn't that discrimination? I therefore repeat that I ask the Council of Ministers, first of all the Ministry of Security to see whether these views are respected and respected in all agencies, including non-police agencies, and to inform us about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1088	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I have to intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so this search for this nature is that you, as a delegate, are appealing or suggesting a conclusion that we as the House will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1089	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1090	Can you please just draw a conclusion, as it is very important for the overall content of the material related to the session. Okay. Is anyone else answering for word, the debate is open? Mr. Nović, you'll probably make this up soon because, Mr. Nović, given the economicity of this session's time, will you allow me to try to interpret your proposal as...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1091	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1092	Okay. Then like this, I invite you to follow what I'm talking about. So, I'm calling you, I'm sorry, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1093	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1094	Clearly, clearly, clearly, but just to define this kind of conclusion. So, the conclusion that you are asking us to make is that, regardless of the outcome of this vote, since we are not yet 21 we can predict, but in any case this law has a problem, obviously, so the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the Council of Ministers to consider this issue and refer it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1095	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1096	That's already a delegate question. So what we're talking about is a potential obligation and that, in doing so, here's to saying attitude 2. – state the situation regarding compliance with these provisions by security agencies related to the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1097	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1098	Okay. Of course, we'll still formulate it in the end. You try. If there are no more requests for discussion, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. First we move to a statement before we declare the proposed conclusions and vote on the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. Of the 14 delegates present, do you want to repeat the vote, Mr. Radmanović, I assume the confusion has come? You're for opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1099	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1100	Well, do you want to repeat the vote? I'm asking you to repeat the vote. So we are pleading on the Commission's opinion. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 8 delegates against 5 delegates, 1 delegate was retained. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from the RS no one for, 5 against and no one abstention. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so now it's the subject of harmonisation with the College. Are colleagues ready to get along now or leave for the next session? _________(?) For the next session. For the next session. Thank you. 22 We end up on this item of the agenda, at this point of discussion, so we will also decide on the conclusion proposed by Mr Nović after we decide on the scale of this issue. And I ask you until then to prepare it in a way that is adequate for the Rules of Procedure. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. The request of delegates Halid Genjac, Bariša Čolak, Sredoje Nović, Dragutin Rodić, Safet Softić and Ljilja Zovko to consider Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1103	I thank the chairman. I think there's a need to make it very brief, more public, so explain what's going on. The extensive amendments to the Rules of Procedure and one and the other House which took place several months ago and which resulted from the work of a group working on it last year resulted, as I said, in a series of amendments but resulted in two solutions that were resolved differently in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. It's a question of immunity and a question of authentic interpretation. Immunity was defined differently, addressed to a different extent to the Immunity Act, and authentic interpretation was eliminated in the House of Nations, and remains in the House of Representatives. Of course, since there is a need for this institute to exist in both Rules of Procedure in order to even exist in the Parliamentary Assembly, it was necessary to agree. And the constitutional committees of both homes have sat down and prepared this proposal and this proposal is the result of this work. With the adoption of these amendments, the rules of procedure and the other home are brought into full proportion and complete equality as regards all members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1104	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. 23 So, Mr. Genjac came forward as a proposal regarding an emergency procedure to explain the urgency. Anyone else want to take part in the emergency debate? There are no reports. We are approaching a statement on the procedure, so whether the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be discussed by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Of the 14 delegates present – 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9 for, RS 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the motion to consider amending the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted by an urgent procedure. I am now opening a debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I find that out of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9 for, RS 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to work on the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the year 2014, the BiH Presidency's material You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 and is proposing its adoption to the House. At the 19th session, held on 28.10.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Report. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, if she wishes. He doesn't want to, like in the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the Reporter, if he's present. The Ministry of Finance doesn't have anyone, does it? _________(?) Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1111	I thank the chairman. Delegates have received a comprehensive report in which everything that is important for this appointment is located, but since it is an extremely significant institution, a specific institution, I will look back with a few words on the procedure. So, as both homes were said, they appointed their members to the Interim Commission. The Commission has worked with certain dynamics, called for a competition, registered 19 candidates, of which 17 candidates joined the interview. I would like to stress that the whole time the Commission has ensured full transparency of work in such a way that all acts, such as the Rules of Procedure, applications of candidates, biographies, published on the 27th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's website, were attended by representatives of all international organisations present in Sarajevo dealing with the protection of human rights. In addition, commission meetings were attended by representatives of the NGO sector who also had the opportunity to ask, through members of the Commission, candidates of the issue. The interview with the candidates took place, I would say, in a very correct atmosphere, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission, and all the members of the Commission had 10 minutes at their disposal, to ask each candidate 10 minutes of questions, and mostly the members of the commission used that right. Finally, we have established a ranking list which is the result of all those elements by which the members of the Commission have evaluated, but I repeat, I would like to point out one, I would say, a procedural and business correct approach, transparency in the work of which no one has noticed from the non-governmental sector either. And in the end, I think these are the reasons that the Commission's work has also resulted, in my opinion, in very high quality proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1112	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Congratulations on behalf of the House. I'm opening a debate. A distinguished colleague, delegate Mario Karamatić, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's all like Mr. Genjac said, but the HSS and I are in favour of the rule of law and law alone, and I don't want to get into a situation where we do something that doesn't conform to our business or laws. I was taught at school that mathematics is an exact science, and among other things they taught me so that 5 couldn't be 1/3 of 17. Some people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who don't normally pay taxes here and who have huge salaries interpret it to be. And also we all got a memo, so not at all questioning the list of candidates, agenda, procedures that are..., the House of Representatives confirmed the selection of these three ombudusmen with 18 votes to. And at that moment, 39 members of the House of Representatives attended the House of Representatives. 18 is not half the majority of 39. It is half, but it is not half a majority, and I think it is much simpler than to ask for an OHR interpretation to delay a statement about this so that we do not enter into a position to adopt something that is not consistent, it may not be consistent, I do not know the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives since I am in the House of Peoples, however, I have also prepared a proposal for a conclusion that would require the interpretation of the College of the House of Representatives on this case, and a statement on this choice of Ombudsman to postpone for the next session. Proposal for a conclusion – It requires the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives College of BiH authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives on the validity of the adoption of decisions on the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted with 18 votes for the presence of 39 MPs. So this is about human rights, it's about, to me, very clear math, I've given myself the effort, and I've written a proposal for a conclusion so it doesn't have to wait. And here, I'm saying, my proposal would be, if the esteemed colleagues agree, so just after all this work done by the Joint Commission, where there can be no stain on the appointment of the Ombudsman, that we don't allow ourselves to confirm this House's decision, which, truth be told, most of the 28 votes, is actually passed by half the members present at the House of Representatives, but I'm not sure it's in accordance with the rules of procedure. Well, we'd rather go back if the House of Representatives had to vote on it again, to adopt the super-half majority, if that's already said by the Rules of Procedure, and then let us plead. That's it, there's paper here. Technical services can come and get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1114	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The rules of procedure are important to say next. Each of the two homes is independent. This question as well as two questions that come up on the agenda after this, so we solve for ourselves, we plead on that list how we want to do it. The fact that the predstavnički of Representatives had previously decided absolutely has no effect on us, because they in this capacity, so in which they expressed themselves, and however they expressed themselves, do not give us any frame of conduct. We draw up our business powers concerning the election on the proposed list submitted by the Joint Commission temporarily and accordingly we make a decision. Unless, not getting into what you're talking about at all, so anyone in the House of Representatives finds it appropriate, or for some other reason finds it appropriate, to question it again, it's just a job at the House of Representatives. So it's very important to know, therefore, that we're not tied to them on this subject. I am, of course, saying this because you have initiated this kind of discussion, and I am obliged as chairman, after having consulted with two colleagues, to explain, it is my business obligation, so today we are going to make a statement about the decision that is our decision. If there is any shortage in the decision of the House of Representatives, and I say so myself, so it can be difficult because it is a computer system that produces results, therefore none of the MPs or members of the College influences it, so we do not enter into anything else. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1115	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1116	That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1117	Well, it says here, I didn't know what to write, I can't even say correcting the wrong quote, so this slipped under my finger, meaning it's not strictly about it. I'm interested, so there really is... if the House of Representatives has adopted a decision, coffee has been adopted, I respect it, I will vote for a proposal to elect an Ombudsman in the way the Commission delivered it, so there's absolutely no dilemmas of mine, my dilemma is, if it's the House of Representatives, I'm not saying that if it is, if it has violated its Rules of Procedure, it means that the decision is illegal and illegal, if we confirm their decision, I don't want to break the law, do I violate the law in that case? So here I have one moral doubt – absolutely not against this rank list, absolutely support everything the Joint Commission has done, and I thank you, indeed, for the tremendous effort I have made, I speak in... just and exclusively, not wanting to throw a stain on the complete process of naming three ombudsmen. I'm saying, I'm here in a moral doubt, so I don't have my favorite, I absolutely don't push anyone, but I don't want to break the laws of this country. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1118	I totally understand you, Mr. Karamatić. We have a business problem that does not have an impediment point in the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which we would assess whether the House of Representatives voted properly or did not vote. So that's the problem we're facing. We make a decision for ourselves, for the House of Peoples. If there is any problem with the House of Representatives' decision, it is a question that they will have to resolve if necessary. We're not in charge of this, as they can't decide whether we've decided right or wrong. So, I'm just giving that explanation to explain what we're going to vote on when we get to the voting procedure on proposals that are in order. And you, of course, have the right to your proposal and it will remain behind the vote on the Commission's report. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone. As a matter of fact, Mr. Genjac, if I understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1119	Oh, here, in a way, maybe I can help with some of my views. I don't think there's any room for dilemmas or reserves at all. Why? This is not about confirming a decision, the two homes are not about proposing or naming one, so the other confirms it. Two homes are in a completely equal position, making their own decisions autonomously. Whatever the decision of the House of People's House of Representatives makes, all three candidates can be appointed by others. In that case, the commission is appointed, formed and agreed. So, the House of Nations today is doing its part of the job, declaring itself on the proposed list. As I said, it can be the same as the House of Representatives, partly the same, exactly the same, different completely etc., but today we are doing our part of the job by declaring ourselves on the Commission's proposal, so we will choose... three of us will choose. And there's no problem. In case it is, and it is very important to emphasize it – as long as the House of Representatives provides us with information that they have appointed for us is the only relevant information. The College of the House of Representatives informed that they had made the appointment, until then it was relevant for us, nothing else exists for us. In the background is intervention, I mean, one candidate who didn't understand the procedure, because he doesn't know that abstentions in most of both homes don't count as votes, and there's a misunderstanding. So, as long as the House of Representatives delivers us information, and he delivers that they have completed it, for us it is a legitimate state and yet they have finished their part of the work... Even if there was some issue at the House of Representatives, they didn't do it right, they have to repeat the vote, no problem, we end it today. When they, if they need to do it again, see if it's the same thing or if we need to get along, and I don't think they're gonna have to do it again. So business is a clear position, I agree with the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1120	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. If there are no further reports, Mr. Karamtić, whether or not, here's the collegiation, we can consider this question resolved as far as our home is concerned. We can, thank you very much. We can move to a statement on the very proposal of the Joint Commission. So, I invite you to move on to the plea. We vote on the appointment of three ombudsmans for human rights BiH in line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates for appointment submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three BiH Ombudsmans for human rights. 30 Of the 13 delegates present, 10 delegates were for, against no one, three delegates were abstentioned. From Federation 8 for, from RS 2 for, 3 abstentions. Since there is a general and entity majority, I find that we have appointed Ljubinko Mitrović, Jasminka Džumhur and Nives Jukić as the Ombudsman for human rights. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. The appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Implementation of the Appointment Procedure of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions At the 12th session of the House of Representatives held on 28.05.2015 and at the 7th session of the House of People, held on 15.07.2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH in which the people were appointed: Bariša Čolak, Darko Babalj and Fahrudin Radončić. The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions at the 5th session, held on 22.10.2015, also adopted a proposal for a list of successful candidates for the appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. In line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates for appointments submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes today, we should declare the appointment of the auditor-general and deputy general auditor of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office. The House of Representatives was held at the 19th session, held on 28.10.2015, for the Secretary-General. BiH institutions' audit offices named Dragan Vrankić, and BiH institutions' deputy auditor-general, Rank Krsman, named him. I give my word to Mr. Bariša Čolak, head of the Interim Joint Commission, if he wishes. Like in the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, in line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates for appointment delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 10 delegates, no one against them, three delegates were detained. From Federation 8 for, from RS 3 for, 3 reserved. 31 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have appointed Dragan Vrankić as the deputy general auditor of the BiH Office for the Audit of the Institutions, Rank Krsman. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I support that we unite these two points in order to speed up the work related to the investment grant and financial co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Well, this is exactly the word of co-operation, and as I am a member of the College of the Joint House of the State Parliament for Human Rights, along with my distinguished colleague Genjac, I notice a little discrimination in this Chamber, so here I would ask the College to remove it until the next session. Namely, the last row here, distinguished gentlemen journalists don't have glasses next to these bottles, so here I'd like to ask you to intervene at the service that delivers, to have people from which to drink a glass of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1125	You obviously think our journalists are unprepared for our sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1126	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-10-0.u1127	Okay, but here's the secretaryate, or the Joint Affairs Service, heard what Mr. Karmatić said, and we, as members of the College, appeal. Okay, about some other issues related to the unification of these two points, maybe some essence is missing... Let's get this over with. [[/doesn't know how to laugh.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, We're moving on to a plea. So we're pleading to unite the debate... Of the 13 delegates present - 12 delegates were in favour, against 1 delegate, and there were no abstentions. From Federation 8 for, from RS 4 for, 1 against. I find that there is a general and entity majority, and this proposal has been adopted. Ad. 14. - Ad. 16 Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. 34 I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, the chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now we're moving on to a plea. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreements and contracts referred to in points 14 to 16, including item 16 of the agenda. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and none was abstentioned. From Federation 8 for RS 5 for. I find that there is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have given consent to the ratification of the agreements and contracts referred to in points 14 to 16, including the point of the 16th agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I realize that we have completed the 11th session of the House of Peoples and I am concluding this session. On the date of the next session, you will, of course, be informed in time. Thank you for your contribution. Session completed at 13:30 p.m.
