ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u704	Dear colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 envoys, of whom 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Representatives Halid Genjac and Fahrudin Radončić are not able to be present at today's session for reasons. For the 8th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Envoys Ognjen Tadić and Darko Babalj's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-10/15, of 28.07.2015; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: The Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-3/15, of 03.07.2015, with Miljest of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Proposal for a decision to adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Policy for the period 2015 to 2030, the Ministry of Communications and Transport material of BiH, issue: 02-29-1010/15, from 22.07.2015; 5. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2014, issue 02-50-19-554/15, of 13/04/2015; 6. Report on BHRT's work and business for 2014, Report on the financial reports carried out by BHRT for 2014, Financial Plan BHRT and programme plans for 2015, Material of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Management Board, Number: 01,02-29-791/15, of 10.06.2015; 7. Annual report in the area of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, No: 01,02-28-898/15, of 08.07.2015; 8. Report on the work of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014: 8.1. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legislative Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the period 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2014, issue: 02-50-8-478/15, from 01.04.2015. 2 8.2. Report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budgets of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, material number: 02/3-50-8-709/15 of 19.05.2015, 8.3. Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, material No: 02/2-50-8-23-3/15, of 22.04.2015; 9. Report on the work of permanent joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 2014 Houses: 9.1. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-14-604/15, of 27.04.2015, 9.2. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-111/15, dated 20.01.2015, 9.3. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH for 2014, issue: 01.02.03,03/1-50-14-603/15, of 24.04.2015, 9.4. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-14-618/15, dated 27.04.2015, 9.5. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on European Integration for 2014, issue 03/4-50-14-733/15, dated 25.05.2015; 10. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2014, the Council of Ministers' material number: 01.02-16-1-879/15, of 02.07.2015; 11. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH on the discussion of the BiH Council of Ministers' Information on the attack on the Zvornik police station and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska's space; 12. A report with a conference on the subject: “The achievement and protection of human rights and freedoms through the legislative framework, the current state and plans of BiH institutions in the field of human rights” with a proposal for conclusions, the materials of the Joint Committee on Human Rights since 27.07.2015; 13. Giving consent to ratifying Supplement 2. Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, relating to the horizontal nuclear safety and radiation protection programme under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-1001/15, of 15.07.2015; 14. Granting consent to ratify the loan agreement (loan for the development policy of the business environment) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-362/15, dated 10.03.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any suggestions for changing and supplementing this harmonised agenda? If there isn't, and I see no one checked in, so if there are no amendments and additions proposals, the agenda has been adopted. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 3 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Moving to point two, that's it, Ad. 2. Envoys Ognjen Tadić and Darko Babalj's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u707	Here, first of all, let me say hello. I'll try to be brief since we're all familiar with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers. So, the main reason for the adoption of this law is to solve the problem that police officers face with the place of residence in Republika Srpska, which concerns the exercise of pension rights. Namely, police officers who meet one of the two legal conditions for retirement, prescribed by the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, are retired although the Law on Pension Disability Insurance of Republika Srpska does not have the same conditions for retirement. The intensity that we have managed by proposing this Law is that police officers who have retired without meeting the conditions for retirement under the Law on PIO of Republika Srpska, which cannot automatically exercise the right to retire, are provided during which they will meet the prescribed conditions under the same Law. Obviously, discrimination against these people who have found themselves in an uninvited situation because of a bad legal solution. The violation of their fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, is evident. Given the severity of the injury to these listed acts, as well as the urgency of the situation, we believe that I am obliged as conscious representatives of citizens to react quickly and by adopting the proposed legal solution to help these people. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u708	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Come on, I'll do it, buddy. I'll just go out and say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u709	The word has the chairman of the House, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u710	Thank you, sir. First Deputy. Well, here you have heard briefly from Mr. Babalj, and I believe you are familiar with this issue and through that Law that was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH and withdrawn. I just got a memo from Minister Mektić this morning, so the law was withdrawn. This problem really exists, and it needs to be solved. I am, while I was also BiH Justice Minister, familiar with this problem, it is obviously about lack of harmonisation, I would say, regulations from the pension-inhabited insurance of two entities and there really is a problem. However, I'm not quite sure that we're going to be able to solve this problem in this, uh, emergency procedure, and therefore, here I am also going to make it clear that this is still going into regular procedure, given that this is really a very important issue, so that we don't make any kind of a failure. According to some information, although not verified, certain places have already been attended by certain people and this needs really very careful, but also, not waiting much, to solve this issue. I believe that we have plenty of time and space, regardless of the urgency of this, so on a proposal that goes, to consider it by an emergency procedure, to solve this problem in one way that we would not, by solving it like this, say, by an urgent procedure, in order not to do perhaps some oversight that would later be even more difficult to correct. Here, that's what I was going to say. Thank you. Who's answering for a word? If not, then I will close the debate and, therefore, we are now voting on the procedure, so will we consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Please prepare to plead. You can vote. There were no abstentions from the 13 present – six against seven. From Federation of BiH 1 for, 7 against, no one was abstentioned, the RS was 5 for. There's no general majority. Therefore, the request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH, by emergency procedure, has not been adopted. Since no request has been adopted to consider the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH under an urgent procedure, we should first be made aware of the request for a review of the Law under a shortened procedure and in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Therefore, we are now voting on whether the proposal for a law will be considered by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 5 Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 13 present – for the 6, 7 was against, there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 1 to, 7 against, no one abstentioned, from RS 5 for. So, the general majority is gone. I agree that the request for a review of the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH has not been adopted after a brief procedure. If, therefore, Dom does not accept the request for consideration under the shortened procedure, and this has now happened, the proposal for a law is under regular legislative procedure. Let's move on to point three, that's it, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, with miljenje of the ustavnopravni Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH O is the first reading of the bill, so Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, but first there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission failed to determine the compliance of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Sports in BiH with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. I'd give the word to Mr. Genjac, but he's not here. Proposer of the law, if he has one. I can't see. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u714	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u715	Thank you. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? We have a report. Mr. Karamatić signed up. Mr. Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u716	Respect for the chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Council of Ministers Chairman, distinguished ministers and ministers. Here, at the beginning of my words, the HSS will support this, but only for one reason, and this is the meeting of the Western Balkan Summit in Vienna, which will take place on 27.08. this year, means in about a month, where, according to information I have, it will also be Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and Ministers Šarović and Crnadak. And the adoption of this document opens up opportunities for us to access certain European funds, etc. But what I don't understand is that I have to share some thoughts here with the public and with you, when we adopt something that should be like this and that opens the door in the EU for us to feel red and ugly afterwards. For example, on page 9 of this Framework Strategy, it states that the Transport Sector should contribute to achieving the following objectives, so the improvement of living standards is listed, so it says immediately in the explanation that there is no correlation between the Framework Transport Policy and the improvement of living 7 standards, but remains firmly committed. I mean, what does it mean to improve living standards? Only that truck drivers don't eat peas alone, but beans with sausages, for example, work. This, in my opinion, is quite unwisely written. And I have some questions, which I'd like to get a written answer to, sometimes in the future if the ministry gentlemen have a chance. I'm interested in who's the author of this Framework Policy? Is the correct information, which I have, that for making this text a few years ago was paid to an foreign house... if it is as much as it was paid from? I am also interested in why the document is called Framework, and in all countries of the region is called Transport Policy? Why has this Framework Transport Policy not been preceded by a long-term transport development strategy? There is always a long-term strategy, and then a policy is adopted. So we're going in reverse order again. I do not see in this document the fundamental elements, such as the objectives of this document, which must be clear and measurable, the carriers, the instruments to be implemented. I don't see at all whether the goals that are being measured here are anything, anything. In 5 or 10 years, what will the effect of this Traffic Policy be? I don't see that the holders of this Traffic Policy are clearly known, and I don't see any instruments to implement these objectives that are written here. I do not see that seven objectives of the EU's common transport policy are integrated into the text of this Transport Policy. I see absolutely no financial reflections of the adoption of this document, unless the gentlemen who will be at the summit in Vienna are merely able to implement something. And I am very interested in the information, which I have, that the payment of the production of the Transport Strategy, which, in my opinion, should have preceded this document and would later be brought forward, plans to pay a million euros. Now, if we have the Department of Transport at the state level that costs us about 6.5m euros, so I think it would be logical for the employees of the Ministry to work out that strategy within the working hours, and that would cost us nothing. If we're going to pay a million-euro strategy to someone and we've paid for this Framework Policy, the question I'm asking all of us – what do we need from the Ministry of Transport at the state level? I don't see the sense of existence then. I'm saying, I'm going to support adoption and this, in my opinion, the narrative text for the sole purpose of the Summit. And the gentlemen who represent us there want all the happiness, I'm going to hold their thumbs so that someone doesn't read this correctly, so they start asking them some questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u717	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is there anyone else here to take your word for it? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to adopt the BiH Framework Transport Policy for the period 2015 to 2030. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the decision to adopt the BiH Framework Transport Policy for the period 2015 to 2030 has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. 8 Please prepare to vote on the conclusion. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH for 8, from RS for 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications at the House of Peoples has been adopted. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Report on work of BiH Appeal Office for 2014 You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission passed the report. The Commission for Finance and Budget also reached the next conclusion, whose adoption is proposing to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. - The people's home is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently consider the new Internal Design Regulation of the Office for the Review of Appeals in order to give consent to it, all in order to establish the appropriate organisational structure of the Office, and... the implementation of the Rules of Procedure urgently secures additional resources, possibly the realisation of the Rules of Procedure. The House of Representatives at the 15th session, held on 22.07.2015, did not adopt that Report. I give the word to Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, if she appreciates the need. There isn't. Thank you. I give the word to the reporter of the report, if it is, here is Mrs. President, Željka Klobučar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u719	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you, members of the College, the distinguished delegates of this House, the Ministers and Ministers of the Council of Ministers and ladies and gentlemen. I feel the need especially after, normally, the personal dissatisfaction with this report at the second House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to address you briefly. In front of you is the report on the work of an institution called the Board of Appeal, and what I would like to underline is that its fundamental relevance was the timely adoption of the complaint, i.e. the timely resolution of complaints made by the applicants in public procurement proceedings by the applicants to the decisions of the contractual bodies. In doing so, I would like to underline something else that is very important, which one respected representative at the House of Representatives pointed out, that any complaint that stands in the drawer or which is not resolved is a minus for the economy in this country, that is correct. But what this report, which is before you, is also a reference to the shortcomings in the application of the law and the shortcomings which other nature met the Office in resolving this appeal. First of all, this reporting period marks two features. One is that half last year has been appointed a new meeting of the Office, so the new five members of the Office, and another is that at the end of the reporting period, more precisely 27.11.2014 a new Public Procurement Act has started to apply which has a completely different concept. In connection with these first significant features, so the appointments of new members, I would like to say that they met with two problems. The first problem is the fact that the number of complaints in 2014, this report and 9 contained, and we are not hiding it, decreased significantly by 45% compared to the previous reporting period in 2013, but I must say that this is the result of an important newspaper introduced by the previous so-called last changes. the old Public Procurement Act, which concerns the applicant's obligation to pay compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure. Therefore, unlike the earlier administrative fee of no more than 100 KM, the complainants were now, in 2014, at the end of 2013, obliged to pay compensations whose amount was not small, moving depending on the estimated value of public procurement from 500 KM to 10,000 KM, which affected the reduction in the number of complaints in 2014. Since this report, which is before you, is already being adopted in the second half of this current year, I want to highlight something that is very important, which is that this fee, which has affected the reduction of the number of complaints in the previous year, is absolutely no longer playing any role by applying the new Law. Namely, if, you can see from the report that it was during 2014. The office received 1.132 complaints, then I would like to tell you that only until 20th of July this year did the Office receive exactly a thousand complaints. Since the budgets at different levels of government have just been adopted, it is expected that the public procurement process is dropping, and unfortunately the number of complaints is increasing, so in this year we are likely to cross the amount of two thousand complaints. I would like to point out another problem in this regard, and that is the problem that has been highlighted by the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives, which refers to the so-called so-called House of Representatives. the conclusions of the Office which he advertised to inappropriately. It is the fact that the Office was only in such a situation that the complaints which, following the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the old Law which provided for the establishment of branches or facilities in Banja Luka and Mostar, which would be resolved by complaints whose value was estimated below 800 thousand KM for contractual bodies based in the RS or the Federation, the Office could only when it received such complaints to reach the conclusion that it was not applicable. They asked me what we did? Well, we have potentiated, among other things, with the institution responsible for proposing the law, which is the Agency for Public Procurement, that the Parliamentary Assembly should complete that legal gap and that is what happened. On the 25th of last year, we were given back due diligence and since then we have been handling all complaints, but there is a legal vacuum left. From 18.11.2013 to 24.06.2014, 111 complaints from 2013 and 408 complaints from 2014. And what is related to the proposal of members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of this House is that this Office really cannot respond to current capacities on, first legal deadlines, and secondly, a lack of material resources affecting our work. In fact, six members of the Office that are currently working cannot really respond with a total of 11 other employees on all the complaints we are receiving in the meantime. For this reason we hope that, a tender is under way for the selection of new members of the Office of Exteriors in Mostar and Banja Luka. It is important for us in the Office to adopt a new Internal Design Regulation, and that is why we have potentiated in the proposal, other than the adoption of this Report, to finally help us by adopting our proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation and, accordingly, to provide additional financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u720	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Klobučar. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 2014 report on the work of the Board of Appeals. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. 10 Out of the 13 – for there were 11; against 2 there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 3 for, 2 against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the 2014 report on the work of the Board of Appeals has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am finding the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples has been adopted. Now we move to the sixth point of today's session, that's Ad. Six. 2014 BHRT Work and Business Report, 2015 Report on the Financial Report of BHRT, BHRT Financial Plan and Programme Plans, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Management Board material You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT, the report on the audit of BHRT's financial reports carried out for 2014 and proposed their adoption to the House of Peoples. The commission took note of BHRT's financial plan and programme plans for 2015, and proposed to the House to take them into knowledge. The House of Representatives at the 15th session, held on 22.07.2015, did not adopt the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT and the 2014 report on the financial reports carried out by BHRT and did not receive any knowledge of the BHRT Financial Plan and the programme plans for 2015. I give the word to Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, the chairman of the Committee, if he appreciates his needs. Mr. Radmanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u722	Ladies and gentlemen, delegates, chairman, vice presidents of the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers. Just a few sentences on this very important subject. The people's home has repeatedly debated BHRT, this is the truth of a regular debate on the Report and on the Financial Plan, but the Commission has taken the opportunity to discuss the situation in BHRT again comprehensively. However, today the Commission does not propose to the House that it conducts a comprehensive discussion, because we did so at the last session, but in addition to what the chairman read and what our position of the Report Commission and the Financial Plan is, I would like to inform you that we will prepare for the next session to implement the conclusions of this House from last session, i.e. to propose the final conclusions and views of this House for the resolution of BHRT issues. I would also like to say that it is time for other authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be involved in resolving this issue and to carry out at least a partial comprehensive debate, like this dom, and we think that this would be a solution, but today we should end this with a proposal read by 11 chairpersons, who is the Commission's proposal, regardless of which the Commission was not unique when it comes to the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u723	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. I now give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and if he appreciates that he has needs. There isn't. Okay, thank you. I'm opening the debate now, but here's the suggestion of Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Raguže signed up. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u724	Thank you, Mr. President. I warmly welcome all present. We will accept this suggestion by the chairman of the Committee that we are not having a broad discussion, that we will have the opportunity to consider the sublimated conclusions at the next session, but since this is a very important report from a very important institution, I would just like to briefly comment on a few things, in my opinion very important, for the perception in which the current BHRT is located. In this introduction of this Report, I will say, only briefly, that in terms of complex economic and political opportunities and not implementing the Law on the Public TV System and Service, I have chosen the most. So, we're legislators, we passed this law, and I'm going to remind you once again all of us how we brought it. In 2005, together with simply without the agreement of all the representatives of one constitutional people and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and the Order of Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Law came into force. Now, unfortunately, he's not being implemented. I want to point to the heart of the problem, until these things are fundamentally handled we will have, unfortunately, an environment in which no one will take responsibility for this bad business of BHRT. Secondly, here it is said, therefore, that the Corporation has never revived, complementary programmes, BHRT bears that part of the responsibility and there is not that kind of logistics provided for by law, defacto BHRT is collateral damage to such relations both in the public system and service, and in the overall relations in society. I think here, and I'm going to end with that now, because clearly, it means that this trend of a poor environment for the function of a fundamental BHRT continues drastically. We see that, on an annual basis, nearly 6 million KM last year, there was less income from a TV fee, or because of the lack of payment. This year's programme expenditures are reduced by over a million. This is the basic function of BHRT. Then what does the defacto finance? Infrastructure, logistics, people, we are refreshed that this BHRT is producing a programme that will be a framework for reform in this country, objective information for the benefit of all its peoples and citizens, and I think, therefore, that what the chairman of the Committee said is certain that it is time for other actors to be seriously involved. We had two discussions at the Commission, at the House, I expect the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry to finally come before this House, before the Parliamentary Assembly, not to politicise whether it needs a channel or not, that's not the issue of the ministry, that's the question for the legislator, and that's a legitimate question for the legislator, as is the legitimate question of whether we are going to bring the BHRT structure into line with European standards, here I am for that, so what the European standards say about multiethnic countries and its character. Let it be a framework for reform, I think it's in everyone's best interest or this will collapse. This is collapsing turbo speed, I, uh, these people are doing as much as 12 as I can, I see great progress in the quality of the program, rationalization in costs and attempts, so in these very limited and narrow opportunities to do as much as possible, and that's why I welcomed the efforts of these people and correctness in this report, I have to. But we also need to know if they're looking for a realisation of this law, its change, a change in the way of billing for a TV fee, which is expected by the end of next year to reach some agreement, because via the telecom operator, it obviously doesn't work for innovation anymore, because of the lack of respect for the law, etc. So we need a common approach to create real assumptions that BHRT is a true public house with a leading role in the production of the programme in the interests of its peoples and citizens, in the interests of this country, to respect, of course, the entity broadcasters and these relationships, but also to respect the legitimate requirements for the reconstruction of this very important house. I expect that through the conclusions we will succeed, here at least this House, channel one of these serious situations and rational proposals in such a way that we do not push our heads into the sand anymore, but help people to achieve their basic function, while Parliament and the Council of Ministers create assumptions for the achievement of these legitimate requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u725	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u726	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. Dear colleagues and colleagues, without adding or subtracting anything, I would just one conclusion that I have prepared, here is unnecessary without any debate, to read to you, which I think would be constructive in terms of these next events, what will be done. Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with, in accordance with Article 26(1) to (6). Law on the Public TV System of BiH and Article 8. The Law on the Public TV Service of BiH and, in cooperation with the Committee of the Systems, by the end of the current year, submits a report to the People's House on the coherence and measures taken to achieve compliance of the Public TV System with the legal course of the EU, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Articles 101 and 102, which entered into force on 01 June 2015. I suggest this House if it can adopt this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u727	You have to sign and share that conclusion if you think Dom pleads with him. Thank you. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Karamatić, I think, is. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u728	Here, I will, for the most part, take advantage of the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, very briefly refer to this report. The problem with the adoption of this BHRT report, BHRT is the least guilty here, as the prominent colleague Raguž said, is 13 collateral damage. How can I raise my hand to adopt someone's illegal work? This domestic law by chance or on purpose, someone said, one people was too loud when it was passed, but the law is, as most things in this country, that are not right and that are not working, imposed by part of the international community and the OHR, which is why it does not work. And today we need to vote on a very correct report, to point out, that the BHRT gentlemen have delivered to us, so we are not voting on BHRT here, we are voting on the Public TV system of BiH. If we adopt this Report we support the illegal work of Federal TV, which has not had the Governing Board for years, which has not had the Statute of the Society for years, which has not paid BHRT the funds. I appeal once again to sit down and agree on a new Law on the Public TV System that will be agreed between all three peoples. The matter is very simple, I will say it in one sentence, and colleagues from other peoples should only put an adjective of Serbian or Bosniak instead of Croatian, no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina can have more rights than the Croatian people and no one should have less rights than the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u729	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I don't see any more reports, so I'm closing the hearing. First we vote on the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT and the 2014 report on the audit of BHRT's financial reports. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 - 3 present for, versus 8, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH 3 for, 4 against and 1 abstention, no one from RS for, 4 against and 1 abstention. So there's no general majority. I agree with the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT and the 2014 report on the audit of BHRT's financial reports has not been adopted. We are now voting on BHRT's financial plan and programmes for 2015. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of present 13 - 4 for, 7 v, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH 4 for, 4 against, no one abstention, from the RS no one for, 3 against and 2 abstentions. There's no general majority. I am in charge of the BHRT Financial Plan and the programme plans for 2015 have not been adopted. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this, is there any need to read it again? Did you get all the conclusions? We can, therefore, prepare ourselves for a statement of conclusion. You can vote now. Of the 13 present -- for it was 11, versus 2, no one abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, no one abstention, from RS 5 for, no one against and no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find this conclusion has been adopted by the House. We move to the seventh item of the agenda of today's session, that's, like, 14 Ad. Seven. Annual report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, materials from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission didn't accept the report. At the 15th session, held on 22 July 2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with a conclusion. I give the word to Mr. Negojš Radmanović, the chairman of the Committee if he appreciates his needs. Thank you, no need. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. He's gone, so there's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? We have a report from Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u731	So that Mario doesn't always be like this, Mario, here's how I get to compliment someone once. Dear Ministers of my sincere congratulations for announcing the introduction of a blue diesel for farmers. This is the Ministry, in my opinion, doing well. In this year we managed to get the opportunity to export potatoes to the EU, the introduction of a blue diesel has been announced, the problem of milk is being solved, it solves a lot of things, and then I'm saddened by this good report when I see, let's say, in one part, the county ministry is not listed, but let's believe that these remarks will be implemented, and that is, I suppose, the failure of officials working at the ministry. However, I have to say some things here for reasons, we've had some last year, I mean, snows that have caused huge damage to farmers, so we've had floods last year that have caused millions of damage to farmers, and that's not in the report, it can't be, it says here that 78 million in the Federation were scheduled for 2013. 86 million. We had one disastrous situation for 4 years, we had Mr. Jerk Ivanković Lijanović as federal agriculture minister, the new federal agriculture minister knows what he is facing. I must point out here that farmers living on agriculture, so it's the only segment of the Bosnian Herzegovina society that produces something, which brings added value, these people haven't been paid off in 2012. In Unsko-Sanski Canton, people came off the roads four days ago, in Posavina, which was obviously not enough just for Jerko Lijanović, but still had to be hit and flooded, overheated people unblocked the border crossings and roads. The situation in agriculture is alarming. I really appeal in any way, means by the Council of Ministers and to try through pre-accession funds how much to resuscitate. No matter what I commended, here is Mr. Šarović specifically on these things he did, and I would ask him to try to do something else on some other things to try to secure transportation through EU countries, through Bulgaria and through Greece, because we now have the possibility of exporting meat to Turkey that opened up to us, we have the possibility of exporting milk. That milk and that meat must be transported by airplanes. I believe you're all aware that BH Airlines is dead, to say people's, or churches, mostly there's nothing out of it, so we pay it to foreign companies, and those money could stay here with us, no matter who exports it. We are the House of Peoples of the State Parliament, let us once 15 begin to do something for this people, for those ordinary people who produce something, who fight, whether they come from Bihac, from Posusje, from Banja Luka, to make life easier for them and then I believe that we will all be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u732	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is there anyone else here to take your word for it? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the report now. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – there were 12 against and there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I conclude the Annual Report on Agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 has been adopted. We're going to point eight, that's Ad. 8. Report on the work of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014: 8.1. Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the period from 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2014, 8.2. Report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, 8.3. Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014. You have received a report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Finance and Budget Committee and the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014. The committees have adopted reports and are proposing their adoption to the House. I give the word to the chairman of the committee if they appreciate the need. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on reports on the work of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014. So we're going to vote once on all three of these reports. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. 16 Of the 12 who were present, there were 12 against them, and there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I establish the report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Finance and Budget Committee and the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014 was adopted. Moving to point nine, that's Ad. Nine. Report on the work of permanent joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 2014 Houses: 9.1. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, 9.2. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014 9.3. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH for 2014, 9.4. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, 9.5. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u737	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, representatives of the international community, respected media. So, if you see in the preamble of these conclusions the Joint Commission tried at its 6th session, Mr. President you were present to agree these conclusions. We failed, so we delayed it at the 7th session here, given the situation and the state in which we live, we found some compromise and came to these conclusions which, as you have seen, the House of Representatives has already adopted. However, I have answered, not as a rapporteur to the Commission, but I will tell you as a citizen. I can tell you responsibly that even if these conclusions were quick and very effective, I believe that Mr. Mektić will agree with me, realised, which I simply doubt, the situation in this segment of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina will not improve for the ytu either. So, I'm the man who earned my pension in the security sector, right, but what I've seen in this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security these six months, I think it's a disaster at the very least. It's simply the impression that whenever there's an excess in this country then there's a certain agency that no longer knows how to coordinate or coordinate, or where the regulations are, or who's responsible for anything, definitely a forest of rules in which everyone else is going to get lost. I call you as, I mean, Mr. Tadić isn't funny, uh, I invite you both as people and as 19 responsible delegates in this House, do we, since we have a break and a vacation before us, can we use this Zvornik and later the Potočar to forget a little bit of entity, county and all other possible party, political interests and get serious about this problem, to go into serious reform of this sector. Because, gentlemen, I'm telling you the way we are, as organized, here in this matter, with this evil of the 21st century -- terrorism, not that we can't fight, but, I don't even know what's going on, the fairies are wearing us, and you saw it through the Law of Police Officers, which two, three times already we're going back. I'm surprised Mr. Babalj's discussion that we're dealing with some things in part now, and when we were fighting for members of the Armed Forces to solve it, we couldn't get a single hand for four years. So let's do something, let's do something quality, let's forget, let's tell our citizens they have security. Unfortunately, I, in agencies like this and this coordination, not to be misunderstood, we have very skilled people and trained people downstairs who carry out work, but worse coordination with whom they command, it's definitely, gentlemen, terribly, worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u738	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. Now I'm giving the applicant a word of information if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. Who's answering for a word. We have a report of Mr. Nović and Mr. Raguž so far. Here you go. Mr. Nović signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u739	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have no intention of talking about this much because late hours today will mean nothing. It's unfortunate that this House discusses these issues after, here are two months and more, and today we will spend no time in vain whatever we say about what happened in Zvornik or about Zvornik, because here, 15 days have passed around the event in Potocari and a man has to express his disappointment with apropo and what fellow Sifet says that no one is responsible or has failed in the Potočar case. But I want two things, before I look at the very conclusions of this Commission, to say the least. Today we have this information about the Zvornik and it seems to me that when everything is looked at then, I would say, it's more complete and even more correct, regardless of the role they have, the Ministry of Security which has also given perhaps the best suggestion of conclusions that are what they are, and when we compare them with what the Joint Commission is then they are excellent. I wonder today, here after 2.5 months, all of us, what really happened in Zvornik? Do we have any final information on what a motive is, do we know who a person is and what a face it is, because here, of course, there is no information? From what initiatives, from which initiative did he, do we have any information, committed this act of terrorism? We don't. We don't know at all whether this activity is being brought to an end or whether it's still being investigated, maybe the D.A. is still under investigation, so we don't have any information about it. But if you look at this SIPA information, it seems to me that the SIPA is, yes, what was found in the search. I, of course, sometimes think that neither alone nor those who work in those organs that it is possible for serious police agencies to say, among other things, in the search, we took away religious literature. A simple astonishment. What's religious literature? Who was responsible for the 20 religious literature he held, who was responsible for the pictures that someone held from this to that, etc.? In serious police agencies, you don't need to turn your head, Mr. Tadić, where I ran it, if that's what you're saying, it couldn't have gone through. It's incomprehensible that someone's accusing someone of shoes and then putting shoes on them, because when the shoe process is taken away, the shoes fall easy, don't forget. It's inadmissible, it's inadmissible not to know what's being taken away, why it's being taken away, and what it's going to serve. Please, hijacked charger,...cable and battery. Oh, wow, I'm so excited this time that I've seen you, uh, take it away. ... A CD of religious literature, four letters. A love, a terrorist or an organization about something? I have to say that what I'm saying, if this is how it goes in the D.A.'s report, I'm not surprised at why the prosecutors reject police reports, especially why the courts bring acquittals. And then I take off their hat that they do, because we can't do it on the basis of such inaccuracy. So, a lot of things about Zvornik could talk about today but it's not time anymore, and I'm sorry that I'm afraid that's the way it's gonna be in September when we possibly discuss the Potočar. As for the information, or the proposal for the Joint Security Commission's conclusions, I must tell you that I am surprised that this committee, the Joint Commission, is looking this way, not only do I know who might do it and who will do it at all. Among other things, they say -- the proposal for a document, what is a document -- agreement, decision, law or something else that the Council of Ministers needs to determine, with precise operational procedures. First of all, they're not exactly operational procedures, they're procedures. As far as I know, there are some agreements that have been signed, but that implies that we then look at, we assign the Ministry of Security to analyse and propose amendments and additions to these agreements and the Council of Ministers to verify or, if we want, this House or the House of Representatives, however, to consider and to give an even stronger power to that. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think it's just a matter of acting under special circumstances and having an emergency. Who else is in Bosnia and Herzegovina when he declared an emergency. You know about the fact that we're not coming back, not even in the floods, let alone in something else. I think in all situations this should apply, uh, about the exchange of information, the exchange of information, about giving to each other police agencies, whether it's the Ministry of Security, whether it's the judicial authorities now, etc. And that's why I don't agree that it can be in emergency situations, and especially not precise operating procedures. It's not operational, it's procedures and it's not operational, it's operational something else for, but since it's a commission then it's logical that you don't need to look for all these details. Secondly, when we talk about the full information on all acts of terrorism carried out so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the mutual co-operation of police agencies and their co-operation with courts and prosecutors in lighting and processing, I really think we're just wasting our time. What does it mean about all the terrorist actions? Now let's fast more what happened 2 years ago, 3, don't think we're going back to Bugojno that we're going to solve the question today when we've already got something new back 2 months or 15 days, etc. But the bottom line is the co-operation of police agencies, it's a key thing and who can exchange information and get it. Finally, paragraph 4 calls on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Ombudsman's Institution to look into the activities of all courts and prosecutors in all police actions carried out and on human rights violations. First of all, who said that human rights were violated, did an organ find it? What organ found that human rights were violated in all these actions? I think that should be very thoughtful. I did for it to determine all of this, but we need to get a good look at it. That's one question. And secondly, what about letting go of people who are vulnerable, what about bringing in all the police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina at five, ten, 21 no matter how many people, the prosecution does their part of the job in one way or another, I'm not going to go into their jurisdiction, and the next day, it's going to be five, the day after eight, etc. So, in regular procedures, it's not an emergency, it's not about terrorist acts right now, it's not about, I don't know, uh, some mass killings but about actions where 20 people are arrested, bringing in 20 people for 5 grams and marijuana. And then what happens? I think we need to draw a different conclusion, which means that, as far as I'm concerned, the Ministry of Security is preparing and the Council of Ministers to adopt and deliver to us in general a state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina with an emphasis on the possibility of emerging new terrorist activities. I think that's the key. And secondly, with regard to this preparation and information on the state of co-operation of police and judicial authorities in that area, and to propose possible measures for the future, if we want to move forward. If we don't want to, then I think this is just a hoax and we're not gonna get anywhere. So I think, my suggestion is that, or, I think, that these conclusions, delivered by the Joint Commission, should be returned to the Joint Commission to reconsider and to propose to us in this sense, this, otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, certainly cannot vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u740	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Raguž, next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u741	Thank you. Well, I answered the debate, when I heard that two respected MPs who are objectively very competent about these issues, and Mr. Sifet Podžić and Mr. Sredoje Nović, through their debate, give reviews that are indicative of me and cannot feel them. One is that the fairies carry us when it comes to security, given that infrastructure we have and the challenges we face, and the other is that we are here wasting time again, if we continue like this, if that's what I understand. So, with all due respect to these statements and the debate, I mean, that means that the fairies are wearing us don't have to mean anything bad, there's God's justice, so watch out for us if we're not capable at this stage, but that doesn't mean we don't have to do everything to be not to the villa but to the system and people. Here, so here I know that this is one compromise, but unfortunately there's no deadline here. Here, that's why I called the most. I'm absolutely in favour of having a special document, so we can now call it this, like, let the Council of Ministers call it thinking as a draft, which will regulate procedures and not just extraordinary and special situations. Here is an emphasis on extraordinary and special situations, and they are unfortunately increasingly common in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just from Zvornik, let's remember how many of these extraordinary and special situations have happened, and every time it's happened the same way. And I personally think that there is one, I would say, situation where the system is consciously held... as it is called the "soft abdomen" that it can be opened and closed and against the interests of this country... I am for it, therefore, that we as parliamentarians give a deadline when we get that document from the Council of Ministers here. That's a minimum, because I think 30 days is a maximum deadline, if we're going to work seriously. And without deadlines, this is really unserious, no deadlines. Also in the Anti-Terrorism Strategy, 2015 says, will end in 2015 and we still do not have strategies, and we do not have a deadline when we finish it. 22 So here's not to open any further discussion. I call upon the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General to really base these conclusions which are not ideal, I understand that they are not ideal, but only when we have some quality basis through these documents can we make a contribution, and I think we should get that. And we don't need a strategy in '16. A strategy that will start in '15, I don't know if she, at what stage, could the minister give us an answer, I think the deadlines should be for all these conclusions for 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u742	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Tadić, First Deputy. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. These reactions from the scene weren't random. So when Mr. Podžić spoke of this condition and alarmedly called for something to be done and that we had a system where we couldn't get by, I remembered how we were at those times when it tried to form said that a system would be created in which only those who were enemies of the system would be able to manage. And here we are. So today, only in this system is this subject being handled by terrorists. And this God's mercy that's mentioned, it's actually the mercy of these terrorists that they're not more aggressive. But we had arranged systems, full responsibility for parts of this country's territory called Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there was no such thing. And then someone came to their senses, let's turn it all around one way or another to meet some long-term political goals, first of all symbolic characters, do this, do it like that, do it one way, so when you do something that's not connected to this, something to that, etc., and you get what you have. And we warned in time what would happen and now the hook is dead. We know, but it's no problem, the problem is this... political in these security structures that cause people not to trust each other, they don't believe. A cop doesn't trust a cop. The inspector doesn't trust an inspector. One works on the line of war crimes, the other on terrorism, the third on drugs, is in the same bar with the same man who was both a war criminal and a supporter of terrorists and a drug dealer. And everyone's source of information, and he's actually running three of them. And when they turn to a higher authority, this is an estimate of where the work was done, whether someone from political structures is involved and whether to act or not. And then we have cell phones. I am looking at this Information says – The Information was participated, says the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Ministry of RS, SIPA, the Special Prosecutor's Office, etc. Well, be careful, that hair will bother each other. And then what's on the scene, transferring responsibility from one to another. And then you get information here, and it's different, I've commented on what Mr. Nović said, from a place that may be inappropriate, but with his colleagues, I mean, it's parliamentaryism, you have a situation where I should probably be a delegate or an MP or one of you to deal with investigations here, and yet it's not correct to disabling the public when it comes to these things. You know, Mr. Nović, as an experienced man in the field of security, why they take away processors, videos, religious literature, letters, etc. They're means of communication, means of communication. The letter is a means of committing a crime, right? So someone wrote a letter to someone. It's important to investigate what's inside, especially if it's in a foreign language, even if it's Arabic, right? You do not expect the Messengers to inform the contents of that letter and write this letter, then and then. Well, that puts the investigation at risk. It's normal that the brother-in-law will inform the MPs of this, not in detail. He needs the court and the D.A.'s office and everyone else in detail. What are processors? Well, the processors are the things that are put in the computer to collect... 23 information, like USB and a lot of other things. So he must take them away to examine what he has. It's all means of communication, data storage, it's gone a long way, it's got to be excluded. Why is religious literature? This is really ugly writing like this. But do you agree, as a longtime professional, that this may affect the qualification of a crime? So, if this is a religious literature in which one is possibly encouraged by violence, and we know that such literature has, it's full of YouTube of such conversions, there are probably written ones, that it affects the qualification of a crime. Well, he doesn't owe us an inspector now to explain whether he found it or didn't find it at that time. He says I seized it. We'll see about that when the investigation is over. So, and this kind of pressure, to God's professional, is actually pseudoprofessional, because it would be correct to let people do their job. Everything was done by the order of the BiH Court of Justice, for example in this case mentioned by Mr Nović, in co-operation with the Prosecutor's Office, the MUP, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the SIPA. There's the coordination on the spot, everyone, they're all in agreement. What they agreed, what they got, 30 and something, I think there's only two left in custody. It's professional, it's not professional, I'm not getting into it. But when we return to these conclusions, since they are our subject, we plead to them, then let's see if, given what we've got, they're consistent with what we're supposed to get? He says -- the BiH Ministry of Security is tasked with delivering to the Council of Ministers, and then to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a proposal for a document with precise operational procedures for handling under special circumstances and emergency situations, not to read further, etc. I think this is the interest of Republika Srpska, because we have a minister of security from Republika Srpska. When if not now. All these years ago, we didn't have a minister of security in Republika Srpska, now we do. Republika Srpska was the subject of a terrorist attack, the RS Interior Ministry Police Station. I think this is the most convenient moment and the greatest interest in the Republic of Serbia because right now this is done, so we don't wait for another minister from another entity or I don't know what else. When we view as representatives of the Serbian People's Club, we must also take care of it. It's about time we asked the minister of the RS to get into it as the Ministry of Security... We'll have less reason to argue with colleagues from the other two nations when we get that document. What's the document gonna be called? Well, he can't get past us here. We won't vote for him if there's any injury to anything, and I don't expect it to be. So now it's time for that. A new strategy, that's a general question. All information on all acts of terrorism carried out so far. So every discussion here for three or how many years has begun – we have no information. And when Dom finally saddens information, he says what you're looking for now, it's too late. So we need to look for information so we don't talk about things that we're not completely convinced are true or not, at least if we had some level of authenticity of what we're talking about. And if the Ministry of Security can't, who else is going to do this to us. If we were to say now, we are bound by the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska, everyone would tell you what right to commit the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Right? They'd all say so. And we'd be right, we don't have that right. Who can we do? We can get the Department of Security. This point 2, I was not at the session, I apologize to the chair, last time we commented on it, it is completely excess that we oblige all BiH institutions to respect, protect fundamental human rights, freedom guaranteed by the BiH Constitution and international conventions. This is completely extra, this is pointless. This is meaningful, but it's too high, so let's say, let's say it's best I say it. So that's what the Constitution says, so we don't need an extra... 24 This call to the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be complemented by an invitation to NGOs, religious organisations and officials. So, let us face terrorism on the scene, which is largely inspired by the reasons that are beyond these social criteria that we as legislators can treat, are already entering the realm of spirituality. And here's an answer to the question of whether or not someone said it was a violation of human and civil rights. Yes, it is. Different organisation units of the Islamic Religious Community in BiH addressed the human rights ministry, refugees, displaced persons and said it was a violation of human rights. I have protested such a report on the Commission, because, besides the police stations, besides the courts, next to the mayor of the municipalities, next to the security centre, in addition to all possible institutions, our Ministry is informed from, I'm afraid I'll make a mistake if I use a name, I'm not exactly sure what is the name of the organisation form of that religious organization. Well, so they don't inform us, so let's be informed by whoever's obliged to inform us. I do not believe that there is a single application for violations of human and civil rights in connection with this action, as it is called, "Rubin“, does not matter. Well, when they inform us that we're not there, I guess it's more measurable than to be informed by someone for one reason or another, even if they're perhaps the most noble of reasons. That's why it's important. I agree, the police do their job, arrest people, take away equipment that contains means of connections, weapons, carriers, information, etc., all that is necessary for the investigation, what can be committed to the crime of terrorism, especially if it's qualified with religious motives etc., and then the court and the prosecution say nothing you've done. And then what if someone claims it's a scarecrow? But we have to get to the point where we show it's not intimidation. We have had one perfect reaction, both political and professional, and every other Republika Srpska to a terrorist attack in Zvornik, to the RS Police Station, perfect. And then it started to go on and on, and it started to dissuade, and it started... so that we could talk about these things that we're talking about today. And they, in part, were those who took part in this, too, who, for their best purposes, wanted to show some of their own expeditionivity in all the things that followed later. So, it's, in my opinion, and for many years I've been a lawyer, 12.5 years I've been in law enforcement, that's all that happened after the reactions of the Republika Srpska and the Ministry of Security, the timely departure to Zvornik, the search for reports and everything else, it's all been extra, or it doesn't lead to solving this problem. We're only interested in one thing, and that's whether behind the terrorist attack in Zvornik there is support, which we assume exists, because the perpetrator of the attack had a vest on him, which means he didn't intend to be a suicide attack, we presuppose, and he had a spare weapon in a car that he didn't take with him, but we assume he needed to serve on the run, to serve him in defense of a possible breakout of some barricade or something else. Is there, then, someone who prepared him for that attack and waited for him to help him get out of here and end up in Syria as General of ISIL or I don't know what else. Everything else is hollow stories that the public absolutely doesn't care about. If there are such people, as a background, you arrest, if there is no declaration of this incident and we end this story, because further this doesn't make any sense, because obviously we are not able to skip ourselves in the mistakes that have been committed so far in both the RS and the Federation of BiH and the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to fighting terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u744	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Radmanović signed up. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u745	Ladies and gentlemen. We've been listening for 2.5 months to discuss the terrorist attack in Zvornik, and the result is the conclusions we've received today. I've been reading it a few times since yesterday, and I can't believe that the Joint Commission can offer these conclusions after all. Take another good look, please, so there's no mention of the attack in Zvornik, let alone the evaluation of the attack not mention it. Even if it is the fruit of compromise, as Mr. Raguž says, I think it is inadmissible and there must be no compromise. And that's why I want to say a few sentences from a completely different angle than you were saying here today. The responsibility for all this is happening between us politicians, so then we can talk about the responsibility of others and say why we think so. We have not come to the assessment that there has been a terrorist attack in Zvornik, there is no official assessment of such an organ at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there can be no compromise about it, and she couldn't and had no right to the Joint Commission to make these conclusions that are compromises. When you read them, you can either conclude that we don't know what's going on or that we're calling for something to happen again. To start dealing with these things requires a clear stance of politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there is no problem with those in the coordination of police or other bodies, the problem is with us, in our coordination, among the elected representatives of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we make it clear that this is terrorism, then it's a good way to move on and work it out. Well, we didn't say, please. Mr. Tadić several times says it's terrorism, and that's true, but it doesn't say that here. There's no official document, Mr. Mektić, or yours that says it's a terrorist act. And who thought to share in these eight conclusions what happened at the police station, in one group, and human rights after that? Who thought of that? We will not seriously deal with this biggest problem that is not only ours but also regionally, so if you want Europeans, if we continue with these conclusions. If these conclusions are adopted today, we no longer have anyone to ask what he did on that plan. In addition to the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Nović, who I think is good, which should be adopted, I suggest we ask all the chosen ones to focus on this and make it clear what they want. So from the highest authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the police structures. We had a chance to hear things in the debates today, like, among other things, whether or not we know what's going on. I claim, as well as Mr Podžić, that there are people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are trained to fight this, and that they understand everything that is going on. Well, if they'll give us all the information that's been shared, when we're not able to agree and say this is a terrorist act. Then who do they give the information to, and how are we going to keep fighting? I must say that today I am more pessimistic than yesterday, before I read these conclusions, that we will go in general to fight terrorism, that we will find where it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, that we will be able to assess that it is terrorism, and it is at our door, within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if they recognize us with such conclusions that we are not able to adopt our conclusions properly, let alone fight, expect us to have an even worse situation in the very near future. Since I'm against it, since I think we can manage to fight it, I call on us to reverse the situation, to first the politicians agree, not to discuss whether it's a terrorist act when someone attacks the police station. There's no country in the world that wouldn't judge it the second it was a terrorist act, and we didn't say that. It's the beginning of the action. There's no action without it. And if we go back as it goes back in these conclusions, so I remind you that even what happened in Bugojn, when a man wanted to kill 26 whole stations, some in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not consider it a terrorist act. That way we won't go into battle. So I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that the House does not accept these conclusions that do not speak about the Zvornik, and I do not know at all what they are talking about, that one conclusion obliges all the chosen ones to commit immediately, regardless of their annual vacations, the assessment of the state of this and the adoption of tasks for those who have to do so with deadlines, as Mr Raguž said, and plus to adopt the proposal for Mr Nović's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u746	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Mario Karamatić. Excuse me, replica, Mr. Ognjen Tadić, First Deputy. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u747	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it's not a replica in terms of contesting attitudes, but just that the public, there's no other way to log in, to complete it, so not all the people in this room, let alone the public who's following this, are available these materials that we have. And Mr. Radmanović said something that I'm afraid may confuse the public, therefore, about the absence of a qualification of this attack. So, the House of Representatives, which is part of these materials, has in its conclusions since 28.05.2015, under Conclusion 1 made it clear – The House of Representatives condemns a terrorist attack on the Police Station in Zvornik and the murder of a police officer. He's expressing his condolences to the family of the murdered police officer. So it's just a moment, so it's very clearly defined. Now, after that, there was a debate here as we move on as the House of Peoples to act on this. And then it is said that no debate is being held until the Joint Defence and Security Committee has made clear what it would suggest in which direction all these procedures go further. So there's no absence of conviction, but we here said that's how we're gonna do it. _________(?) They accepted that conclusion. They accepted that conclusion. Now, this is what I'm saying for the public's sake, I'm not saying that I'm saying that in this document that we got, this is exactly where it stands, point Ad.11. – The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for the joint defence and security committee of BiH to discuss the Information Council of Ministers on the attack on the Zvornik Police Station. So here's the story here about Zvornik, so you know exactly that he's in Zvornik. And all the conclusions were treated as fighting terrorism. Now, I agree that we can always point out some things and that it's never enough to point them out, but just so we know, so we're very much aware that it's a terrorist attack, that it doesn't turn out now that we don't have a say in it. I'd suggest one thing, if that's okay with you. Maybe we should take a break, agree, since you're watching these Commission conclusions, they're not a sacred letter to us, so we can formalize these conclusions the way we like it. Through these discussions we heard more of it. My colleague Bariša Čolak suggested that we go in the direction of saying that everything that has been said today is the base of what the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers will continue to do. Maybe it's a better thing, when I look at all this, that no one would say anything later, you didn't, etc., we weren't precise enough, to take a break and get the club bosses to agree on all the additions that other promoters have, as Mr. Raguž's proposor was on his own, to agree on one text of conclusions that would be such that it's generally acceptable. Which, of course, is thought to have been a terrorist attack, and to condemn it, and to insult the deadlines and to say about what direction it should go. I think that, Mr. Chairman, would make sense. Here, if we as a college give a break one half hour to get it together, we don't need this over our knees, anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u749	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Radmanović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u750	Nothing against the break, but we need to clarify things correctly, as Mr. Tadić says, for the public. In the title of Opinion with a proposal for a conclusion on the attack on Zvornik Police Station, Mr. Tadić, ladies and gentlemen, the public does not say in the terrorist attack. So we're not talking about the conclusions of the House of Representatives, we're talking about these conclusions that are here, eight of them don't mention Zvornik without talking about terrorism. So, it works for the public, as you say. And I didn't argue that you spoke clearly about it, but I argued that we had no agreement on it. Because it's inappropriate to have a discussion if we don't agree on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u751	Thank you. I'd like to finish the debate anyway so that if we take a break, yes, Mr. Karamatić has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u752	Here, I must say, I agree with all the debaters before me. I absolutely support what Mr. Podžić said that our police and security structures just don't work like this, and there's something we have to do to make it work. So, we have all these sequences where police or security services don't do their jobs, starting with a terrorist attack in Zvornik, so after that disgrace in the Potocari we witnessed, so here's to these last days when the wrestling season is open in Tuzla Canton, houses, stables, cars are on fire, the police won't even get a look at it. What I was going to say and suggest, something similar to Mr. Tadić's suggestion. As a member of this Joint Defence and Security Committee, I must say that we have had a very heated debate, the topic is quite difficult. And then after the terrorist attack in Zvornik, then we had a unanimous conviction of a terrorist attack by all political officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina and then politics got involved. And I'm afraid, if there's a suggestion that this will come back to the Defense and Security Committee again, what our conclusions will come to. Because we here, so this is an act that's involved in a terrorist attack, a man has been killed, a terrorist has entered a 28 police station, and we have a precise operational procedure in case of a political attack to run away from comments on portals. So that's what we figured out. Gentlemen, we can't do better in this relationship of strength. And here, and my proposal was supposed to be that either members of the Colleges or members of the Colleges with the presidents of the clubs of the people sit down to accept either these conclusions or to make some others, but to agree with them, because on the Joint Committee we won't be able to agree, there will be a heated debate going on again, and there's nothing we can do about it. This is really the maximum we've drawn with a huge contribution from both Mr. Podžić and Mr. Bojić and Mrs. Krišto. And this is the best that we as a Commission can do. And I'm saying, a precise, operational procedure is to erase the comments on the portals so that no one sees anyone cursing what something was. That means our conclusion to the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u753	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Babalj, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u754	...is the replica or discussion to Mr Nović, Podžić and Mr Radmanović. Well, we all mention the public, so I believe we all don't know what we're talking about, not that the public will be what we're talking about. We're dealing with whether it's a terrorist attack, if it's not a terrorist attack, we all know it's a terrorist attack. But what happened to that cop's family, I don't think anyone's talking about him or thinking about him. I think we should all work on how to improve the system. How are we going to improve the system? I think politics, what you are, Mr. Radmanović and Mr. Nović and Podžić, would say, would be the most responsible for this. Now, the representatives of this policy are both in security and intelligence, and in this, this, this, this, this, someone's people. So whose people are the directors of one agency today, other agencies, third agencies, fourth agencies and fifth agencies? Now that you're pulling me by the tongue, I'm going to tell you that these are not the people of the Serbian Democratic Party, but that these are people close to the SNSD who should be doing some things to solve the problems that we're dealing with here today. So how do we solve the problems? So we're setting these people up tomorrow in a way that they're professionals. Is what surprises me here when I, being joked on by the Security Commission, there are a lot of generals, military and police, so me and my colleague say we're from the real sector, which is what we're dealing with today and we're not dealing with the causes. The system has been made nakaradically, with the respect of dear colleague Mr. Podžić and dear colleague Mr. Nović, you are retired by making this system. What am I supposed to think about this system because I wasn't involved in creating this system? After these discussions today, not that I'm worried, but I just don't have words. And let's refrain from politics. The next 2016 report, which is, is known to be a responsible policy for these things, which I hope will never happen again. Let's take a little responsibility on your back and say you didn't do a good system that worked. Not to elaborate on what you've been up to now, and what I'm saying is I feel personally called a member of the Commission who has nothing to do with this system that we're in today. Give us a little tolerance not to drag politics into all of this, but to look for solutions so that these things never happen again. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u755	Thank you. We seem to have exhausted the debate, no more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u756	Sifet Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u757	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Podžić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u758	...to say I'm proud of that part of the security system that I participated in, I'm really proud of. But I pointed out to each other or as someone calls it public, internal and diverse definitions, that the other part of the security system is not definitely done properly and should be done. But when I continued my discussion I said – I am now speaking as a citizen, because I care about my children in this coordination of police agencies and the challenge of the 21st century. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u759	Replica one more, please, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u760	Just a sentence, to what Mr. Babalj said. No director or deputy director of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police or intelligence agencies is a member of the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u761	Okay, thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Raguž signed up, you can be a replica, Mr. Raguž, you can't anymore, you've already had a discussion on this matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u762	Thank you very much. I respect that. So, as far as the conclusions are concerned, our conclusions that have circulated from more than one representative, so I just want to say here are clearly said, regardless of what they are the fruit of the compromise and what we've heard is that we can't get better, so we're not trying to get them back, they say it's the maximum. Now inside of that, why did I focus on one, a, b) and c), because that's what you're looking for, here's what you're talking about, and politically, it should be converted into a new strategy. I guess that political mind and agreement are created through strategies that need to be made. And here let's give a deadline for this strategy to be made. She clearly says fight terrorism. And give me a hand. Here, not now, and also this first conclusion under a) clearly states that there are no operating procedures for extraordinary and special circumstances now. Let's give it 30 days of politics, and politics is the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives, etc. Here, I don't think we're exhausting ourselves, I think we need to be concrete when we get something of quality so that we can have a debate without playing ping-pong now, it's clear that the 30 fight against terrorism is global, that it is a strong threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to all its citizens and peoples, and that we need to face it responsibly. We can do this through strategies, through procedures without questioning jurisdiction, but by building a functional system and seeing who's responsible for it and the way people are then chosen, here's how I'm not going to say now whether someone's a formal member of a party or not when we all know, we all know and we don't talk any more. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u763	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Now we have some, in my opinion, two possibilities, here's to let me say, we have the possibility, so to take a break and try to make a deal, we have the possibility of, of course, here's to plead individually, we already have two envoys, so two suggestions for conclusions. I would now be free, if of course you would like to accept it and appreciate that it would be a variant from which we could, in order to get out of this situation right now, in my opinion, rather complicated situation, which would help us to make this whole sector better, I would personally suggest that, instead of these four, we add the fifth conclusion that we, as a House, would assign all the institutions to take into account the discussion of today's session in realising these conclusions. Why would I suggest that? I suggest because I appreciate that this is how we would get out of this situation, and institutions would be obliged to take this debate into account. I'm afraid of anything else that we won't come up with a solution that will help solve these problems. Here, I think this would really be a compromise solution that would help us as a home, but here, of course, I'm not the one who can decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u764	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u765	Well, if you appreciate it, here's to help some 15-minute break, but I'm asking you no more than 15 minutes, because I'm afraid we're not going to solve this issue that way, but here, since as a college I'm giving 15 minutes off. Please be precise, it's 13:10 a.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u766	The club chiefs can come over here and try to get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u767	Let the club chiefs come in. / Dear envoys and envoys, we continue our work. Since we have concluded, therefore, the debate, that is, I now conclude if we have not concluded, we are no longer, I am not sure, but I am now concluding the debate, so on this agenda point. And we have reached an agreement, so here in the College and together with the club heads to plead, so on the conclusions, on the proposal for the Joint Defence Commission's conclusion and 31 security on the discussion of the Council of Ministers' Information on the attack on the Police Station in Zvornik and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska and then to make clear on a special conclusion, here which we have agreed here, so in the College together with the club heads, where we will commit all the institutions, therefore, to make a special conclusion, that, in the realization of these conclusions, they must take into account the debate from today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u769	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u770	Of course, including the deadlines and everything that's been said here today. I ask you to prepare yourselves, so first for a statement on the proposal for the Joint Committee's conclusions. You can vote. Of the 12 – 8 present were for, 3 were against and 1 abstention. From Federation of BiH 6 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from RS 2 for, 3 against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH on the debate on the Information Council of Ministers on the attack on the Police Station in Zvornik, and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska's area were adopted. Now, I ask you to prepare yourself for a statement on the conclusion that has been agreed on, and it is said - The institutions are obliged to take into account the debate from today's House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u771	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-30-0.u772	So, all that was at the session today, what was suggested. I'm asking you to prepare for a plea. You can vote. Of the 12 present – for it was 11, against no one, 1 abstention. From Federation of BiH 7 for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 4 for, none against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find this conclusion accepted. Let's go to the next one, that's the 12th item on the agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 12. A report with the conference on the subject: “The achievement and protection of human rights and freedoms through the legislative framework, the current state and plans of BiH institutions in the field of human rights” with a proposal for conclusions, the materials of the Joint Committee on Human Rights since 27.07.2015. You have received a report from the Conference on the topic "The Realisation and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms through the Legislative Framework, the current state and plans of BiH institutions in the field of human rights" with 32 proposals for conclusions contained in it, delivered by the Joint Commission for Human Rights. At its 15th session, held on 22 July 2015, the House of Representatives adopted that Report with the conclusions of the Joint Committee contained therein. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now, please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the report. You can vote. Out of those 12 to 12 were for, no one against, no one restrained. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Conference on the subject: "The realization and protection of human rights and freedom through the legislative framework, the current state and plans of BiH institutions in the field of human rights" with the proposal for the conclusions contained in it was adopted. We're going to the 13th agenda, that's Ad. 13. Giving consent to ratifying Supplement 2. Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, relating to the horizontal nuclear security programme and radiation protection under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance
