ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u165	I hope we can begin with the second follow-up of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and fellow delegates, MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the international community, respected media representatives. I warmly welcome you and I agree that we will continue the work of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since the continuation of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was suspended on 11 February 2015 during the discussion of the second item of the session's adopted agenda, the session will continue to discuss the remainder of the agenda, which is the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples. The continuation of the constitutional session, as informed, is attended by 15 delegates, five from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. So we move on to the second item of the agenda, which is, Ad. 2. Selection of the chairperson, first and second vice-president of the House of Nationals First, we should propose a candidate for the presidency of the People's House, and in this case, the seat of the chairman belongs to a candidate from the Croatian or Serbian people, then we propose the first deputy chairman of the Bosniak or Serb people, and then the second deputy chairman of the Croatian or Bosniak people. I would like to remind you that Article 22 is Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are scheduled for the following – the House chairman is automatically rotating on the post, without voting, every eight months, starting from the election day of the chairman. And now I ask the chairman of the Croatian or Serbian People's Club to propose a candidate for the People's House of Speakers. Does anyone have a name for the club?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u167	That's a nice greeting to all those present. Thank you, President. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Croatian People's Representatives' Club for the President of the Croatian People's House of Peoples, unanimously proposes Mr Bariš Čolak. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u168	Thank you very much. Do any of the delegates have a proposal for the chairman of the Croatian People's House? We find that there isn't. So we can move to a vote on a proposal from the Croatian People's Club to choose Mr Bariša Čolak as the candidate of the People's Presidency. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. We find that all 15 delegates voted. For 12, against no one, abstention 3. So there's an absolute, both entity and general majority, and I find that Mr. Bariša Čolak has been elected as the chairman of the House of Peoples. We now move to the vote, i.e. I now ask the chairman of the Bosniak or Serbian people's club to propose a candidate for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples. Any suggestions? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u169	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 7(2), The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 29 January, when the constitution of this House began, in 2015, the Bosniak People's Delegation Club unanimously decided on a proposal for a candidate for the chairman, i.e. the vice-president, as they rotated by automatedity, the House of Peoples. So for the chairman, i.e. vice-president of the House of Peoples, delegate Safet Softić is proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u170	Thank you very much. Do any of the delegates have a proposal for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples? /Shortly interrupted video/ Technique failed a little bit, if, well, we'll be better able to master the technique than relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u171	Oh, well, thank you. Given the business provision to be first elected by the chairman, then the first vice-president, and then the second vice-president, the proposal that I tabled over the presidency of the Bosniak people should be voted after a proposal from the Serb people, given the rotation that has been agreed between the two homes. So in this House, it is chaired by the Croatian people, the first chairman of the order of the Serb people, and the second chairman of the Bosniak people, for the reason that this is related to the former during the rotations, as well as the rotation in the House of Representatives. So we should first hold a vote on 3 proposals from the Serbian People's Club for the first deputy chairman and then for the second deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u172	Okay, thank you very much. We remain, therefore, on the candidate's proposal, but the vote will take place after the vote in the order of the Serb people. I now ask the chairman or representative of the Serbian People's Club to propose a candidate for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples. Mr. Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u173	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, delegates to the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to inform you that in accordance with Article 7(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House, the Serbian People's Delegates Club failed to reach a single position, so the Club will not have a proposal for a candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u174	Thank you very much. Does any of the delegates have a proposal for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples? Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u175	First of all, I'd like to say hello to all of you. So I, too, will appeal to the obligation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 7 to propose as a delegate Mr Ognjen Tadić as First Deputy Chairman of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u176	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I understand that Mr. Ognjen Tadić was proposed on behalf of Mr. Darka Babalj. I'd like technical services to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that out of the 15 present, all 15 delegates voted. For 11, it wasn't, abstention four. There's a general and entity majority. And I find that Mr. Ognjen Tadić has been elected the first chairman of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. 4 Since the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club has already proposed his candidate for the second chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Safet Softić, Sifet or Safet?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u177	Safeta.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u178	Safet, well, to be exact, Mr. Safet Softić. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I understand all 15 delegates voted. For 12, there is no, abstention 3, that there is an absolute entity and general majority. And I find that Mr. Safet Softić has been elected second vice chairman. Congratulations to the newly elected chairman and vice-president of the House of Peoples. I wish you successful work, with a desire for all together, and especially you from this pay phone to be the ones who will wisely, wisely manage this House of People, without arguing tones, with a desire to do a good job in the next four-year term. And I call upon the elected, chairman, first deputy and second vice president to take their seats. Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-16-0.u179	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Here's my sincerest thanks for the confidence shown. I hope that together with my colleagues from the College, but with all of you, I will contribute to making a good job for Bosnia and Herzegovina through these four years, a good job for all the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that the atmosphere in this House will be constructive, and I also wish that we can achieve in particular good successes in all fields, but especially in the fields of European integration. Thank you very much. And of course I'm closing the session. Session completed at 11:25 p.m.
