ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u863	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is attended by 15 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serbian people. As indicated in your call for today’s session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed for the envoys to ask questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 10th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure for Asking Envoys Asked Questions in Oral form: Ambassador Sead Kadić – for Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Minister Slavko Matanović; Ambassador Martin Raguž – for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić and Minister, Mr Josip Grubeša; Ambassador Mario Karamatić – for the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Mr Slavko Matanović. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the announcement were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155(1) of our Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u864	Dear Chairman, co-chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, delegates, all present, I welcome you all together. 2 In accordance with Article 155. I am asking the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples the question of the Minister of Transport and Communications at the Council of Ministers of BiH, which refers to the following. As you know, the Unsko-San canton, from which I come, is one of the most remote cantons with about 300,000 inhabitants and very poor traffic infrastructure. We don't have any quality traffic that connects us to the rest of the country, we don't have any air traffic, we don't have an airport that would completely resuscitate the Un-San canton. On these issues, there is a sign of improvement in the situation, but my question concerns the status and perspectives of the Union railway. The UN railway is about 100km long through the BiH Federation entity and about 20km through Republika Srpska's entity. The railroad used to carry 1.5 million passengers a year and carry more than 4 million tons of goods annually. For this reason, we believe that we should step up activities at the opening of the Union railway, especially as we know the interest of representatives of the Dalmatian ports of Sibenik, Zadar and Split, as well as representatives of the authorities in the counties of the Republic of Croatia who are gravitating the Union railway of Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar and Split-Dalmatia. Thank you very much, that's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u865	Thank you. The minister will answer. Mr. Minister Slavko Matanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u866	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The answer to the question of the honourable envoy Kadić. The UN-San canton is far from the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina and many other regions, thus being less connected, and the claim from the issue is entirely true about air traffic because there is no adequate airport. However, highways and regional roads in this area are constructively well built but the problem of systematic and planned maintenance, especially M5 in the direction towards the east, is in part Key-Jajce. This road connects points Izačić and... the entire diagonal west-east and should be on the... network as a European road E761, but is not included because the Republic of Croatia disagreed with this because of environmental problems in the area of Plitvice Lakes. The situation can certainly be improved, and this depends predominantly on the plans and initiative of the Federation of BiH. The importance of the Union railway was great in the earlier period but the Republic of Croatia and the country of environments rerouted goods and passenger flows, especially by building the Zagreb-Split-Ploče highway, and by strengthening Luke Rijeka. However, an agreement on the joint use of the Union railway between the Croatian Railways and the Federation of BiH has been signed. However, after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU in June 2013, the security services of the Republic of Croatia did not accept the agreed means of communication, i.e. crossing the border of the two countries, the possibility of meeting all the safety criteria to open this railway, which was discussed this summer when visiting our Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u867	Thank you. Would the esteemed envoy like to comment on the answer to the question? Are you satisfied with the answer? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u868	I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u869	Thank you. Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u870	Thank you. A warm greeting to all present. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, Mr. President and Minister of Justice, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in fact it was addressed to the Ministry of Justice, because you yourself said that in the announcement, you should also do so to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, so I don't mind if Mr. Prime Minister wants him to be involved in the answer to this question, I would be pleased. So it refers to structural dialogue, its consequences, implications, dynamics, results, and what does it bring for Bosnia and Herzegovina? And in light of the need to ensure an independent position of the judiciary and its full reform, which we see is... the requirement of all relevant structures in the case of the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the context of the already announced referendum on the review of the jurisdiction of the highest judicial posts at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which context and what consequences such a situation has directly on the fact that such an unsettled situation in the judiciary, which best illustrates the fact that there are more than 2 million pending cases. How do the Ministry and the Council of Ministers see, meaning, reforming this important area? Given the ministry's role, it is to create policies, propose amendments to the laws relating to this area and with particular reference to the politicisation of the whole process and to the decision-making of the judiciary, which is a category that has been used very often in public lately, especially when it comes to selectivity and politicisation when it comes to the trial of war crimes, and I will eventually further explain it when I hear the answer to this first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u871	Thank you. Who on behalf of the Council of Ministers? Minister Grubeš. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u872	The Honorable Chairman, co-chaired, respected envoys, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The structural dialogue in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the auspices of the European Commission was launched in 2011 with an unequivocal intention and an affirmative goal of continuing reforms in the Bosnian-Herzegovina judiciary in the direction of eliminating the perceived shortcomings and inconsistencies, and with the primary task of building a modern justice system and rule of law under already recognised and international criteria and standards. As part of these efforts in 2014, a... workshop was held on the same topic in early September of this year. So, there is a stalemate in this process and that fact no longer relevant is disputed, and the reasons at this point are counterproductive to speak. The separation of the structured dialogue sessions to the ministerial and executive, i.e. the expert part, has been the topic of many discussions since I took over the dialogue in June 4th. Even greater controversy prompted the signing of a protocol in Brussels, with ministers giving their consent to... a workshop to be considered except for the 2013 Justice Ministry's proposal and the Republika Srpska Justice Ministry's proposal. The media's attention is fully focused on trivial things and no one has accompanied the progress made in processing war crimes. In the same period, a strategy was adopted for reforming the justice sector that was to be adopted two years ago, which led to Bosnia and Herzegovina not respecting its obligations under the international contract and other tranches of IPA funds, intended to finance judicial employees, not being released. This, as everyone knows, led to the dismissal in the judiciary, and most of all in the prosecutions where the resources for the work of personnel admitted to war crimes cases, which are planned for payments from IPA funds, are not provided in a different way. According to my information, most of the county's prosecutors have found a way to fund prosecutors. The BiH Department of Justice has found funds to pay the employees of the Department of Criminal Defence who were equally admitted in the same capacity. The biggest problem remained in the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office where a total of 23 people were left without pay and 14 were fired. 25 people were left without pay in Republika Srpska and 18 were fired. 44 people were left with salaries in the Federation of BiH and 1 person was fired, while 2 people were left without a salary in Brcko District. When I say no pay, I mean that by one point there was enough funding without getting paid for some time, with it varying from the level and the court that the funds were found by internal restructuring or some other means. At a meeting in Brussels, I met an EU delegation representative that the Strategy was adopted and that all conditions for the release of the tranche were met. On this occasion, I am familiar with the fact that the release of funds is a complex job within the EU itself and that it is therefore necessary to take certain steps, both by Bosnia and Herzegovina and by the EU. Since the BiH Ministry of Justice has also carried out the last obligation, which is a condition for the release of another tranche, I believe the funds will be operational by the end of this month, but it is now on the delegation, because the process of releasing this tranche is not simple, nor can it be completed immediately. The security of these funds will strengthen the judiciary and contribute to the resolution of war crimes cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u873	Thank you, Minister. Is Ambassador Raguž satisfied with the answer? Would you like to comment? Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u874	Yes, of course. In part, I am pleased, thanking Mr. Minister for this kind of response, but he did not actually hit those essential answers that I expected, and that is whether and to what extent the judiciary is currently independent and how much the policy process is present, what conferences are announced around the referendum on this process of structured dialogue and this future reform of the judiciary. And in the context of war crimes issues, I would just like to say that in the last few months, and even longer, we have come forward very prominent and high-ranking officials and representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even the party nominated by Mr. Minister, who is talking about politicisation of the judiciary, especially when it comes to the trial of war crimes in a way that a whole nation is being stigmatised, that through the process of selective prosecution, when it comes to qualifications for criminal enterprise, when it comes to members of HVO officers. So, I expected to see this reform heading towards preventing any political influence and ensuring that anyone responsible for the crime is tried and respected the victims, 5 but not using the judiciary process and also in this area to achieve unrealised political goals. So that's not the kind of answer I got, maybe some other time or in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u875	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u876	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the College and Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to Mr Matanović, Minister of Transport and Communications of BiH, and concerns the creation of a Transport Development Strategy. Some of you will remember, back in the 8th session, when we adopted that Development Plan, I was saying it was the wrong way, because you can't make a plan if you don't have a strategy, she should have gone before. And then I also asked if it was true that they were planning to allocate funds from the budget for the same strategy, then I had information that it was a million euros. In the meantime, it proved to be less true, not entirely. Since the Ministry of Transport asked the Council of Ministers to grant them 450,000 euros for the creation of a Transport Development Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 2030, but now I am interested, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has over 100 employees – what kind of experts are they who need to do this strategy, is there anyone in the Ministry employed and knows their job? Why is this an impossible mission to do in the office hours there? I assume at the Ministry of Transport that, for example, there is someone who understands the area of transport so that in the next month, it could do so within its working hours and not have monthly incomes of 10, 15,000 euros, as envisaged by this, means almost as a high representative. We have no real use for the High Representative either, but we obviously have no use for the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH either. I would also like to know if the minister is planning to remove the ministry as everything that needs to be done he is looking for consultants and experts on the side. I am also interested, among those experts who will charge tens and hundreds of thousands of marks and euros in the development of this transport strategy, are the ministry employees envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u877	Thank you. Minister Matanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u878	Thank you. The financing of the development of two strategic documents Transport Strategy and the Action Plan was originally planned and approved by IPA funds, but the funds over one million euros were lost in 2014, because the precondition was not met, and this was adopted Framework Transport Policy and agreed on a project task for the development of the Strategy. This year, Transport policy was adopted in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly after eight years of unsuccessful attempt. The proposal to finance the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport since this year for the implementation of these two 6 strategic documents from funds provided by the universal mobile telecommunications system licenses has not yet been agreed and accepted by the Council of Ministers, but is in preparation. The project task to develop a 14-page Transport Strategy with an estimate of costs of EUR 379.020 was agreed in 2014 by a working group composed of representatives of the entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, following the approval of funds for the creation of the Strategy, it was planned to launch public procurement procedures. The truth for the will of the original coster proposal by the French consultants from 2012 was a million euros under the Twinning project, but the coster was reduced to 379,020 euros in accordance with the project's half-2014 task. It should be noted here that the adoption of the Transport Strategy and the Action Plan is one of the key preconditions for IPA II funding in 2015 until 2020, i.e. for grants accompanying this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u879	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is the envoy satisfied with the offer of an answer? Does he want to comment on it? Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've asked some more questions to which I haven't received an absolutely no answer, so in accordance with Article 155. I ask to be provided with an answer in writing. I also asked the question to Mr. Minister, and at the last session, which concerned the digitalisation process. I didn't get the answer, and I'm also asking for it to be delivered to me in writing. And since the sessions are being recorded, here I would like to ask Mr. Minister to take a tone from this session so that in response to the question I asked last time, and which is why some TV houses freed the fees for using radio spectrum, thereby reducing the budget by 815,572 KM, thereby bringing commercial televisions that are still required to pay for it, favoured certain commercial televisions and certain public services. And that's it. I hope I'll be happy when I get an answer in writing. I also promised the Minister I was, when I asked the last question, if he could convince me that I would give him an iPhone 6, here he was conveniently packed in orange, but I'm not satisfied with the answer so this means of communication will end up with someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u881	Thank you, Mr Karamatić, but this part of the question you have asked will have to be asked in writing, if this is a new question, because this is now the answer to the questions already asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u882	No microphone 7 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u883	No need, only if you answer this question that was asked earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u884	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u885	Yeah, that can do it, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u886	I might still win the iPhone if I respond properly. Dear envoy Karamatić has asked us a question about digitisation... gives us the opportunity to expose prejudices and negative views on this important topic with arguments. One of the most common wrong ideas about the distribution of equipment and the handover of public tv services is that public services are given something. By decision of the Council of Ministers on the distribution of equipment provided under the first phase of the Digitalisation Project, equipment shall be given to public services under strict conditions which determine the purpose and method of use of it. The equipment is part of a unique signal transmission system that will allow all three public services to be seen on every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory from now on. In this way, equipment installed in Republika Srpska, in addition to its own RTRS needs, also serves the needs of public services and citizens of the Federation of BiH as well as equipment installed in the Federation area serves both the citizens of the Federation and the citizens of Republika Srpska. It is an integrated system whose individual parts function as a single unit under the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers' last decision on the distribution of digitisation equipment is in line with the Emissions Sector Policy, the Microwave Connections Project of public tv services and all previous decisions of the Council of Ministers on digitisation. The broadcasting policy clearly states that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged and obliged to provide public TV services with legal, economic and financial conditions for the implementation of digitisation in accordance with the Recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers 2003/9. The project, adopted 14.07.2010 – The owners of analogue equipment will own new digital equipment. Public services must be editorially independent and institutionally independent, and in order to do so they need to manage and dispose of their own assets. This is in line with Recommendation 96/10 of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which reflects Article 4. The law on the tv system. In the proposed Treaty, which refused to sign RTRS, which also delayed the whole digitalisation process, the equipment remained the property of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and was given to the serivers for use, management and maintenance without compensation. This ministry had no problem calling things the right name, but we made sure the contract ensures that equipment is used strictly for the purpose of building a unique system whose heritage will be all public services and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether they are citizens of Republika Srpska or citizens of the Federation. So, the Ministry has not given anyone anything, it simply implements the policies, strategies and decisions of the Council of Ministers on digitisation. The ministry only implemented those decisions, which finally led Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet the commitments it made in 2009 by ratification of the Geneva Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u887	Thank you, Mr. Minister. 8 Would the envoy like to comment on the proposed answer? Are you satisfied with the answer? Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u888	As I understand it, the digitisation equipment is owned by Republika Srpska's tv. Of course I'm not happy with the answer. It was the Ministry's job to secure the terms and conditions, not to give them to anyone. Unfortunately, Minister iPhone may be another time, and please provide me with an answer and in writing, just let it have for future generations who did what and how he did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u889	Thank you. To this day...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u890	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u891	My apologies, Sifet Podžić signed up. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u892	Mr. Chairman. I'm really asking, uh, but since I think... just one session, then I'm going to take over from your colleague Tadić, and hopefully we'll adopt the Code of Conduct today, and this kind of thing won't be allowed anymore. I think it's about time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u893	Thank you. Until today's session, a written response to the oral question of envoy Dragutin Rodić, set at the 9th session of the House of Peoples, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, was also submitted. Does the envoy want to comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u894	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u895	Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u896	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I just want a little bit. I did get the answer and I got it very quickly because it was a asked question at the previous session. I can say that I am in principle satisfied with the answer and I received that answer from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the House itself. What, uh, maybe taking care of some experience from a previous period, and the previous 5 9 years have been constantly talking about the coordination mechanism, I think it was also a condition for the opening of these negotiations. I want to say that these activities, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, are optimistic that we will go, I think, without the coordination mechanism, without the adopted, agreed, we will not be able to respond to the challenges ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u897	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Now we're going to the agenda of today's session. For the 10th session, I propose the following amended and updated : Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Envoy Sredoje Nović's request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Single Parent Code by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No:02-02-119/15 of 05.10.2015; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15 of 02.07.2015 and 18/08/2015; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Envoys Ognjen Tadić and Darko Babalj, Law No: 02- 02-1-10/15 of 28.07.2015, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on Asylum (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-12/15 of 06/08/2015, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-116/15 of 07/09/2015; 7. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-117/15 of 11/09/2015; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-8/15, of 21.09.215. Nine. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, issue: 01,02-02-4-1086/15 of 31.07.2015; 10. Report on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces and police officers in peace support operations from 1 July to 31 December 2014, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-03-1110/15 of 10.08.2015; 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2014, issue: 05/1-50-13-29-9-7/15 of 19.08.2015, and Plan of the Independent Committee for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-818/15 of 17.06.2015; 10 12. Proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for acceptance and integration of bh. citizens returning to BiH on the basis of the Readmission Agreement and the Proposal for an Action Plan for the period 2015-2018, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 03,01,02-41-1049/15 of 23.07.2015; 13. Proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation to draft the Amendments and Supplements Act for the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO – Proposer: Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-9,3/15 of 22/09/15; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1229/15 of 22/09/15; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the location of Trska Gora, Municipality of Dvor - Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1105/15 of 22.09.2015; 16. The appointment of two members of the BiH Appeal Office and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two members of the BiH Appeal Office and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, issue: 01.02-50-14-407,8/15 of 29.09.2015; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Poland to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion on income and capital, No: 01,02-05-2-1169/15 of 08/09/2015; 18. Approval to ratify the Application Management Protocol with the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, No: 01,02-05-2-1170/15 of 08.09.2015; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa-free travel, No: 01,02-05-2-1171/15 of 08/09/2015; 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the rights and obligations of the use of water from public water supply systems cut by state border, No: 01,02-05-2-1172/15 of 08.09.2015; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Global Environment Fund (GEF) Grant Agreement for the preparation of a regional project for the management of the Drina River Basin between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, issue: 01,02-05-2-1173/15 of 08.09.2015; 22. Approving the ratification of the Agreement on the Grant of the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) to prepare a regional project for the management of the Drina River Basin between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the function of the 11th Agency for the Implementation of the Special Climate Change Fund, issue: 01.02-05-2-1174/15 of 08.09.2015; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on Readmission and Implementing Protocol on the procedures for the application of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on Reading, No. 01.02-05-2-195/15 of 15.09.2015; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union Customs 2020 programme, No: 01,02-05-2-1196/15 of 15/09/2015; 25. Granting consent to the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Italy under the European Convention on Extradition of 13.12.1957 with a view to extending and facilitating its application, No: 01.02-05-2-1234/15 of 28.09.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any suggestions for a change and a supplement? In the absence of amendments and additions, the agenda shall be adopted and shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There's no application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 15 present – for all 15, therefore there was no opposition and abstention. From the Federation of BiH 10 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. I am establishing the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Envoy Sredoje Nović's request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Single Parent Code by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u900	Dear members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Articles 94 and 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been submitted by the draft law on the completion of the Single Parent Number Act for consideration and adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I suggested that the proposal for a law supplementing the Single Parent Code be considered by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. For the adoption of this Act, there is a constitutional basis, and the main reason for the adoption of the Law is this. The Law establishing the Municipality of Stanari (‘the Official Messenger of Republika Srpska’, number: 83/14), established the Municipality of Stanari, the separation of the town of Stanari and 13 other less populated towns that were part of the town of Doboj. That Law lays down certain obligations and deadlines for the establishment of local self-government bodies, and thus there is a need for the establishment of relevant services within the jurisdiction of Republika Srpska's internal affairs authorities. A problem has arisen in the process of determining a single birth number for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which it is necessary to implement appropriate amendments to the Single Parent Code. In particular, it is the fact that, in the procedure required for the determination of a single birth number in the electronic application of the system on the list of municipalities, i.e. the registration areas, there is no Stanari municipality, and for this reason, no procedure for determining the unique home number for the population in that municipality can be implemented. In order to be classified as a registration area in that application, it is necessary to complete the Law in that sense, in such a way as to ensure that Article 5(1) of point 2. The law, which added the registration area of Stanari to the number of registers in Republika Srpska, in addition to those registration areas, for the number of registrations 12, as proposed by the Law. The basic principle on which the bill is based is the principle of respect for human rights, since without this amendment it is impossible to implement, among other things, the determination of a unique home number, the issue of personal documents, health care, enrolment in schools, etc. The bill is based on the principle of harmonisation of legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I would just like to point out is that law enforcement would be provided within the institutions of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records, Data Exchange and the competent authorities of entities, cantons and Brcko District. The implementation of the Law does not require additional financial resources from the budget of the BiH institutions. The proposal for a law supplementing the Single Parent Code is very simple and is the result of the harmonisation of the legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I do not think that there is any need for further consolidations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u901	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Genjac answered. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u902	I thank the chairman. Dear presence. 13 This is one of the laws that has been proposed in a way that truly meets the assumptions that the Rules of Procedure requires for emergency procedure, and there is urgency and such a degree of simplicity is that it can indeed be adopted in one reading. Therefore, the Bosniak Club will support both emergency procedures and these necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u903	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 14-14 were there for, against, and without abstention. From Federation of BiH 9 for, no one abstention, no one against, RS 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority there's an entity majority. I am establishing a request for an examination of the draft law supplementing the Single Parent Number Act by an urgent procedure has been adopted. If the request for consideration, therefore adopted, and it has been adopted, I am now opening a debate on the bill itself. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Proposal for a law supplementing the Single Parent Code by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. So we're voting on the law itself. Stand by. You can vote. Of the 14-14 were there for, against, and without abstention. So, from Federation 9 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I'm establishing a law supplementing the Single Parent Number Act has been adopted. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission found that no amendments had been tabled, accepted the bill's proposal, and proposed that it be adopted by the House. At the 17th session, held on 16 September 2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Law in a second reading. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Committee if he appreciates it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u905	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u906	Okay, thank you. Proposer of the Law if he appreciates that he has needs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. Now I'm opening a debate. Is there any envoy or envoy for the hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 14-14 were there for, against, and without abstention. From Federation of BiH 9 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Law on Supplements to the Law on Infractions was adopted in the second reading. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Envoys Ognjen Tadić and Darko Babalj, with Opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u909	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u910	You don't have to add, well, so like in the report. I give the word to the law's promoter if he appreciates the need. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u911	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. So it was clear to Mr. Dark Babalj as a co-proposer and to me that we are in one situation where we practically need to solve the square of the circle, and that therefore each written solution potentially causes a particular kind of discussion that can affect whether this solution will be adopted or not. We thought that by emergency intervention on this Law, given that we had found some measure of amendments to this Act we were responding and that already one part of the people who had lost their jobs in the meantime, and cannot obtain the conditions for obtaining a pension in Republika Srpska, were saved from such a life injustice and living circumstances for which they themselves are directly not responsible. Today we are in a situation where we have two facts on the table. First, even though we have turned this into a regular procedure, there was therefore an opportunity to intervene anyone, whether it was an MP or a delegate, a commission member, or a member of the Council of Ministers in a certain way, or someone from the NGO sector. It's not real, we didn't get any concrete correction from this text, which we can only conclude that, let's say, the correction might just spoil the existing text that we suggested Mr. Babalj and I. I can't believe that someone knows a solution without telling it, because then it would be malicious, and I don't want to believe in the malice of any of the MPs or delegates or members of the Council of Ministers, in a broad sense, now I'm not speaking without calling, of course, anyone. So we found some measure in what we solved. So that's one fact, because I'm sure there's another better solution to say -- let's write it down and solve it that way. However, the other problem is more difficult. It refers to whether there is political will and in general, through remarks we have heard publicly or through work in committee bodies, this political will exists in terms – so it does not prevent you from solving this problem in Republika Srpska because it is the citizens of Republika Srpska. And that's correct if we're going to apply it in each area, that everyone has their own inhabitants, everyone has everything they think they have and that there's no need to talk about any individual things then we're talking about here. This attitude, as meaningful as it may be, has a problem because these people, although they are citizens of Republika Srpska, are people to whom we are employers and practically self-procuring competitions for any of these jobs we tell people at the beginning, so the conditions are such that you will not have guaranteed all human and civil rights, meaning from that social package of rights, so to social civil rights, as some other people who live in this country again, and have one other place of residence. Now there was an observation about possible discrimination. Whether someone with a place of residence in the Federation was discriminated against because he retired early and the one from Republika Srpska later retired. If retirement is discrimination, then it is. But this is about us trying to solve the problem when someone can't get the pension right, and that's, I'd say, the real discrimination that we should somehow solve if we're employers to these people. On the other hand, there was also a question of the burden of costs and the very techniques of how to solve it and what would happen to these people, etc. You see, it's, if we have a good will, very simple. So, within the existing system, now I think somewhere around 600,000 of the budget was, we asked, we didn't do it either, Mr. Babalj or I, but we asked people from some professional services to help us get to that number, so that would solve the issue. Is that a lot? Ha, we're listening to how much money is spent on all kinds of things, this is about concrete, 16 living people with some pay minimums consistent with their professional preparation. We don't think it's rude for people who are employed here to get here and get a pension if that's possible. Now, all of what I said, no matter what argument it was, was not fully clarified in the work of the Joint Defence and Security Committee itself, and we failed to do so, I failed to convince my colleagues that, in my first reading, I said very clearly – in the first reading, this is a failure to go forward in the procedure. I even made a commitment, even though I didn't consult Mr. Babalj, I promised a stenographic(?..that if the Ministry of Security in the meantime solves this issue, Mr. Babalj and I will withdraw this law. So it's not our intention here to prove ourselves, it's our intention here to start this system to solve this problem for these people. We also said that if the Republika Srpska, the National Assembly, in the meantime, solved this problem, through discussions we talked about, of course, it is not disputed to withdraw this, because then it would be a law of law, but we have received assurances of part of the MPs that, given the reforms that have been made in the pension-inhabitation system of Republika Srpska, it is virtually no longer possible, because, as Mrs. Majkić said, the system no longer knows this disadvantaged character, in the way it is known in the Labour Act, or the Law on Police Officers. The worst thing we can do is tell these people that they're losing hope today and that that way... (?) No microphone turned on Well, I don't think we're going to solve anything, but we'll meet again in a few days with the same problem here. So, I ask you therefore, respecting truly infinitely, and about this and members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security themselves can testify, and reputation, and authority, and knowledge, and experience, and the good intentions of all the members of the Commission, that this time, therefore, this dom does not accept the Commission's opinion and that the chance for the law to be found in the second reading, along with all that I've been saying in the light of Mr Babalj's obligation and me to put pressure on other fields that would be necessary. I have as a member of the College, as the other two of my colleagues have, the possibility of addressing the Constitutional Court on this subject, but I'm afraid politics doesn't prevail there either. If politics should already be, let's keep it here, so let's try to solve it in a political way here, so we don't push the Constitutional Court into some kind of politicization, given that this is really a very, very, very individual, rather than a very complex issue. So it all comes down to one thing, that an employee who is employed under the Law on Police Officers is retired in accordance with those provisions of the pension system that applies to him to his place of residence. And that those people who have lost their jobs in the meantime, which is certainly the responsibility of the imperfect system that we have when it comes to it, get a chance to get back in line with those agencies' capabilities. People may have been maybe a year, maybe half a year, some two, some three, maybe someone and five, but they're all experts, they're all people with tremendous experience that every police agency would wish they had and without which it's only because the law is the way it is right now. Now, please, not only in the name of Mr. Babalj and his own name, but also in the name of the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, and I am sure on behalf of all the people to whom this Law is directly applied, 17 without any intention, so that, in any case, I say, we turn this into a political issue, with all these experiences that we had so far when something turns into a political issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u913	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Now I'm going to give my word to Mr. Podžić, because here's the debate already open. Mr. Podžić will be with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u914	I am sorry, with all due respect to Commissioner Tadić, so I would not want to get the impression that where he has now said that there was no general will yesterday on the Commission and that there was politics. I mean, my impression is... (?) No microphone turned on Well, I'm sorry, I may have misunderstood, but my impression yesterday was on the Commission that it was definitely among all the members of the Commission, can, come on, I'm going to make an exception perhaps, one member, was of great good faith and that we are fully aware that this issue must be resolved. But at the same time in the debate, we came to the conclusion that by adopting this thing, we're going to make much more complicated. We all know the question of PIO-AMIO entity, state, etc. And I think Mrs. Borjana Krišto had a good proposal and somehow this proposal dragged us away that we simply don't have yesterday's support in the Commission for this proposal, because things have to be resolved systematically. This isn't the first time. We had before and representatives of the Armed Songs who went into retirement like this, so what did we get? So, to make no mistake, there is a will, everyone in the Commission is aware that this has to be solved, but let's find the best way not to cause even greater consequences. And I think it's a simple solution in making this new Law on Police Officers and that's where it's regulated. I know it burns people, I'm fully aware, and that's how we realized it yesterday, but the will exists, it exists, and here I'm saying, in front of the Commission, we need to solve it, but yesterday we figured out if we do it that way that we're going to make bigger problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u916	Thank you. Mr. Tadić has the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u917	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Commission, therefore in the interest of the truth, in the interest of these people, in the interest of ours, to continue our very good co-operation, so I really apologize if I was misunderstood when I spoke of political will. I'm talking about not believing it doesn't exist, I don't believe it doesn't exist. What situation are we in regarding this initiative given by the distinguished Mrs. Krišto? So, we can't pass laws on behalf of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, we're not, we don't have that single, we don't have a combined 18 capacity to say we'll sort it out this way, so it's impossible, so that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has its responsibilities, a regulated pension system. This is not about us aligning anything with each other, so that someone now says for some reason – so why would the BiH Parliamentary Assembly now adapt, or harmonize its regulations with the regulations of Republika Srpska. No, this is a country strictly divided by powers, powers that are in themselves such that when you look at it, let's say from above, this legal system of ours, you see jurisdiction up to the very top, not just the Parliamentary Assembly, not just the National Assembly or the Federal, but also the Brcko District, and even some cantons, municipalities, etc. So, at the very level of almost equal jurisdiction, there are competences of all these levels of government, because this is also a decentralised country and a decentralised country when it comes to jurisdiction. There's also deconcentration and decentralisation of jurisdiction quite obvious. So, so that's not synchronizing. That's something I'd like to call the nearest one, as a adjustment, so where more jurisdiction, let's say, the entity can't go any further, so I just can't, because they say harmonizes things that are related to PIO, but doesn't coordinate things that are related to police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then there is the Parliamentary Assembly, where its jurisdiction is now under this Law, that it should move forward and that there should be a point where a man who is employed by a police agency means over that point as over the bridge goes on a regular basis from working relationship to retirement without any rest, without any loss of rights. So we have to work it out again, there's no one else. If we solve and if we have already come to a stage that we have a draft and it is before us today, and that Mr. Babalj and I, without any vanity or anything, allow it to be even better, then let's go further towards the proposal to open the amendment phase, so that all MPs, in this case delegates, and later MPs, who have something to say on this topic, let's say we have nothing against, we'll support it, here's Mr. Babalj and I don't mind just being resolved. So, to move to the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska and to bring them together so that people who work without a break, without losing their right to have their normal course of life, professional careers until they go to regular retirement. It's just the intention of our proposal, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u918	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u919	I regret that today we are still discussing members of an honorable and extremely significant profession, not only in this country but in the whole world. It is sad to realize that a young man from 18 years of age has given himself up and gone into these services and served the interests of his country, or his country full of 40 years of honor, where all possible winds and lives to be driven away without retirement. It is almost tragic that a country allows that for those who have kept security for almost 30 effective years. We punish them, and cast out the mockery of the system in which we are. We punish them for what they've won, this country and every other one says they've got an unfettered internship. I wish they didn't have it, where they'd let us out of luck if we'd lifted all the members of the police structures from an underprivileged internship, and then they'd say they're equal to us, because this is how they get 18 when they start working, or 20, anyway, they're in 52, third, fifth year with a certified pensioner. What are they waiting for? They didn't educate children, they didn't provide material conditions, and now we don't give pensions. Come on, let's think, first of all, as people, at this point I'm not interested in any party or political option at all, but I'm interested in dozens of people whose families are defacto begging and walking to get bread crusts. 19 Let us not compare what happened to the army, for it is a slightly different case. Let's remember there were those who were 15 years old, whether or not 20, let's remember that they signed a previous contract that they signed for how long, etc. Not challenging everything we've done now, we know very well how it was brought to the BiH Parliament and then alone, and now I think we've made a mistake then, uh, so let the entities sort it out. And what's the matter? We saw how he dealt with it and how he got through it. I would never want any of us ever again, especially from police structures, probably because I have a very good right to say that I know what bread is to eat police, thanks to them and criticising them constantly not to do their jobs, and here and now we are always at every session of Zvornik, Bugojna that Srebrenica is talking again about the responsibility of these structures. And who answers, and what we send to the institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to say that members of Banja Luka or the leader or I don't know Bihac, come from any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to common institutions. What's waiting for them here? There's five, six years or ten or 20, whatever, work, and then we say goodbye, you don't have the right to retire. Don't do that, don't do that, we even have to count if this is, this is primarily a negative discrimination against them. On the other hand, when you talk about discrimination against others who would be in the Federation and cantons, it would already be positive discrimination. Well, by choosing between those two, let's go down for positive discrimination, because those in the other entity and cantons at this stage don't lose anything. I think it's time for us to consider this one more time, and in the Commission to consider it again, and on the other hand, to draw one conclusion that we're going to ask the Council of Ministers to fully look at this burning difficult question, not to say to set a deadline, to ask that question in the next, here's to say, 60 days offer a whole solution, but don't make it out of this House, I would feel humiliated, there goes the message – well, my Bog, you were, goodbye, you get along. I think there's still a chance, there's still time, there's hope and let's be people to people. They were too big, as you would say, the backdrop of all of us and being, and I think if we don't solve this in one quality way that we're going to throw a lot of trust in these common police structures. So, my only appeal is to give the Commission and everyone else one more chance, to consider this further question, so what are we going to do about it, but it is mandatory for the Council of Ministers to assign this issue to be fully, fully resolved to the satisfaction of all structures. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u920	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Babalj. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't see the replica. Whoever signed up for the replica, I didn't really see, there's no application.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u922	Here, I'll honor the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u923	Mr. Podžić, come in. You've just got an application. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u924	So, in order not to get the wrong impression, I was not even against yesterday, I must defend the Commission's position and fully agree with Mr Nović, especially his latest proposal, I fully support him. So let's give the Council of Ministers some time to look at this situation. 'Cause watch out, uh, yesterday we had an interesting thing, what's gonna happen, and there's gonna be a hundred cops living in the Federation who don't retire, they're gonna move, they're gonna apply to East Sarajevo, to Pale, etc., we're making a bigger mess. I agree with Mr. Nović completely with his discussion, and I support this proposal, let's give some deadline to the Council of Ministers to find this a complete proposal for these people and I support that these people be cleared of their status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u925	Mr. Tadić, one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u926	Dear Mr. Podžić, here's if this is a topic of how possibly someone, as Mr. Nović said, in view of the positive discrimination does not come into the situation to say, yeah, I've met the conditions for retirement by federal status, so I'm going to move on to Republika Srpska and thus avoid going to retirement because the pension is smaller, and I'm still in force, I can work because I haven't achieved some career-related things. We accept that it's possible. But you see this, a small intervention on the current text, which we can only do in the amendment phase, if we let the law into the amendment phase, says so – yes, yes, the employer, the police agency in which it is done, when signing a labour contract and making a solution about it determines the status of officials and therefore, there is no possibility that someone should commit that abuse, because if executed, it is at their own expense, it has been reported there, and it certainly has to retire. So, but this is a small intervention on the very text of this Law, here may be Mr. Babalj and I have not thought enough about the budget of the Federation of BiH, PIO/MIO of the Federation of BiH, allowing him this possibility without any vanity, here we will put it in the amendment phase and we will write Mr. Babalj and I such a proposal for an amendment to its own text, let us look at all the members of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, especially, and when you agree that this is how it should go. So, when it comes to hiring and making a solution itself, the signing of a work contract is determined by which system it is retired – according to its place of residence it has until then, when it competes. So, no problem. But because of that detail, I can't even say the details, it's just a detail, to cause a new wave now, I don't believe that this procedure with the Law on Police Officers can be solved in the next half of the year, maybe a year. I'll tell you why. Because there are a number of questions, a series of issues that need to be handled as if in question, let's say, some kind of re-conversation about the status of these people, not to say a lot of questions, perhaps from a time already resolved by opening, or trying to open some questions. And until this Parliamentary Assembly is done, while some committee ends it, until the Council of Ministers finishes, while it passes all the instances in the ministry itself, in..., so whether this one saw well, I apologize for banalizing, but it comes down to it. So the laws in this country are written to write something, so the boss says - I have to go to 11:00 somewhere, he did it well. He goes to the head of the department, this department chief says -- well, that's when the two of them looked at it for sure. This only if the assistant minister sees something from another nation, but if not understood, he misses the minister, the minister of what obligations, comes to the Council of Ministers, they say – who suggested. Hands up, he goes to the committee, let the parliamentarians think and come to us, we say – so he must when our Council of Ministers is that we will vote for him. And he went to the official messenger. So, just when the public gets upset about some question, we devote enough time to it. 21 So don’t, please don’t let these people suffer for it. Now, let me tell you something, none of us in this room is guilty of their status, and we don't, as I would say, erase our faults, or our mistakes, but we fix it from an earlier period, it's the same Parliamentary Assembly. So, I'm asking you just one thing, let's tell the Joint Defence and Security Commission to reconsider this one more time, and let's see, here's what we're going to do, Mr. Babalj and I are going to make sure that, although we're preparing this, that you can all look at it and see if that's the solution. I couldn't have done it yesterday without Mr. Babalj, he was justifiably absent, so, but we can do it in the next... we're not losing anything just to not interrupt the procedure, I'm asking you nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u927	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Now it's Mr. Babalj's turn, then Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u928	Okay, here, I'll try to be brief. What is, I am pleased to discuss something that we all agree on, I am speaking to the President of the Defence and Security Commission that our move, the Club of Serbian Delegates, which will be against the Commission's report, this law leaves us alive, that we do not take it tomorrow, or for the next time as a matter of opposition between Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian delegates. So, please, here's on behalf of these people to try and find a solution on the next committee in terms of how we deal with it, and to solve the problem of these people. We don't want to politics, we don't want to look for the guilty, we all know who's to blame, but we also know that today these people are probably in the abyss, taking over credit obligations, these obligations. What you said I fully support and my discussion is that on the next Commission on Defence and Security, we try once again to find a solution to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u929	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u930	Thank you. Oh, a few comments. So, I fully accept the overall assessment and opinion of the importance and honour of police profession and there is no dilemma there, I also accept the fact that it is a profession that is extremely important in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and in entities, etc. However, we are talking about the principles of one law, so we are talking about principles, and here we have the possibilities of two principles, or those that have not obtained conditions under the entity retirement laws to return to work, or the principle of those who have not obtained conditions under entity laws to retire in a way that entities agree. So these are two principles, the only two principles. The principle that state law adapts to decisions in entity laws and returns to work those who have obtained conditions under state law to stop their working relationship causing a series of implications. First of all, it could mean that tomorrow, when we pass some state law, we look at all the cantons and entities a solution, and then, on that basis, we pass the law, that, of course, 22 is not good, is not a pleasant practice. The second thing is, there's a constitutional obligation, if you read in detail, that entities agree with state-level laws. The second thing is, the implications of the situation so that police officers from one entity come back to work and have the right for years from police officers from another entity are not harmless and cannot be solved by simple intervention. It carries a number of issues and a number of problems that are not a question or positive discrimination, but are a number of other problems. For these reasons, I mean, the law will remain alive and we will have more opportunities to talk, but since it is the principles of the Bosniak Club for these reasons it cannot support the principles of this approach and these principles of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u931	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm closing the debate. We will now declare ourselves, i.e. we are voting on the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Please prepare to plead. So from the 12 present – for it was 5, against it was 6.1 he was abstention. From Federation of BiH 5 for, 1 versus, 1 abstention. The RS was 5 against, no one was abstention. So there's no general majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, if, therefore, the House accepts the Opinion of the Constitutional, Competent, Commissions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall be deemed to be rejected. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, this, since this opinion has not been adopted, therefore it is not accepted, then Article 104(3) is current and one has now been proposed and that some deadline, uh, I don't know how to formulate it now, new. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, as far as this commission is concerned, I thought to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security, but we've already given them a deadline, so that deadline already exists. So I will read again – based on Article 104(3), as this opinion is not accepted We are now looking for this, so we return to the Commission to draw up a new opinion, given the debate that was held at the House session and within the time period that the House determines. Now that's a deadline, here until the next session I think it can be done, until the next session of the House of Peoples. _________(?) 23 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u938	Dear chairman, distinguished delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. It is indeed a great pleasure to be here as a proposing representative, because the official promoter is a House of Representatives, but the House of Representatives adopted this bill on my proposal and is therefore a matter of abolishing commission fees during working hours. The law has received a positive opinion from the legislative sector twice, the Council of Ministers has been given three times, and certain suggestions from the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for European Integration twice. The House of Representatives passed a bill with 34 votes for, 2 abstentions and only 3 against. Indeed, such a rare support is rare in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples also gave a positive opinion, as well as the Commission for Finance and Budget, the competent Commission. All conditions are met. I am truly pleased with the majority that this bill has been adopted, I see here, it seems to me that the same majority exists when it comes to parties, so I hope that this bill will be supported today in the first reading, in accordance with Article 103. I remain, of course, available if there are any questions or further needs to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u939	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. Is the breach of the Rules of Procedure or something like that? Mr. Genjac has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u940	Yeah, I'm sorry I'm a little late, but I have to. So it's about point 4. The draft law amending the Law on Police Officers has been broken by the Rules of Procedure in terms of interpretation of the decision. In order for the decision to be adopted, the majority must be absolute and at least a third of the votes from each entity. We didn't have a third of the Federation vote. Therefore, this decision is going to be agreed upon... So we don't have a third of the Federation vote. So, decision-making, Article 75. - if most votes do not include one third of the votes of delegates from the territory of each entity, and do not include, the chairman of the dom and his deputies will meet as a commission and try to ensure consent within 3 days of the vote. If not... decisions are made by the majority of those present and who vote on the condition that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 of each entity. I apologize, only to record it, so it's not a matter of certainty about the Rules of Procedure, just to make a record of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u941	Here comes Mr. Tadić again for the replica, before I give up my vision. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u942	Although, of course, it's not usual to go from point to point with this, but I'll let you know, of course, we're colleagues after all. Do such a good atmosphere code to us and we don't need it, here's one we'll have later. So the question is, are you up for something? And there isn't a majority, an absolute majority for something, so we didn't vote against here, I was just calling not to support it. But the question we're getting is not whether we're against something, but whether we're up to something. In that sense, this report did not receive the required majority, and then it is not seen by this majority. That, if we had said otherwise, that I was saying, that we were pleading against something, then you're right, and we're always pleading whether we're for something, and only my appeal and other colleagues might have brought into a certain kind of confusion now over the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I think everything's okay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u943	You see, uh, here's so there's nothing left to explain. So we don't have a general majority here because to accept it, we would have to have a general majority and we only have 5 for it. So that's why we couldn't, and 6 against, that's why we couldn't accept, you understand. So we don't have the general majority. As soon as we don't have a general majority, so we didn't accept this report, and as soon as we didn't accept it, we have to put it back on, at least that's what the Rules of Procedure says. /Shortly interrupted video/ It's just that, just that, yeah, we're clear now, okay. Thank you, Mr. Genjac. So now I'm opening a debate on this 8th item on the agenda, so the Law on Salary and Suspension in BiH institutions. Are there any reports of a hearing? Mrs. Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u945	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. I would just like to point out that at the end of the 10th month, it is a deadline within which the Council of Ministers will make a complete solution, as we as the Committee have sought, to resolve this law. Well, that's what you mean and keep it in the loop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u946	Thank you. I don't see any other applications. I'm closing the debate. We are voting in our first reading on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. 27 Of the 13 - 9 present were for, 2 v, 2 abstentions. So, from Federation of BiH 4 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, from RS 5 for, against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights The joint commission on the human rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly claimed the proposal for a code of conduct of MPs and envoys at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and referred it to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples for adoption. The Joint Committee discussed the proposal for a Code with amendments held at the 17th session, held on 16 September 2015, adopted and delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives and established its final opinion. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the proposal for a code of conduct of MPs and envoys in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with a total of 8 amendments that have become an integral part of the Pre-Agreement Code and proposes that it be adopted to the House. The Joint Commission also adopted a conclusion that, following the adoption of the Code Proposal, it would propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here now, two envoys, as far as I have information, would have taken over these amendments, Mr. Babalj and Mr. Genjac. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u949	I thank the chairman. Well, maybe more about procedural reasons and this amendment. So, the Codex came into existence after a long time. There have been attempts before, and I think that now in a very good atmosphere at the Human Rights Commission, there has been a debate and some experiences have been taken from the region, and beyond, which have proved very practical for both our opportunities and our conditions. I think it's a good solution on Wednesday, that it also enables effective implementation of the codes, which is very important for this issue, and in the end of the matter is supported by the Joint Commission, which is also conceived by both home representatives and so multi-party, we know how it's supposed to be, that it's supported. I have proposed 28, i.e. taking over this amendment in order to get to the Codex as soon as possible, to avoid the establishment of a Joint Commission to agree on the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. And accepting these two amendments that I and my colleague Babalj have submitted would mean today the Codex defacto will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u950	Thank you. Next, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u951	I welcome my colleague and fellow envoys, both representatives of the Council of Ministers and others. I'm taking this opportunity because I've been looking for a way to react to the minister's behaviour, the state minister's against women, and I'm using exactly that, and I'm sorry that he went to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but here's how the minister can tell us, or those who are from the ministry, whether they have this code of conduct that they should adhere to, because if they did, then they could, like us, here's an article 6 that says that MPs have to behave, etc. So I'm responding to the minister's behaviour and the public statement where he disrespected the press in the first place, but I'm reacting as a woman now. There is no one's right in such a way as a public figure like a minister, a representative, etc., no matter how much he agreed and disagreed with politics, editorship and others, in such a harsh way to address a woman. This is my way of protesting, and of course I'm glad that the Codex is coming, and either way, that we can talk about the code of conduct, but it would be good to have that in the Council of Ministers, so to all the people who teach in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u952	Thank you. Mr. Tadić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u953	With all due respect to all the people who are in this room and all the people who are going to find out this in one way or another, so I assure you that none of the people, nor the Minister of Security, are ever imperative to hurt anyone's dignity. I think it's actually a very small number of people, and that it's even being treated or trying to be treated, if they are, that when they get up in the morning and so on, they're looking for someone to hurt his dignity. In doing so, of course, I do not want to create any context in which anything is in the process of fully regular relations between politicians, the public, journalists, etc., and what comes out of the borders of any, justified. But you've opened one question very important. All of us in the morning when we get out of our homes have some sort of attitude about who we are and what we are and what we will do that day, in terms of our social, family and personal missions, to do, no matter what we do and whether we are even unemployed. I assure you that all those who call themselves journalists are unfortunately not journalists. And unfortunately, not everyone who calls themselves politicians is politicians, and not everyone who calls themselves any profession is what they say they are. How do you react to that adequately? I assure you there is no adequate reaction. If you ignore it, I haven't made any statements to some media in years. I see, this Codex would oblige me to give some information about what's been going on, and even if it makes it a minor violation of 29 disciplines, if when a journalist calls me I say I don't want to talk. They're not all newspapers, newspapers. Something we have here, it's a kind of hypocrisy. The press is telling us about some people who pretend to be journalists, that they're not actually journalists. But they won't say it publicly, from some kind of collegiate solidarity, and I guess it's because maybe they can sometimes find themselves in a... situation. Something we call the media or what's registered as a medium, unfortunately, is nothing but the instrument of political parties. And Mr. Mektić spoke to no one, not justifying any sentence, not entering its contents, not any of those people he spoke to as journalists, but as instruments of political parties, i.e. politicians may be bigger than some politicians sitting in some parliaments. So why did we come to turn the public service of our journalists into politicians, let's leave it for another part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u954	Thank you. Mr. Rodić, discussion. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u955	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I will say just a few words about the Codex, with a boon that this topic has been present in Parliament for many years and that in 2008 we have already adopted a Code in this House, there have been some amendments in 2011, but unfortunately, the Code could never have been applied to the Parliamentary Assembly because the implementing acts were never adopted, and I think it was a very complex procedure and that was why we didn't even have this act in place. Of course, there are no simple solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Codex will not solve many problems, but I am sure of one thing, that we as MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly have one task. And the task is for the Parliamentary Assembly to become an authority or to face another problem, to lose all that authority. We meet in Parliament with various questions, we meet on committees, and what is worst, we often do ourselves. And I have to say, by studying and preparing for today's session, that since 2008, if we take the information that the public's confidence in national parliaments was 57%, and in 2012, it has fallen to about 31%, and probably if we look at what the percentage is now in 2015, that data would be significantly different. And what I think is the basic task of this Code is that all of us who have been chosen to strive with our conduct to impose the authority of the Parliament that we represent and to be our primary task. I think this Codex, since it's been done for a long time, that certain solutions have been simplified in the Codex and that we will finally have the opportunity to apply this Codex. Of course, nothing is ideal, but it gives us the opportunity to see if it's right in the next period through the application of the Codex. Also, if you look at some more data you will see that starting in 2012, 13 parliaments in the region have adopted ethical codes of conduct. This number can be made small if you look at the number of countries, but if you see that they represent about 607 million inhabitants, that is 50% of the population that includes these parliaments. However, what is important and what I specifically wanted to say is the conclusion of the Commission, but I think the amendments to the Rules of Procedure must go in the direction of urgent changes if we want to come to the application of this Code. First of all, Article 25. The Code has now amended the decision by appeal in the Rules of Procedure, meaning the positive Rules of Procedure currently in force, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission is to apply the Code. It is now in the jurisdiction of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, 30 so I think these changes should be responded by the next session of the House of Peoples, that we simply come into a position to apply the Code. And in the end, I'm going to say, what I think is very important is that those who separately treat politics and morals will never understand either of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u956	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Radmanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure or, be my guest, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u957	Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that you've dropped the session and this injury refers to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u958	Just say the word, I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u959	You have allowed your member of the College and the future chairman to speak here what is not the point of the agenda, to be declared the attorney of the Minister of Security, who is not here, and to take advantage of the opportunity to give inappropriate reviews of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina and those working in the media. I must say, my opinion is that Mrs. Džambas has warned on our Codex that others in this country need to have the Code of Conduct and found the right example. And I think she's absolutely right. And it's safe, and it won't be hard to prove that the security minister insulted representatives of the more beautiful sex, especially those who work in the media and numerous media. And it wasn't necessary for him to defend himself here for that. If there is a need, Mr. Chairman, to conduct a discussion on the media in this country and on journalists in this country, as suggested by Mr. Tadić, then we are prepared to do so, but not in this way. Of course, then, we'll be able to tell someone that we can't go through with any media reviews or any press reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u960	Thank you. Here, I'm really trying to stay within the agenda point, but I can never say in advance, I don't know what the envoy or envoy will say when he comes out for a pay phone. Here, now we have again, whether it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or it's a replica, we have Mr. Tadić again reported, and we have Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, of course it wasn't my intention, what Mr. Radmanović is talking about, I was actually starting to act in the spirit of this Codex, which obliges us as delegates to respect the dignity of all the people who cooperate with us, not only the Parliamentary Assembly 31 but the members of the Council of Ministers with whom we must have the best cooperation, whether they were from our party or not, if something opens up as a question of giving some other side of the answer, if, of course, it is said again in a decent way. And I'm sure what I said was a very moderate tone, polite, not challenging anyone. In that sense, I disagree with what Mr. Radmanović was talking about, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. This is only during the discussion of how we will understand this Rules of Procedure tomorrow. And Mrs. Džambas said that very correctly. She said - I understand this Rules of Procedure, this Codex as the beginning of something that others should, other organs to kind of respect, adopt, so that we all behave equally, but she took an example that I, as a delegate, rated not well enough. So my reaction was, in that sense, so that there would be no, as I would say, misunderstandings on the subject. As for the relationship with the press, I agree it's a topic for a different story. Here, it slipped or didn't slip away from the Minister of Security, something he said. You know how, at least he didn't get in with ESFOR tanks in the newsrooms whose editorial policy they didn't like, at least he didn't arrest the press, tie them to the radiators, question who they were, who they were working for, whether they were hiding this or that, as we unfortunately had a situation to see in some first years after the war, when it comes to, not my, political option.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u962	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mrs. Džambas signed up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u963	Excuse me, Mr. Tadić, I've just taken an example of how he can't behave. This was a case of journalists, of treating a woman. I'm also responding to how she treats a woman, the look of a woman. No one, no representative, no minister, no one can act like that. To tell a woman in public, what does anyone care what a woman looks like, I mean, it really doesn't make sense. I'm reacting in that sense. And that's exactly what our Codex is saying. There's no right to be offended by race, by faith, no right. I'm just saying, if these ministers and these MPs from both homes will all, like us, respect the Codex 5, let's say that they can't insult a woman. If someone has a driver, they have guards, they have everything around them, so they're getting a little heavy, this woman doesn't have any, and she'll know how to defend herself. If you think she can't, she can defend herself. But this is the most polite way to say that she has to react, if a woman attacks in this way, based on her looks.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u964	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Mr. Babalj, did you sign up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u965	Not keeping the agenda. With all due respect to this House and my colleague, Džambas, I think we've been talking for 15 minutes about something that's not about the agenda. This Codex and its application will be when the procedure of this Law is completed. We open unnecessary or maybe, if anyone wants, necessary things, to deal with things that are either good or not good, and we all have different views of them. I didn't listen to Mr. Mektić's statement, but I listened to 32 different statements from politicians and officials from Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here and here and here, and here, and I've never heard of Bog, here's that someone convicted these things. So, when we adopt the Code, let's stick to our rules, our principles, Mr. Čolak, that this doesn't go in some wrong direction, because I could mention now the president of my Republic and his women, so that I would be offended by how he treats women so I could reach him, Mektić, and this. I think it'll take us to some gossip party and we won't go out with some goal this Codex wants. And to put it another way, here I am not answering for the discussion, with Mr Genjac, as far as the amendments are concerned, he is of a technical nature, meaning that it would not come to what Mr Genjac said, I am the one who proposed Mr. Bojić at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u966	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u967	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u968	Here, please just keep it within the code.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u969	It's going to be within the code, so we're not going to get out of it, though, here's what Mr. Tadić said. So, the media has all kinds of, but I don't think it gives it absolutely to anyone for the right, especially members of a more beautiful sex, to insult, or to threaten them, or anything. So, come on if it's a man somehow, but female, don't, I mean, it doesn't make sense. As for the Codex, so I wanted to track this down, so in the Human Rights Commission, we had a debate, there were a lot of amendments. This is some fruit of compromise, this also amendment by Mr Genjac and Babalj is of a technical nature. I mean, in light of all these events, here are the last days, that we need one such document, that we need to adopt it even though I personally, unlike my esteemed colleague Podžić, did not notice exactly in the House of Peoples that anyone, from these parameters listed in the Codex, has spoken at the session that more because of colleagues from the House of Representatives, is a particular way of dressing, behavior, behavior, entering the word, here I am saying, I honestly have not noticed anyone here that has ever gotten into the word for any debate. So this is about helping our colleagues from Parliament's House of Representatives come to the civilization level where we are. And of course I'll support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u970	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. We've exhausted the debate with this. So, I'm closing the debate. And now we're voting on amendments. First, Mr. Babalj's Ambassador's amendment. 33 Please prepare for a statement. You can vote. Out of the 13 — all 13 were for, therefore, there was no opposition or abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the amendment of Mr. Babalj's envoy has been adopted. Now we move to a statement on Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. From the 13 - 12 present, it was...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u971	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u972	We have to vote again. Stand by. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the amendment of Mr. Genjac's esteemed envoy has been adopted. We are now voting on the proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives, MPs in the Parliamentary Custodial of BiH, together with 8 amendments to the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which are part of the proposal for a Code. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. Moving to the next point, that's number 10, Ad. Ten. Report on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces and police officers in peace support operations from 1 July to 31 December 2014, material from the BiH Presidency You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH. The commission passed the report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 17th session, held on 16 September 2015. I give the word to Mr Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples, if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. 34 I give a word to the bearer of the Report, if he is present and if he appreciates that he has needs. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and police officers in peace support operations from 1 July to 31 December 2014. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 - 13 were for, against, and abstentions, therefore, there was no. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and police officers in peace support operations from 1 July to 31 December 2014. We're going to the 11th item of the agenda, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2014 and the Independent Committee's 2015 Work Plan
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u977	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u978	Is there a request for a reenactment? It's not. So, I conclude the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2014 was adopted. We are now voting on the Independent Committee's 2015 work plan. Please prepare to vote. So now it's the 2015 Work Plan. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It is from the House of Representatives. What's the problem? /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u981	I'm sorry, we didn't vote on the Joint Commission's opinion. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u982	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u983	Then we must vote again, because we must vote on the opinion of the Joint Commission, Opinion, opinion. The Commission was competent to consider the Report and it provided a Report not supporting the Report. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We declare the opinion of the Commission which did not support the Report. By accepting the Commission's opinion, it means not accepting the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u985	I'll ask Secretary Dom, my opinion when it comes to the laws that you're right, but I'm not sure you're right when it comes to them, but here it is possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u986	So only when it comes to voting laws is negative opinion. When it comes to the report, the information, or any other material, whatever the Commission's negative opinion, means through a reminder it was stated, he read, chairing it, voting on the material, not on the negative report. /Shortly interrupted video/ We have a member of our 104th Rules of Procedure who says that when it comes to the law. When it comes to... the reports don't mention this negative procedure at all. Well, that's the Rules of Procedure and that's the procedure, that's the procedure that's been in some past, so practice, practice, and in one and another home is that. It means there's no negative vote on the reports. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u988	Mario Karamatić, then Mr. Genjac, that's right, by time of application. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u989	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 37 Behold, I commend us how kind, decent we have adopted the Codex, and we begin to enter into each other's word. Gentlemen, I ask you to stick to the Codex that we just adopted, to report nicely for your word and address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u990	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Genjac signed up. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u991	So we don't open up a wide discussion right now. Does it need a negative opinion from the committee that is in charge before declaring any material, that's logic, but not to open the debate now? Since we had a misunderstanding, I ask you, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, to repeat the vote, however you wish, whether to vote first on the Opinion or on the Report, however you choose, but to repeat the vote. Because we do, so we support the Commission's report and we do not support the report on the work, but we support the Commission's opinion which is negative and we do not support the report on the work of the Independent Committee. And that's why, however, let's do it again, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u992	Then, here's to insisting on the president of the Bosniak People's Club, Mr. Genjac, here I am asking you to repeat the vote. We declare the report on the work of the Independent Committee for the past year. So we repeat. Please initiate the voting mechanism. So from the 12-7 present, it was for, 4 versus, 1 abstention. From Federation of BiH 4 to, 4 against, from RS 3 to, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So we can conclude that this report was accepted, that it was adopted as I just realized. We are now going to vote on the Independent Committee's 2015 Work Plan. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. So from the 12 to 5 there were for, 2 were against and 5 were abstentions. From Federation of BiH 3 for, 2 against and 3 abstentions, from RS 2 for, there was no, and 2 were abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]] There's no consensus between us. We're going to the second round of pleas. Please prepare so we can plead in the second round. You can vote. Of the 12 – 5 present is for, 5 versus, 2 abstentions. So from Federation of BiH 3 for, 4 against, 1 abstention, from RS 2 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that the Independent Committee's work plan for 2015 has not been adopted. 38 We move to the 12th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 12. Proposal for a strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption and integration of bh citizens returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the Readmission Agreement and the Proposal for an Action Plan for the period 2015-2018, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u995	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the House of Peoples. I've only come out to do a few things to turn my attention to this strategy. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina had a strategy on reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement, but during the time and its application, because it was adopted in 2009, it showed insufficient what appears to be based on this Strategy, and especially when it comes to reintegration of returnees into the places where they went. The very important issue in addition to this is the role of the entire system, i.e. the institution dealing with the return of persons under the Readmission Agreement, and this Strategy is now giving an answer to questions that have not been resolved so far, which is more integration than return, because it was more than resolved by the original Strategy, or the Strategy which is now in force, and this one also has, meaning, the addition also for reintegration. When it comes to reintegration, therefore, the need to fully respect the human rights of returnees under these agreements has been demonstrated, and we have, I will remind you, 26 signed readmission agreements with EU and past countries, and those that are not in the EU, but for us, the most important agreement is signed with the EU. What is now important in this Strategy is to establish a functional, efficient and harmonised system of acceptance of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who return under the Readmission Agreement and ensure their social and economic integration on their return. The importance of this strategy at this time is because we have recently increased number of people under these EU agreements for increased inflows, because we know known situations with migrants, so that the EU, or EU countries that have signed an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, is already deciding on a step to which it is, for example, a step. Germany has announced that it will return to Bosnia and Herzegovina all those who have come to this country and have not been granted asylum status. That's why it's very important that we, with this one extended strategy, accept these people returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina because they went away for different reasons and did not get that status in the country they went to as a state of acceptance. So I just want to tell you that last Thursday, 140 people arrived here on a plane, and that's repeated here for several months, exactly how these migrations last for this number and the arrival of our individuals in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is very important that persons such as Rom, children without 39 parental ageing, disabled persons, etc., persons who are able to, therefore, social assistance will be given adequate assistance under this Strategy in respect of their human rights and their care when it comes to the right to housing, education, social protection, etc. Here, that's the document that's talking about it, so I'd really like to ask for this House's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u996	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Any interest? There's no such thing as reported. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please prepare to vote. You can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u997	And the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u998	Yes, so this is the proposal for a strategy and action plan. From 12 to 11 were for, it was not against, 1 was abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 3 for and 1 abstention. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing a proposal for a BiH strategy for the acceptance and integration of bh citizens returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the Readmission Agreement and the 2015-2018 Action Plan proposal were adopted. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion obliging the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation to draft the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO – Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes at the 9th session, held on 16 September 2015, discussed the proposal to implement recommendations from the Central Election Commission of BiH in the area of political party financing. In connection with this Joint College, the BiH Central Election Commission's initiative proposes to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to reach a conclusion that obliges the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's election legislation to draft a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO. At the 18th session, held on 07.10.2015, the House of Representatives adopted a proposal for a conclusion obliging the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation to also draft the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO, whose proposal is the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses. 40 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Out of those 10 - 9 were for, against no one, 1 abstention. From Federation of BiH 7 for, there were no abstentions, from RS 2 for, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a conclusion that obliges the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation to draw up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO. We're going to the 14th point, that's it, Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1001	He didn't vote Darko, we repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1002	We have to do it again because Mr. Babalj hasn't come forward. Please repeat the plea. You can vote. Of the 12 present – for it was 10.1 he was against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 2 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure 41 Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in which we have appointed the House of Peoples: Ognjen Tadić, Ljilja Zovko and Safet Softić. We're going to point 15, that's Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the location of the Shop Gora, Municipality of Dvor - Proposer: Joint College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH At its 9th session, held on 16 September 2015, a joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety discussed a letter asking the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to nominate representatives for membership in the Working Party for the Monitoring of the State and Activities with regard to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump at the location of Trska Gora – the Municipality of Dvor, in accordance with the Conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives at the 14th session, held on 13 June 2015, and the House of Nations at the 7th session, held on 15.07.2015. In this regard, the Joint College of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH established a proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Working Group to monitor the situation and activities related to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump at the location of Trgovina Gora – the municipality of Dvor in which they were proposed: Mario Karamatić, Sifet Podžić and Dragutin Rodić. At the 18th session, held on 07.10.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Please initiate the voting mechanism. You can vote. Of the 12 people present, all 12 were for, therefore, against and withheld. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 4 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Conclusion on the appointment of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the location of Trska Gora – the Municipality of Dvor, in which we appointed the House of Peoples: Maria Karamatić, Sifet Podžić and Dragutin Rodić. We're going to point 16, Ad. 16. Appointment of two members of the BiH Appeal Office and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two members of the BiH Appeal Office and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1005	I thank the chairman. Maybe I acted too late, it wasn't your fault, I checked in late. In Article 93, which regulates the issue of the BiH Appeal Office, it is stated to me that the Board of Appeal has 7 members, of which 2 of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1 of the others, with 2 members in the order of the people... Republika Srpska, 4 of the people of the Federation of BiH and 1 of the others, is alternatively chosen from one or another entity. As far as the BiH Appeal Office itself is concerned, and these two filling places, I hope that the Commission has taken care of all these requirements of this article. However, during the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, we have reacted several times and warned, unfortunately we have been overvoted, and the other solutions that I think may lead to problems. Namely, branches have been established in Mostar and Banja Luka, which, if they are branch offices of the Office, should be deposited in the way that the Office has been deposited – in ethnic, entity and any other respect. So, if they are branches of something, then they have to maintain something that's branches. It remains in the Law to establish branches in Banja Luka and Mostar and that 43 will not have legal personality status. Of course, despite our warnings that they could mean dividing the Office into two entity units and then explaining by the parties, including the SDP, etc., that it will not be so. The law that was passed... is, however, and we're overvoted, says the jurisdiction of the branch is determined according to the entity seat of the contract authority. So it is a division of the Office for the Review of Appeals on an entity basis, especially since it is their jurisdiction to purchase up to 800,000 KM, which is the highest number of purchases. I would like to draw attention, therefore, to this act and this Law, to be established branches which, in some way, have been entityally shared by the Board of Appeals, have not established an obligation, because nowhere is the position of these branches, in terms of ethnic, entity, but only to have two members. For this reason, we here in the Commission Report for the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo have indicated which ethnicities and which entities, for branches in Banja Luka and Sarajevo, we do not have any entities or ethnicities listed. In theory, this can mean, in some perspective, because there are no legal or precise or constraint, that, for example, one office can be unilaterally drawn up, one of these branches theoretically does not prevent it. Be careful, the branches in Banja Luka and Mostar have 5 members, according to the law, of which 3 members are recognised by administrative or administrative experts, and 2 are experts in the field of performance of works, public procurement, transportation and strategic... and are chosen through public ad, point. This means that it can be a one-national or binational branch, etc. I think this is a terrible failure in the law, that it's a forced solution and that this carries with it a series of dangers. I also think that, uh, the Commission, which was working on this issue, could be managed by the principle of the BiH Appeal Office's membership in a way that meets both the entity and the ethnic principles, although it was not really required under the law. And now we have something here between, uh, the Commission has acted to take care of some things, some may not lead, but we have a legal solution that is problematic, which we have warned about, was even an appeal to the Constitutional Court, this. And these are all the reasons why I will be restrained when it comes to the composition of these committees (?). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1006	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Tadić, second deputy. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1007	Well, then, this is very important, of course, a question in order... to the public and people who don't have the opportunity to see everything that's in front of us before it comes to the official messenger. I'll just comment on something that's important to know. So, when she works, she can ask the candidates for what's legal. We have recently had a situation concerning the Law on the Ombudsman and the choice of the BiH Ombudsman, so where you are simply obliged to ask the question to potential candidates. If the law does not specify that there must be these or those types of compositions in some commission such as Mostar or Banja Luka, as committees for, the Offices for reviewing complaints, branches, then you cannot ask that question in competition, because, I mean, you are putting people in a position to plead on what the law does not require of them. So that would be inadmissible behavior. But it should also be welcomed that this Commission, which has chosen these people, I, by my names, am not going to mention any name so as not to cause any of the individuals who may be feeling differently, therefore, but by name, I can see that there is a representation of the constituent peoples here, so 44 for the sake of the public, I say, with this, here I agree with Mr Genjac, so since the bodies involved in the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are the ones that need to be treated consistently, and this is the law itself. And it may not be bad for the next session to be prepared to amend and supplement the law, which, therefore, does not have to be an emergency procedure, given that these people, for what, five years, seem to me, this, when it comes to mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1008	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. No more reports. So I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the appointment of 2 members of the BiH Appeal Office and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar in line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates for the appointment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes. Please prepare to plead. You can vote now. Out of those 13 - 11 were for, against no one, abstentioned 2. From the Federation of BiH 6 for and 2 abstentions, from RS 5 for, no one abstention, no one against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have appointed Jelen Gotovac as a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo, as an expert in administrative law and/or administrative procedure, from the order of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Republika Srpska, Dragan Ilić for a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo, to the place of experts in the field of execution of works, public procurement, transport and strategic management, Ismet Bećiragić, Samir Buljin and Mirjana Antunović for members of the Office for the Review of Appeals at the Mostar branch, as an expert in administrative law and/or administrative procedure, Radomir Pašić, Arif Nanić and Marko Kolobarić for members of the Office for the Review of Appeals at the branch of Banja Luka, as an expert in administrative law and/or administrative procedure, Tomislav Pašić, Arifa Ćužić and Alma-Salkić-Mijić for members's members of the Offices of Public Management in the Offices, the Offices of Transport, the Transports of Transports of Transports, Transports, Transports of the Transports of Transports, Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Public, Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Republics of the Republics of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Republic of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of Transports of Transports of Transports of Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of the Transports of Transports of Transports of Transports of On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement on the ratification of agreements, agreements, Protocols and Conventions. I will be free and suggest again that the joint debate and the statement on points 17 to 25, including item 25 of the agenda, if, of course, there are no different opinions. Mr. Radmanović signed up. I give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1009	Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting that in some way we're serious about this debate in this House, I'll tell you why. We've been having a debate for almost three hours about 16 points of the agenda. Now we're ready to adopt nine points of the agenda, as if they were completely irrelevant, in a minute. So, I want on behalf of the commission, which I am chairing to propose to you, to say that there are very important 9 points of the agenda, so five agreements, two contracts, one protocol, one convention, interstate 45 acts, and someone who reads the records will think that this is completely irrelevant to some ad hoc commission, and it's not irrelevant. So, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy proposes to this House to give consent to ratification, because without this attitude, these acts cannot even be completed. I think the session planning should take care of this in the future. So, I don't mind adopting everything together, but those who follow the session and delegates here know what kind of acts it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1010	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Are there any more reported? Okay, here's the debate already open. So, we're at the College this morning, here's what we decided to do, and now we're going to get to the bottom of this proposal, so we're going to vote on giving consent to the ratification of agreements, contracts, protocols and conventions, from 17th to 25th points, including the 25th point. So, can we, then, talk about this proposal as we just said to make a statement? About a united debate, can we? Thank you. Of the 12-12, there were no objections, no restraints. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So this proposal has been adopted. Ad. 17. - Ad 25. Granting consent for ratification of agreements, contracts, Protocols and Conventions You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. Now I give my word to Mr. Radmanović, the chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1012	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-14-0.u1013	Oh, well, you already said before I produced you. It's okay, thank you. I'm opening a debate now on agreements, contracts, Protocols and the Convention. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting in favour of the ratification of the agreement, the treaty, the Protocol and the Convention referred to in points 17 to 25, including the point of today's 25th agenda. 46 Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 12-12 were there for, against, and without abstention. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, we agreed to ratify the agreement, contract, protocol and convention referred to in points 17 to 25, including item 25 of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we ended the 10th session of the House of Peoples. I'm finishing the 10th session. About the date of the next session, of course you will be informed, and the next session will be chaired by my distinguished colleague Ognjen Tadić, as the time has come, just 8 months have passed. I wish him a successful presidency anyway, and I believe you're joining my wishes. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:55 p.m.
