ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 envoys, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serbian people. So, 2 envoys and Mr. Martin Raguž and Mr. Fahrudin Radončić are for legitimate reasons absent, so they are unable to attend today's session. For the 5th session, I propose the following, amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/14, of 05.03.2015; 3. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-422/15, of 23.03.2015; 4. Proposal for a decision on the amount of RTV fee – Proposer: Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 02-29-1247/14, of 09.04.2015; 5. Reports by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: (a) Report on the external trade of arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013, (b) Report on the evaluation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2012, material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, No: 01.02-24-14, of 27.12.2014; 6. Report on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces and police officers in peace support operations, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-03-42/15, of 05.01.2015; 7. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, issue: 05/2-50-19-238/15, dated 10.02.2015; 8. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2014, issue 01.02-50-19-338/15, of 03.03.2015; 9. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2014, issue 01,02-50-19-373/15, of 12.03.2015; 10. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons under which criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the foreign courts provided for in the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the 2nd International Treaty of which Bosnia and Herzegovina is the signatories or the second court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-37-451/15, of 26 March 2015; 11. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-486/15, of 01.04.2015; 12. The financial plan for 2014 and the information on the current business of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, in accordance with the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, No: 02-50-19-504/15, of 06.04.2015; 13. Information on the Annual Plan of Training and Exercise of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2015, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-771/14, since 01/09/2014, with amendments and additions to the Annual Plan of Training and Training of Members and Units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2015, issue: 03/1,03/1a-03-339/15, of 03.03.2015; 14. State action plan on emergency cases of protection of the population from ionising radiation in the event of an emergency, nuclear accident or nuclear damage, material of the State Regulatory Agency for radiation and nuclear safety, No: 01,02-04-1372/14, of 16.12.2014; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure of appointing members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, material number: 03-50-19-587-1/15, dated 18.05.2015; 16. Proposal for a conclusion amending the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Law of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-540-1/15, dated 28.05.2015; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Military Financial Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial support between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No. 01.02-05-2-644/15, of 04.05.2015; 18. Giving consent to ratifying Amendment No 3 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 21 December 2005 in Sarajevo and 28 December 2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent amendments (the Finance Treaty) to the Zeleznica project in BiH II. (FI 23.376), number: 01,02-05-2-650/15, of 06.05.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any suggestions for an amendment or any addition. If there are no changes and the addition of the agenda has been adopted. Hence, we do not declare it, do not vote, in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Moving to point one, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. 3 Is Someone Answering? Any objections regarding the 4th-session record? I can't see, so there's no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. So, from the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. So there's most general and entityal. I agree that the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to point two of today's session, that's it, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u412	Therefore, at the 3rd session, held on 22.04, the Commission discussed the proposal for a law in the first phase and the debate on principles and established a final proposal, namely an opinion. Unanimously, with nine votes to accept the principles of the bill's proposal and the proposed text of the law was referred to in further procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u413	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if, of course, he appreciates that there is a need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 4 We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. So, from Federation 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH was adopted in the first reading. We're moving on to three sessions today, that's Ad. 3. BiH Council of Ministers 2014 work report
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u418	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since it's about this point I'd first refer to the letter Mrs. Ingrid sent to the authorities in Bosnia, as she calls them. In the part of the letter where she repeats the mantra, meaning that we have been hearing for months about the difficult situation in public broadcasters on several occasions repeats the thesis of Bosnian authorities, the Bosnian public system of Bosnian authorities, the Bosnian kingdom and Bosnian authorities have not existed since the time the Ottoman occupationer cut off Stjepan Tomašević's head. This country is called Bosnia and Herzegovina. And my proposal, as it is addressed to you, Mr. Čolak, as the chairman of the House of People, is that we do not have to explain to her Stjepan Tomašević and our relations here, but here, let us give her a letter explaining to the lady that the country is called Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there is no Bosnia as Bosnia. As far as the proposal for a decision on the amount of tv tax is concerned, I must say that we are unfortunately dealing with the consequences again rather than the causes. Yesterday, we had a conversation with the EU Special Envoy for Broadcasting, and here is Mr Kadić himself, on behalf of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, 7 we asked him to do everything in his power not to turn off our analogue signal because there is no longer a theoretical chance that the 17th of next month when we need to switch to the digital signal, we switch to the same signal. Why doesn't it exist? There's no reason why they brought us into this situation. I can't say that we've been brought in, although of course there is a large part of responsibility for political entities in this country. The Law on Public TV Service, as well as most of the things that are domestic and dysfunctional in this country, has been imposed by the High Representative, i.e. OHR. And, of course, as such, it does not work because there is no concern that three constituent nations live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you look at it a little bit, here's everything the three constituent nations have agreed between themselves and passed the law, it all works out. Everything the international community has imposed on us today we have a problem. My opinion is that by adopting this decision on the RTD fee absolutely nothing solves because we can put it to be 5 marks, we can put it on 7 marks, we can put it on 70 marks. I've already said several times that BHRT in this whole relationship is a victim of federal television. When we talk about the Public TV service, which should be in the service of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the main postulates of journalism are independence, objectivity, democracy and impartiality in information. Here I believe that we've all had a chance to watch that video on You Tube when a former minister from the Council of Ministers calls on the editor of the Federal Television says he's going to mount a contribution and what he's going to say in the attachment, and he's beating his head like a horse when he sees a toothpick and talks – absolutely, absolutely. So that should be independence, objectivity, democracy and impartiality in information. Furthermore, federal television systematically spreads hate speech and systematically humiliates one constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm going to apostrophe a few years ago. Imagine, for example, working on Croatian television or on Serbian television, on PINK, looking at the contribution that begins – in the heart of the Islamic state in the stadium of Kosevo people who falsely present themselves as Bošnjak and waiting for constitutional changes to declare the Caliphate to glorify Osama bin Laden. I believe the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina would get up on its feet, because that's simply not true. However, when the Federal Television announced, because of a Nazi flag that appeared in the stadium – in the temple of fascism at the Pecar Stadium in Široki Brijeg where Hitler and Pavelić are systematically glorified, people who falsely represent Hrvat and await constitutional changes to declare the Aryan race had their nationalist... Niko one answered. At that time, on behalf of the HSS, I submitted a presentation to the RAC for spreading hate speech. And from the RAC then I got the answer that it was in order to inform about the game, believe it or not. When we talk about the depolitisation of public tv services, it is not a burning point to note that the chief editor of multimedia on federal television was a candidate for one party as a member of the presidency. Maybe it wouldn't be so controversial, but after the campaign, I read a memo from the Federal Television Trade Union asking the gentleman to return their jackets owned by federal television because he was doing a campaign in them. So that's that depoliticized public service. And, I invite you all, here as my colleagues here, that we begin to deal with the cause. It means to solve this nakarada imposed on us by the OHR Office and the High Representative in the form of the Law on Public TV Service, to sit down and to agree on how this Public TV service should look and to pass the Law on Public TV Service. A law that will respect part of the European Parliament's resolution on the necessity of the Croatian channel, a law that will respect all three constituent nations and laws where no one will feel threatened or 8 discriminated. I don't think there's any point in voting on the fee, but here's the agenda. I'll vote against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u419	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is there any more interest in the debate? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Now, prepare to vote on the proposal for a decision on the amount of the tv fee. You can vote. Out of the 13 -- for it was 7, against 6, there was no one abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, 4 against, no one abstention. From RS – 3 for, 2 against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, I find that the decision on the amount of RTTV tax has been adopted. We move on to the next, so the fifth item of the agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 5. Reports by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: (a) Report on the external trade of arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013, (b) Report on the evaluation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2012, material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01.02-24-14, of 27.12.2014. You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the Commission has adopted both reports and is proposing their adoption to the House. At the 11th session of the House of Representatives held on 13 May 2015, those reports did not receive the necessary entity majority and will be followed up in the College. I give my word to Mr Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u424	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues. I just want to point out that the Joint Defence and Security Committee has decided to accept the Report but without Chapter 3. So that's where it's about, Mr. Vuković is seeing that present, around these surveillance videos at the borders etc. Since this was proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly, this definitely without Section 3. There's only such a brief explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u425	Thank you. Now I give my word to the Reporter, if he appreciates his needs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the 2014 Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the conclusions of the Report, right? Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH there were 8, from RS for 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 with the conclusions of the Report. 11 We move to point eight, that's it, Ad. 8. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-338/15, of 03.03.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u429	It's not a mistake, it's not a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u430	You signed up. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u431	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members, I will first remind my colleagues that according to Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Decisions establishing the Council of National Minorities, the Council of National Minorities shall give opinions, advice and proposals to the Parliamentary Assembly on all issues concerning the rights, positions and interests of national minorities in BiH. If you look at this report, it can generally be concluded that during this reporting period the Council has dealt with itself, meetings on reports, meetings on plans, meetings on working methodology after ten years of establishment, etc. For example. Among the activities of the National Minorities Council, it is stated that it is addressed to schools in BiH to report to the Council on the application of OSCE manuals, a handbook for students on culture, heritage and tradition of national minorities in BiH and the Methodic Handbook for Teachers. Answers received indicate that manuals are used with different degrees of efficiency from the response that is very rarely used to respond to the systematic use of material and stop there. So, there is not a single recommendation in this Report just, let's just say, on this point, and by no other matter what is expected of the Parliamentary Assembly, what should be done, what should the other institutions do, I simply mean the most well-meaning suggestions to representatives of national minorities, probably there are present members of the Council, that in future reports more aggressively in accordance with the law and with their right not only to record their sessions, their own opinions, their dilemmas, their methodologies, etc. but to make recommendations to the Parliamentary Assembly, to give opinions, to make demands on what to do. Uh, I think that in that way, you know there's a large number of people who are in the Council and they have conditions for work and material and everything, so these conditions should be used in a way that meets the role, to ask the Parliamentary Assembly, as I said, and demands and recommendations and measures, etc. So I think that, I don't think there's a drama to be made around the Report right now, but in any case one conclusion with the Report – that the Council of Ministers is expected to receive suggestions and opinions from the Council of National Minorities at the time of the future reports and during their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u432	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no more reports of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 2014 report on the work of the Council of National Minorities. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 12 against none, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, no one abstention. From RS – 4 for, no one against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 2014 report on the work of the Council of National Minorities has been adopted. 13 We move to point 10. That's it, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-37-451/15, of 26 March 2015. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission adopted the Report and also proposes to the House its adoption with the recommendations set out in the Report. The House of Representatives adopted the report at the 11th session held on 13 May 2015. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and appreciates his needs. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There's no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of the Independent Commission. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of present 13 – for 13, against and abstentioned none. From the Federation of BiH, so 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of BiH, foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Penal Code or an international contract signed by the BiH Signator or another court under the BiH law with the recommendations set out in the Report. 11th point, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-486/15, since 01.04.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u435	No microphone 14 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u436	Okay, you don't. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, is there a need? There isn't. I'm opening a debate on the report. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the report on the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency Management Board for 2014. Prepare to vote. You can vote. From the 13 present – for it was 10, against 2. abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, none against and 1 abstention. From RS – 3 for, 2 against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I keep the report on the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency Management Board for 2014 has been adopted. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. The financial plan for 2014 and the Information on the current business of the BiH Export-Credit Agency, in accordance with the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, No: 02-50-19-504/15, of 06.04.2015. You have received the Opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People's House, the Commission has taken note of the Financial Plan for 2014 and the updated Information on the current business of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH, and is proposing to the House to receive them into knowledge. Mr. Radmanović, do you have any? Okay, there's no need to answer that. I give my word to the Reporter, if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Genjac answered. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u438	I thank the chairman. Last time we discussed the report among other things, I asked that the Financial Plan and Business in 2014 be specifically delivered to the 2015 Plan to see what is going on here and what is to be done. I supported the Export Credit Agency's '14 report at the previous point. a year for the reason that the report is objective, shows the state it is and that I think that this agency of BiH and that it also needs its export-oriented enterprises. However, if we look closely at this report, for example where it is said that for 2014 revenue of 23,500 marks was planned, and for '14. One year, the same loss of 1,139,000 was achieved, showing that the cost of profit and compensation is about 1,017,000, then follows that we really have a problem. So, it goes into debt, guarantees don't charge, damages happen, what's given isn't irreparablely obvious. And the Agency has proposed certain measures, because this data shows that 15 have a big problem, these measures are, the Agency proposes that the consequences of the problems in dealing with UNIS F Dervent, that the result of the cancellation of the Resecuritisation Treaty by so far resecuritizers, as well as the loss of credibility of IGA as a guarantee issuer, this is for one export-credit agency disaster. It is therefore limited to the possibilities for continuing operations so that both in the field of guarantees and in the field of guarantees from the Agency propose to try to make maximum efforts to continue operations, while also being sought in contact with legislative authorities possible models for their survival and transformation. And it is proposed that management make efforts to try to overcome the UNIS situation, to seek a way to continue business on the basis of expressed interest, to make maximum efforts to protect capital through judicial proceedings. This is, you know all of this in the sense that we're trying to make an effort, all of this wherever it's mentioned, to make efforts, I'm kind of seeing that there's nothing out of it for a long time. And mostly the legislative authorities are asked to, address the legislative authorities to look for models. I think one of our conclusions should be that the Council of Ministers, uh, put this point on the agenda, analyse the situation with the Agency of Obligations, Perspectives and propose a solution. Because I think this is a major issue of the executive authority, so to conclude it is – that the House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to consider the state of business of the Export Credit Agency and to propose measures to the House. What are these measures, what are they going to be I don't know, but obviously here we have a problem and I don't think we can just take this report to the knowledge or not receive and get over it, there's one agency with terrible problems left there. Therefore, I propose that we ask the Council of Ministers to consider the state of business of the Export Credit Agency and to propose measures to the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u439	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Are there any more reported? There isn't. So I'm closing the debate. Now we've got one, actually a proposal of one conclusion, one conclusion, I'll try to interpret it, if I'm okay, so Mr. Genjac proposes – that the House of People asks the Council of Ministers to consider the state of business in this Agency, therefore, and to propose measures to address the problem within 30 days. Is the conclusion clear enough and can we make this conclusion clear? So let's go first, let's make a statement about the conclusion, so we're making a statement about the conclusion you just heard. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, what did you say I didn't tell you? 16 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u444	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I also need to report, therefore, that the Committee adopted the Report, to say that, within the fourth item of the agenda – Consideration of the State Action Plan on Emergency Cases of Ionising radiation protection in the event of an emergency, which was attended by representatives of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, in addition to the Report on this point of the agenda, we asked the Agency for information on the activities of the Republic of Croatia concerning the disposal of radioactive waste at the location of the Trade Mountain in the Municipality of Dvor – Republic of Croatia, which is just a few kilometers away from the border of BiH, or Novi City Municipality in Republika Srpska. On this basis, since the Agency's representative Mr. Dizdarvić was at the meeting and on the basis of oral information from Mr. Dizdarević, the komisija proposes a conclusion that – committed by the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security to draw up detailed information for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on all measures and actions undertaken and intended to take action to assess the possible impact of the security of such a facility on people, society and the environment on BiH territory. The Joint Commission will consider a session of the information and materials provided on this issue and deliver an opinion to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes with a proposal to include it in the agenda at one of the next sessions. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u445	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. I'll give the applicant information if there's any need. I can't see, there's no such thing. I'm opening a debate now, therefore, on this agenda item. Mr. Genjac signed up. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u446	Thank you. I think the Commission led by Mr. Podžić did a good thing to update this issue. And I think this is a good conclusion, I just think it took time for it to be within 15 days. I think it's 15 days enough to accept this information, because this is a question right now, it doesn't take a delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u447	Thank you. Is there any further interest in the debate on this agenda point? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the State Emergency Action Plan to protect the population from ionising radiation in the event of an extraordinary nuclear accident or the occurrence of nuclear damage. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, I find that the State Action Plan on emergency cases of protection of the population from ionising radiation in the event of an emergency nuclear accident or the occurrence of nuclear damage has been adopted. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this conclusion that Mr. Podžić just read, and I understand I've completed with this 15-day deadline, Mr. Genjac. If I hadn't improvised now, since it had already entered the stenogram, so you heard the conclusion, so here it is. Prepare to make a statement about that conclusion. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find this conclusion adopted. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses for the implementation of the procedure of appointing members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for 19 acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Material No: 03-50-19-587-1/15, of 18.05.2015. At the 5th session of 12.05.2015, the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH established a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was delivered to you. At the 9th session of the People's House, held on 27.05.2015, a proposal from members of the Interim Joint Commission to conduct procedures for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission: Darko Babalj, Mario Karamatić and Sifet Podžić. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the hearing because there's no record of a hearing. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which we have appointed from the House of Nations: Dark Babalj, Maria Karamatić and Sifet Podžić. We're going to the 16th point of today's agenda, that's it, Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion amending the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Law of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-540-1/15, of 28.05.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u450	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates. I can't believe that one such conclusion, without an explanation, practically you, Mr. Chairman, are proposing here. So it's about two names that are our colleagues. At the last session, 15 of us voted for Dragutin Rodić. Today you suggest the conclusion that he changes, that now 13 votes us for it without anyone saying why. So at least it doesn't make sense. So, I know what this is about, but for the public of this House, for all of us here, we need to behave a little more seriously here. I remind you, and I've already done it in this House once, this will pass our time, and someone will read all of this. Do you think, Mr. Chairman, that those who read this will say that the chairman led the dom well, that at one session, he would appoint one and the other and not explain it. You're referring naturally to the entire College, but especially to you. I don't think it's okay. And I don't think I should have. But please explain it to us now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u451	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Ognjen Tadić, Deputy Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for this wonderful opportunity to talk about some differences which are a matter of character and attitude towards political life in the RS, and also in these common bodies, as we are presented. So, clearly, this should have been explained. I'm sure that's what all the bosses or reporters at their clubs have done, as all the members of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates have been informed. Simply, in search of how the BiH Parliamentary Assembly could come to the text of the new Election Law or amendments and amendments to the Election Law as we can agree to do so, and especially given all the problems and challenges we face, as well as the fact that in the last term of four years, the Commission has tried to do so in a similar way and failed, the aim of the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was to get a commission that was so agreed that all political groups were presented as much as possible from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, regardless of whether it was a government or opposition. This isn't about any scheme or any evil intention, this is simply about a primary reaction. 21 We who proposed these suggestions, so Mr. Bosić in the House of Representatives and I in the House of the Peoples, acted according to our character. And which means, if I'm suggesting something and I'm not quite sure at this point how she did the second option in terms of another home, because we didn't have enough time to inform ourselves of the consequences of all the other obligations, then I'm going to make a proposal so that it's at my expense and not at the expense of the other one. It's called humanity in our people. And if humanity is a problem, then we have a lot of serious problems. What would be wrong? It would be wrong for Mr. Bosić and I to react so that he, in the House of Representatives, suggested someone from the Alliance for Change, i.e. the ruling options and that I also proposed to someone from the Alliance for Change in the House of Peoples. And then it would be an inhumanity in the context in which I spoke, which means we have one team that will approach with as much breadth as possible to create a new electoral law or amendments and additions to the existing one. In that sense, I say again, thank you for this wonderful opportunity to see some important facts, I will not say the differences, come to terms in today's work of this session. As for Mr Rodić, he was my proposal because he is an excellent delegate and an excellent expert on electoral legislation. I am sorry that there is no communication, and I cannot say co-operation, because there is no co-operation long ago, but there is no communication between the clubs of MPs, authorities and opposition in the House of Representatives, so that from the House of Representatives someone from the ruling SZP option is proposed, so that we may suggest Mr Rodić. Unfortunately, there is no communication and this correction is not possible to make in the House of Representatives, so we are forced to build it in the House of Peoples, knowing therefore, that Mr Rodić would certainly do this job perfectly. If you're going to tell you the truth, I'd like to say that both Mr. and Rodić and I are in this business, because we have enough experience in the House of Peoples and as lawyers and acquaintances of this matter and participants of all election processes since the '90s. years on this island, we could make a contribution. What I can say is that I will certainly and the advice and opinion of Mr Rodić, especially given that earlier period, be one of the golden bases on which I will base, on his experience and contribution and what should be the views of all of us, from the Club of Delegates of the Serbian People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u453	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Would you like to discuss this point on the agenda further? Mr. Radmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u454	I just have to say a few sentences. I have to, it seems to me that now it's harder for all of us to vote for this conclusion, because we're changing a man by the conclusion that Mr. Tadić has praised so much here, that no one in the world would raise a hand against him, and the conclusion is that we change him. So I invite you not to vote for that conclusion. So, let's vote against this conclusion and stay with the old proposal, just because of what Mr. Tadić was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u455	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Are there any more debaters? 22 So no more reported. I'm Pardo, I'm sorry, Halid Genjac. Mr. Genjac, please, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u456	You know what, until now, an inerresor group has been established several times, which is what I think either 12 or 13 times since the Law passed to this day. I mean, it was always trying to make the most of the parties in that Interresor Working Group, that was the principle. I don't understand who's appointed to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u457	Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u458	You know, if a member of the SNSD was appointed in the House of Representatives, and simply for the reason that the proposal was made by the Interresor Group, composed of the Council of Ministers, by representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Election Commission, representatives of both homes, there was always a rule without exception, that in the Interresor Group they were from all parties and mainly from one party, one representative. Either the opposition or the ruling majority, etc. I mean, it's a fact that's the way it is and practice was the way it was. Of course, I have had excellent experiences with Mr Rodić, and we have worked on it for a long time, and here I think it's not about quality, this quality, but it's about some parliamentary relationship and parliamentary principles when forming groups. I mean, it's important for me to say this for the public and for the way I vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u459	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We are now voting on a proposal for a conclusion, amending the conclusions on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group, to amend BiH's electoral legislation. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Out of the 13 – for it was 9, versus 3, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, no one against, 1 abstention. From the RS – they are 2 for, 3 against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Law of BiH, in which we appointed Ognjen Tadić from the House of Peoples. On the agenda of today's session, there is still agreement to ratify the agreement and amendments to the Treaty. I suggest we bring together the debate and the statement on items 17 and 18 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate, therefore, on this proposal. There's been reports, Mr. Karamatić signed up. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u460	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't want much of this. Like this, when I read, I get caught in the eyes of some key words, so that's how I see BiH, Turkey, military co-operation. It occurred to me again that Stjepan Tomašević and his infamous end, and then I remembered that poor Ingrid was sitting in Geneva thinking that there was still a Bosnian king sitting here. So I remembered that we didn't vote on the proposal for a conclusion, that Mrs. Ingrid Deltner was Deltnere a memo, it doesn't have to be too long or too much to explain. Respected, there is no Bosnia, a nice greeting from BiH. Something like that. And here's the thing I'd like to ask you to do after voting on this, if you could put that proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u461	Thank you. On the agenda of the present, the agenda means this proposal to unite the debate, Mr. Karamatić, and this one. So, is there any more to this matter of dispersion? If you don't, then we'll give it up for a statement on who's up for this proposal. Here, prepare to make a statement on the motion to unite this debate. Prepare to plead. You can plead and vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's both a general and an entity majority. So this proposal has been adopted. Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Military Financial Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial support between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 01,02-05-2-644/15, of 04.05.2015; Add.18. Giving consent to ratifying Amendment No 3 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 21 December 2005 in Sarajevo and 28 December 2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent amendments (the Finance Treaty) to the Zeleznica project in BiH II. (FI 23.376), number: 01,02-05-2-650/15, of 06.05.2015. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. Mr. Radmanović, do you have anything, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u463	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-28-0.u464	Okay, there's no need. I know it does, but I'm asking if there's any need for you to answer it. 24 So I'm closing up, actually I'm opening up the debate now. Does anyone want to get involved in the debate? No Niko's answering. Okay, so I'm closing the debate. We are now voting in favour of ratifying the Agreement and the Amendment to the Treaty of the 17th and 18th agenda. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, we agreed to ratify the Agreement and the Amendment to the Treaty on the 17th and 18th agendas of today's session. The agenda of today's session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is exhausted. I'm closing the session, closing the session. Thank you. Session completed at 12:35 p.m.
