ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1280	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The meeting invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, the BiH Embassy, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the BiH Export and Credit Agency. The session is attended by 13 delegates, of whom from Bosniak 5, Croatian 4 and Serbian 4 delegates. For reasons justified, delegate Sredoje Nović is unable to attend the session, the same situation with delegate Martin Raguž. Until today's session, written answers were also submitted to the oral questions of delegate Zdenka Džambas, set at the 11th session of the House of Peoples and delegate Ljilji Zovko, set at the 9th session of the House of Peoples. Do the delegates want to comment on the answer they received? No, thank you. Now we're going to the session agenda. For the 13th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2016, submitted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 3. Proposal for a Law on Asylum (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15 of 06/08/2015; 4. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the conclusion of the Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications Commission on the Information on Business and Functions of BHRT, dated 28.10.2015, which reads as follows: "The People's People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are unquestionably in favour of the legitimate operation of public broadcasters and strongly supports, in the spirit of international and European regulations and standards, as well as 2 Resolutions of the European Parliament and the provisions of the Constitution of BiH," issue: 02-50-6-16-12/15 of 22.12.2015; 5. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on its efforts to reach agreement on the conclusion of the Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications Commission of 28.10.2015, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH undertakes, as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of 2015, the preparation and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to deliver a proposal to amend the legislation in the field of the Public Radiotelevision System, which will be in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the positions set out in the European Parliament Resolution on BiH's April 2015 progress and a joint statement from the 17th Interparliamentary Meeting of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of May 2015, in which it has been pointed out that it is relevant to the BiH programme of 22.12.2015. Information on the assessment of the situation at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency with proposed strategic options, the BiH Export-Credit Agency material, No: 01,02-50-19-487/15 of 12.11.2015; 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden on Development Co-operation 2014-2020, issue: 01,02-05-2-148/15 of 20.11.2015. Is anyone answering for a word? Are there any proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? No, thank you. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Since there are no amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we're moving on to a statement on the 12th-session record. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates voted in favour, no one was against, and one delegate was abstentioned. From Federation 9 to, from Republika Srpska 3 to 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. 3 We move to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2016, submitted by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1283	Honorable chairman, respected colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since it is one of the most significant documents that each state adopts, which in a certain way generates and policies that the Council of Ministers will lead in 2016 and, of course, with all those obligations that we have made through the signing of certain statements and on our European path, of course, that all assumptions should be contained in this budget as well. Budget, I will first talk about the budget for formal-legal reasons why I think, no matter what we do through this Parliament on 30 December 2015, we are going through the basic legislative procedure and if we were to fully stick to the Rules of Procedure and everything that's been going on today, then it is quite clear that the Budget that is likely to be adopted today, because there are enough votes of the parliamentary majority. However, all that certain colleagues have said for years that this is not good, that Budget we must lead transparently and come to it in a very transparent way, here we see today that we have welcomed the end of the year, and that Budget we have in shape today is likely to be adopted. If we go all ten steps needed to adopt the Budget, from the beginning of this year to the end of the year, then it is clear that we have had a whole series of talks and educations for new and delegates and MPs, as one budget is adopted. Here's an example today that we have a budget that we're going to adopt and ultimately, I hope that at least those who adopt it will have a sufficient framework for next year to work quality. Of course, we often neglect that Parliament's role as a legislative body in the budgetary process is significant, multiple, and the principles of democracy and good governance require Parliament to take on a greater and more significant role in the budgetary process in each country, whether we have done so, it is up to us to judge ourselves. What I think and what I said was that I was preparing myself, at least when Parliament is like the highest institution in this country, I don't think we've been through all those stages that we've been through, to get to one significant document. I propose that next year, at least once in Parliament, and here I am in the second call of the House of Peoples, we go through one complete procedure, that even delegates be able to participate more in creating this important document and eventually through that whole budget cycle that ends with the implementation of the Budget, come up with something that speaks of both the rule of law and everything that matters to all the institutions of function. And here I'm going to say in this first reading and in principle, of course it's possible to put amendments through phase two, but that would probably be a waste of work, but the fact is, and I'm only going to look back on a few items in this budget, which I think they're looking for an additional explanation. We all know that a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in September with seven federal cultural institutions, which had been obliged by the Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide 2.5 million marks for the work of these institutions from 2016 to 2018. And it wouldn't be any dispute, if it were in line with all the legal norms and of course, that we all need to take care of the eye and the culture and the sport, because that way we're promoters, but then we need to do it transparently and that all the institutions of culture and sports in this country play the same role. After all, the budget filling as we know it goes with 2/3 of the Federation of BiH and 1/3 of the Republika Srpska funds. Of course, some have to go through the competition, go with the programs, go with all their suggestions that they think it should be done in quality, and here we see that what we can look at is comparative, that the grants for culture and sport in 2014 were 2.5 million, in 2015 4.2 and 2016, 6 million. Of course, at the expense of that and the budget reserve is today, it looks different and we see that with 5.3 million in 2015 today, the amount that is quite different is about half a million. What is very important is that we all know how to use the budget reserve and why it is necessary. Here, if it is the Council of Ministers' commitment to go this way, that there will be no interventions or that will be resolved in a different way, then it is also the right to make a policy, or even financial, to carry out all those activities that will happen in 2016, it is possible to do so as well. I personally believe that here we are in this time in which there are many challenges in BiH in which we had a very turbulence in 2015 and if we were to return, maybe many normal countries are not going through this kind of trail of events in decades as we did in 2015, it gives us the right to do so in making all policies, and so in creating Budget, we have to do it in a completely different way. We need to make one synchronisation in BiH where 5 will come up with some solutions that will allow BiH to go a whole new way. Of course, it is quite clear to me and it is clear to all of us that policymaking has a parliamentary majority and it is both democratic and perfectly legal. But here, I had a need to say that it could have gone quite another way, and I think that the mood and the people who are with me in the Finance Commission and the budget was to be more actively involved in all of this, that we have one programming budgeting that would be in that budget calendar the way the laws predict. But here, today we have what we have. The budget is, of course, within the budgetary framework it has been so far, of course, seen and certain increases in foreign debt and our obligations to do so. But here, I think the internal structure of the budget was supposed to be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1284	Thank you too, Mr. Rodić. I am in charge of the College of the People's House to clarify this part that is related to the Budget itself and to the deadlines, so that all delegates and the public as well as the public will have one reminder of all this. So, Article 127. The Rules of Procedure say: "After the Paralmentary Assembly of BiH receives a bill containing the Budget of the BiH institutions for the following year, which was directed by the BiH Presidency, in accordance with the Law and deadlines, the Law is prescribed, it is first discussed by the House of Representatives. After the adoption, the House of Representatives shall submit the draft law with Buzjeta Dom no later than 15 November of the current year.’ and Article 3: ‘The provisions governing the basic legislative procedure shall apply when the budget is adopted. However, the College of the House shortens the deadlines and takes all necessary measures to adopt the Budget or, if necessary, amends and supplementations of the Budget, by the 15th of December of the current year." This situation in which we now see ourselves is a situation which is, therefore, conditioned by the work of other joint bodies of BiH, and in this sense I can only say that we, as the College of the House of Nations, have done everything necessary. If at least we couldn't do it by December 15th, as a date of concrete, to do our job, because other people didn't do their job as planned, that at least in the same month, we were able to do it, planning and maintaining this session of the House of Nations, practically on the same day as the House of Representatives. What is also important is that, in the meantime, we have informed all delegates in due time that today is the day for the adoption of the Budget and that accordingly there was room for any objections in terms of amendments to the Budget preparation, which would, of course, be in these two discussions that we are practically having on the same day, perhaps respected. Accordingly, all the conditions that depended on this College of the People's House and our House have been formally met today with a delay of only 15 days, and given the deadline of 15 December for the adoption of the Budget during the current year and we can once again only declare our regret if we are allowed to do so in the light of the fact that they were equal colleagues, which they had previously not been allowed to do, and that they were not able to do their job in good time and deliver this Budget to us by 15 November. So, with all apologies to all of you as colleagues, but also to note that we as Kolega have done everything possible and possible to the Rules of Procedure. So I hope that 6 of this explanation we have given is not understood as an excuse, but just as one analysis that shows that this House is aware of doing this calendar job, which is spoken of by a respected colleague, Dragutin Rodić. Thank you. The word goes on, dear colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We didn't think that the Kolega of this House were responsible for this situation we're in, but we have to admit to ourselves, and to the public, it's completely unusual to hear the last day of the current year, the last day of the fiscal year, we have Budget in our first reading. And it's not the responsibility of this House's colleagues, but there are those who are responsible and we have to point out that. We have to say, it seems to us that 20 years since the war we've been here, we haven't grown up. We've passed laws that are real, but we don't respect them. We must say in this House, but also in the other, who is too late for us to send, who is responsible for it. I will remind you ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers is obliged to submit to the BiH Presidency a draft of the Budget Act, etc. no later than 15 October of the current year. Here's the chairman and his deputy, I guess it's time to hear here if they respected this, whether they sent it to the presidency in time. The second position says, "In line with its own Rules of Procedure, the BiH Presidency," and they called for their own Rules of Procedure when they sent this to us, "it is up to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to deliver the Budget Act by 1 November of the current year." We know the Bureau didn't respect this, we know because we saw the date that they sent us 12 days ago, and they were supposed to be a month and a half ago. Isn't it normal that in September or October we read the news in the media that it is preparing or that it is already in some phase of the draft budget for next year? As counterpart Rodić said most important, but let us assume that one of the most important documents adopted annually by Parliament and not by chance by Parliament. What democracy is it if Parliament, both homes, in one day four reads have and it passes in an hour or two, Budget? And it is the people's representatives who respond to the spending of the people's money, and not the exercise of power, that We convey to them only that they may do it. How are we acting? Not at all. It's no excuse that in the past few years it's been the same or the same. Last year, we didn't discuss it like this, we knew how the Council of Ministers was formed, it was too late. And wasn't it possible for us to do it on time this year? I remind you of a good statement by the chief prosecutor, I think last week, which says -- the BiH prosecutor's office will particularly monitor those who break the law. Is this not a violation of the law, what I'm talking about now? I don't think, of course, that the prosecution will say anything about the Presidency or the Council of Ministers, at the end of this Law, they are not meant to be punished if they are late. It is in the law if you have seen, punishment for those who have been late one day to submit a request for Budget, punishment for those who have missed one day's report not to bear, but not for those who bring us the last day of the fiscal year that we have the Budget on the table, which you did not take or leave, but it is almost like that. Let this be a lesson to all of us how we should work in the future. This authority, which strongly relies on international sponsors here, should ask them if it is so in their countries. We don't notice that they're coming forward about this. For every detail, they hold lectures, criticise, from a high representative to an EU representative. No seven reported saying, gentlemen, you're late with the budget, and you're not a little late. We don't even notice a non-governmental sector that likes to talk about everything and everything, often has the right to mention whether or not we're late with Budget. We are late, and we are responsible, regardless of our direct responsibility, according to the chairman, Tadić. But we're responsible for not pointing to this, for not being able to do this in the future. Naturally, if we went into the details, then we'd find more things. The BiH Constitution said what the budget funds are for, if I remember correctly, in Articles 7 or 8. to finance BiH institutions. Those who are the most responsible here for the Budget, the Presidency, believe that the institutions are church municipalities, monasteries, mufties, individuals who seek various kinds of help. That's what they're sharing money for. And again here we give them the right to share money on it. And no one says it's a violation of the BiH Constitution and everyone thinks it can go that way. Unfortunately, it's been going on for almost 20 years. And this House, and the one who sent us late Budget, would have to stand up against it and say, we're responsible for spending the funds in this country, to call those who were late, if they were late, and here's the chairman and his deputy here, I invite them to tell us if they were late when they sent the Presidency, and for the Presidency we know how it was too late and why it was late and why they shared this kind of money, and we don't know why we're letting them share the money again as they please, without any criteria, beyond any legal basis. Because of all this stuff I said, I can't vote for a budget like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1286	Thank you too, Mr. Radmanović. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1287	I thank the chairman. Of course, the budget has its own meaning and should neither be underestimated nor overrated, especially the budgets of this kind. But what I can agree on, and what I have pointed out on more than once, is not good for Budget to be adopted in one reading, the dimension of transparency and the public that is necessary in such documents and we have pointed out that many times in the last few years, and I think that we can all agree on that and that is not the problem. However, the discussion of the deadlines that exist in the Rules of Procedure, and also in the law, I think it is good and that it has already produced results. I think that when the Council as of now, the Council of Ministers programmed Budget within this time limit, made a proposal and delivered it to the Presidency. And it is rare that until December 18th, the Bureau has delivered Budget to the Parliamentary Assembly. If this provision is given to the Rules of Procedure, which says that the Parliamentary Assembly will do everything possible to adopt the Budget by 15 December, that, for example, the College of the House of Representatives did everything they could, we had from 18 December to today, had two readings. Therefore, and then the House of Nations could have had two readings without any problems. And we all know how hard it is to find an appointment to schedule a committee of parliamentarians because of the various obligations of MPs. Therefore, I would like to say that this trend that the Council of Ministers has to carry out programming, to establish budget, to deliver it in a very good time, although a little later than prescribed, I believe that this proposal will be in business by next year. 8 So, given all this in mind and in view of both the past year and all that has been happening, I think that the Council of Ministers should express support for this approach, to strive that deadlines are respected, to be respected, and we should take a look around the Parliamentary Assembly whether we may have been able to secure two readings for these 10 to 12 days. I think we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1288	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1289	Here's first and foremost to greet you all,...to be brief because, let's not say I haven't had a chance to say some things, but this is not going to say on behalf of the Serbian club, but I will say on behalf of the SDS, that as a man at one point I felt anxious to see the statements of my political rivals in the previous year, a year and a half around the family of the Budget of BiH, conveying jurisdiction, establishing new agencies, and even establishing a new ministry of one and the other. Here I am to thank my colleagues from the other two peoples, and constantly warned about the pressures coming from your side and to tell the citizens of BiH, or Republika Srpska that there was no pressure, that the framework of this Budget was 950 million, as it was in previous years, that there was no weakness in Republika Srpska, that I read, read, read, read, found these new agencies and new ministries. Here I am to inform the citizens of Republika Srpska that there are no new ministries, that there are no new agencies and that I have a short story, that there has been no issue of interest in Republika Srpska, but one normal paper watching us contribute to the communities in which we live, and on this occasion I thank the chairman Zvizdić and Mr Bevanda on behalf of the citizens of eastern Sarajevo and the understanding you have found, and it is called the reservation of funds for the co-financing of the European Winter Olympic Festival, which we should all talk about in the future, because if you dear colleagues do not know, and you gentlemen journalists do not know, these are the Olympic Games until 21 years and will be more competitors in the city of Sarajevo and in eastern Sarajevo than in 1984. Unfortunately, we had no understanding in eastern Sarajevo of the Republika Srpska government, and I thank you this time for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1290	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. It is easy to convince the people, but Slavko Mitrović is not. Are there any more reported for discussion? There isn't. Thank you. We're moving on to a plea now. So, we are voting on the proposal for a Bill on Budget in BiH institutions and international obligations for 2016 in first reading. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 10 delegates, 3 delegates were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, 1 against, no one abstained. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, no one abstained. 9 Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find the draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2016 was adopted in the first reading. We are now opening a debate on the proposal of the College of the House of Peoples to immediately conduct a second reading in accordance with Article 103(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the Kolegijum's proposal to comply with Article 103(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Proposed Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2016 are immediately under review in the second reading. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 10 were for delegates, against three delegates, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, 1 against, no one abstained. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the Kolegijum's proposal for a Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2016 is currently under review in the second reading, as well. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2016 in a second reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 10 delegates were in favour, 3 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, 1 against, there is no abstention. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, there are no abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Bill on Budget is BiH's institutions and international obligations for 2016 also adopted in the second reading. We're going to work at number three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Asylum (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15 of 06/08/2015 Since the proposal for a law is being discussed in the second reading, there is a debate on amendments and votes on the Bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has adopted the proposal for an asylum law together with three amendments which have become an integral part of the text of this Act and proposes its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Asylum at the 21st session of 29.10.2015 in a second reading with a total of six amendments, three adopted by the Joint Commission on Human Rights and three amendments proposed by MP Damir Arnaut. I give my word to Mr Halid Genjac, who was appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1292	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1293	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give the word to the biller, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. And we move on to a statement on the asylum bill proposal. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present - 12 delegates were in favour, 1 was against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, 1 against, there is no abstention. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, against and withheld. There's a general and entity majority, so I find that the Asylum Act has been passed. I find that the Asylum Act has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we must form a Joint Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law. Is there a proposal for a member of the Joint Committee to bring the text of the Law into line? I've been approached by members of the College by some suggestions, but I'm also asking the club chiefs. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. You're proposed, Mr. Genjac. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1294	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-0.u1295	Okay. Mrs. Zovko, you're the one who suggested, don't you agree? In the name of the Serb people's club, is it Babalj? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Grandma, thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
