ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u465	Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you and open the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, our regular guests, the president and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who regularly follow our work at the House, and media representatives, are welcome to all of you together. Also invited were representatives of the Central Bank of BiH, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, the BiH Ombudsman, the Central Election Commission of BiH, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the BiH Gender Equality Agency and the BiH Prosecutor's Office whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. There are 14 envoys present at the session, four of them from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people, five from the Serb people. Ambassador Fahrudin Radončić is not able to attend today's session for justified reasons. As indicated in the call for a session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed for the envoys to ask questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to the 6th session of the House, we have also sent letters regarding the procedure for asking questions in the oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, also referred to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, which sets out the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which governs the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Ljilja in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure for Asking Envoyial Issues in Oral Adil Osmanović, representative Mario Karamatić for the Minister of Justice of BiH – Mr Josip Grubeš, envoy Halid Genjac for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Mr Denis Zvizdić, envoy Martin Raguž for the Council of Ministers of BiH and Minister of Foreign Affairs – Mr Igor Crnadko and Zovko Dragutin Rodić for the Council of Ministers of BiH. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of this announcement were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the BiH Radio Television Service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. 2 Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the envoys of Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u466	Thank you very much, very welcome to all present. My question is for the Minister of Civil Affairs – When will the third meeting of the Committee for Co-ordination of Young People's Affairs in BiH be formed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u467	Minister, you may answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u468	Chairman, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen. In April 2009, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a Decision amending and supplementing the Commission's decision to co-ordinate youth issues in BiH, the Commission has 9 members, 4 members are representatives of BiH's institutions, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is giving two representatives, the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports and the Ministry of the Family, youth and sports of Republika Srpska is giving one representative, while five representatives from the youth NGO sector from the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska by two representatives, the Brcko District is one representative. The BiH Council of Ministers held on 11 September 2013 at the 63rd session on the basis of Article 5. Decisions establishing the Commission for the Co-ordination of Youth Issues in BiH have taken the decision to appoint members of the Commission and representatives of the BiH authorities. In accordance with Article 1(3) of the Decision in question, the appointed members of the Commission have defined the criteria, and on the basis of the call from the public, they have implemented the selection procedure of five representatives of youth NGOs and two members from the Federation of BiH, two members from the RS, one member from Brcko District. The act of 26.06.2014 referred the proposal for a decision to appoint representatives of youth NGOs in the Commission for the Co-ordination of Youth Issues in BiH to the BiH Council of Ministers, but has not been discussed. The subject and material has been re-acted by the number and this, since 15.05.2015, sent to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption, and we expect that it will be included in the Council of Ministers' session soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u469	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is the emissary satisfied with the answer? You can comment if you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u470	Well, I just want to say, uh, that the mandate of the second convocation expired in 2014 and that it should end as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u471	Thank you. 3 Now I give the word to the envoy, Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u472	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I refer the question to the minister of justice because I don't know who else to ask, and I think it's too important, although it's not in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, I don't expect to say in advance that the answer will be such that I can be satisfied with it, so I expect the answer later in writing on what I'm about to ask. The issue concerns the work of the BiH Chamber of Commerce, it goes like this – Article 4. The decision on the level of membership in the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH is prescribed that a member of the Chamber referred to in Article 1(1)(a) of this Decision, which has a realised external trade turnover, pays a membership fee to the value of the imported goods shown in the customs declaration quarterlyly of 0,1% on total quarterly imports, i.e. at least 60 marks quarterly, but no more than the Chamber Act established the amount of membership. Let's call them accounts or notices that come to legal persons, for payment of the membership fee of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, it says that the source of data on total external trade for the legal person to whom the BiH Taxation Authority's account applies. It is also foreseen by the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH that every legal person is a member of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce as soon as it is registered in court. My question is – Given that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH is defined by the Law as an NGO or association, means something similar to the Association of Beekeepers, for example, how is it possible that anyone, in this case, is automatically without a question and consent of a member, to call it that association, any, including the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, which is defined as such? I ask the BiH Ministry of Justice to give me an explanation in accordance with the BiH Constitution and international conventions, i.e. the right to choice and freedom of will, whether someone wants or doesn't want to be a member, or how it is possible that in a democratic society you happen to be a member and that you don't even know, or are you wondering if you want to be a member of that? I am also interested in whether there is an act and if there is an act prescribed or given the authority of the BiH indirect tax administration so that it can dispose of data on external trade in legal persons, or that it can, without the consent of the legal person, give them to the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH for use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u473	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Minister, Mr. Grubeša, would you like to answer the question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u474	Thank you, Chairman, welcome to the envoys. 4 Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr. Karamatić said, the Ministry of Justice is not in charge of supervision, and thus the memberships of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. The Foreign Trade Chamber Act establishing the Chamber, as well as an orderly way of working, forming and functioning of Article 26 provides for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to implement this Act. In view of the above, the BiH Ministry of Justice has no authority, nor is it authorised to have knowledge of the level of membership established by the Chamber of Commerce, which was established by the Chamber of Justice, and I note that the Chamber is a legal person established by law as an independent, as you said, a non-governmental and non-profit public-legal association of business entities and business associations with BiH territory with functions aimed at developing and improving economic relations with foreign businesses, including a partnership relationship and representing the interests of members of the BiH authorities and relevant associations abroad.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u475	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karamatić, do you want to comment, are you satisfied with the answer or are you asking as you have suggested the written answer, I think, tell me?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u476	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u477	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I give my word to Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u478	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your presence, I welcome you all. Before asking questions, I would just ask the College to include the contents of the parliamentary questions in the minutes from today's session, i.e. the delegation questions, in the minutes and answers to them, because in the previous, previous session, this was not done and I think that the content of the question should certainly be in the minutes. As regards the delegation issue, it concerns the rents, the purchase of BiH institutions' accommodation buildings, and I asked the Minister of Finance, Mr Bevanda, at a session held on 29 April 2015, for the cost of renting institutions amounted to 9 million KM in 2013. Council of Ministers for the term of office of 2010 – In 2014, about 20 million were allocated for the purchase of institution accommodation facilities and a large part of these funds were spent and the facilities were purchased. However, a significant number of institutions that have not yet been relocated to these institutions and refuses accommodation for various reasons, and there are some ambiguities that I think the public needs, in front of the public to clarify. First of all, which are the reasons for refusing to move in, which are all objects of which the entities at which the prices were purchased, whether an analysis of the available facilities already owned and which could be used for those purposes was carried out prior to the purchase of those facilities, etc.? At the mentioned session, the Minister of Finance gave me a partial oral reply and announced a written reply, the Minister of Finance's written reply within the business deadline was – that the issue is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, and that for all decisions on purchases and 5 purchases of accommodation facilities, the Office for Joint Affairs of BiH institutions is in charge. For this reason, therefore, since I can only ask the ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I have reformed the question to the Prime Minister's Chairman, believing that the Service of Joint Affairs corresponds to the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers should obtain the necessary answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u479	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u480	Chairman, deputies, distinguished guests and the media, I welcome you all. As you have heard, this question consists of four questions or four questions, and therefore my answer may be a little longer than two minutes in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House. According to the Information received by the Council of Ministers from the Joint Affairs Service, the total area of the office space purchased for the purposes of BiH institutions is 64 514 square meters, and the price of the monthly lease is 841,373 KM. Individual lease prices per square meter range from 3 KM to 41 KM, the most expensive properties that are purchased are located in Banja Luka and the International Airport in Sarajevo, which means that there was no decision so far to regulate the normable area of space per employee, nor the standard, nor the maximum amount of lease per square, depending on the location and quality of space itself. We also didn't have an integrated analysis of the availability of BiH-owned facilities, and that is why the Council of Ministers at the last, last week's session asked the BiH Office for Joint Affairs to make an analysis of the availability of BiH-owned facilities within 15 days, from the aspect of their locality, the degree of their current usability and the potential needs of their adaptation and harmonisation for the needs of institutions, agencies and directors, to determine the maximum amount of leases per square relative to the city and the quality of the space itself, because as I have already said the prices have ranged from 3 to 41 marks, which is extreme and unconstitutional and non-consistent. And, of course, far greater control has been requested, that is, we'll come up with a methodology for deciding how to rent space, because so far it's been very present, and even a dominant practice for institutions to choose for themselves and find and rent space. According to information provided by the Joint Affairs Service from 2010 to 2014 for the purposes of accommodation, the following facilities were purchased: in 2010, a facility was purchased in Mostar at the address of Knez Domagoj, owned by GP Tominga d.o.o. Grude, at a price of 7,402,000 KM. In 2014, four new facilities were purchased and this facility in Mostar area of 1 598 m2 owned by M-ROZIĆ d.o.o. Mostar, at a price of 5,610,000 KM. The facility in Banja Luka at the address Jovana Surutke 13 surface 722 m2 owned by GP Krajina a.d. Banja Luka, at the price of 2,994,000 KM and the facility in Tuzla at the address of Marshall Tito 36 surface 350 m2 owned by Tehnogarada d.o.o. Tuzla, at a price of 910.780 KM and an object in eastern Sarajevo area of 409 m2 owned by Tekoma d.o.o. Prnjavor, at a price of 6 997.000 KM. It was also intended to buy part of the facility owned by Hidrograding about it I'll say something about it at the end of this answer. In the purchased facilities, part of the agencies, institutions and directors did not agree to be relocated, i.e. because of the inadequate accommodation provided to them, according to the information received from the Service for Joint Affairs, one orientation standard which they were conducted, which is 8 m2 of net area per employee and 15 m2 of net surface area per management state official in part of the agency or related to part of the agency is not respected. Perhaps the most recent example of the Anti-Corruption Broba Agency, which in East Sarajevo was assigned a 149 m2 area, although they currently have 27, or very fast because of the transition of employees from the CEC, will have 37 employees, which is then about 4 m2 per employee. The Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution also points out the objection due to inadequate squareness, inadequate space for contact with parties with respect for the principles of discretion, difficult access to the offices for disabled persons. The Agency for the Development of Higher Education has given the same objection, as has the Institute for Missing Persons, which has an additional problem with the lack of space for the accommodation of special funds, the data of 15,982 missing persons, followed by which this Institute is unable to implement the international commitments undertaken. Therefore, at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of Joint Affairs, the Council of Ministers has received, to say, an order from the Council of Ministers to immediately review the decision on the schedule of office space in East Sarajevo and Tuzla taking care of the already mentioned standard and, in particular, to focus on those agencies and those institutes, i.e. the Ombudsman Institution, and I think that this problem will be resolved within 10 days when they will receive adequate space. When, in connection with the issue of Hidrogradnja purchase, it was 3 170 m2 of the Hidrogradnja facility, according to the project itself, the price of 8.997,000 KM, this facility was not purchased, because we have the view of the Law Department issued on 31 March 2015 that the purchase of this facility would put BiH's property interests at risk, primarily because of the fact that Hidrogradnja, the Hidrograding facility of Hidrogradje mortgaged and for the reason that the claims of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, as well as the Tax Administration of the Federation towards Hidrogradja, are extremely large, amounting to more than 52 million KM according to the beliefs of December 2014, and of these institutions have no proof or guarantee that we would be given a smooth entry over the part of the Hidrogradation facility. Thus, the Hidrogradje facility was not purchased, we in the last session of the Council of Ministers actually annulled that decision. The Council of Ministers will make a final decision very soon in view of the needs of BiH's accommodation institutions in Sarajevo, to build a new facility for the purposes of institutions or access to the purchase of a new facility that will not be burdened with any burden or mortgage or that, possibly for the purposes of BiH institutions in Sarajevo, a new facility will be built up in accordance with the applicable norms and standards of design and the construction of administrative spaces where the land for the construction of BiH could be given either by the local community or the City or Canton of Sarajevo, which will be decided very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u481	Thank you, Mr. President. I will now dati my word to Mr Genjac, whether he is pleased with the answer to, when you answer questions, I ask that we follow this Rules of Procedure, and, of course, the second part to be delivered, is in writing. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u482	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u483	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u484	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u485	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Genjac. Now I give my word to Ambassador Martin Raguž. Mr. Raguž, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u486	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys and envoys of the House of Peoples, Mr. Council of Ministers Chairman, honourable members of the Council, honored guests and participants of this session, media representatives. My question concerns the Treaty on border crossings and the border traffic agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which has come into force now for exactly 2 years, in fact on the date of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the fact is that nearly two years have passed and that major problems in the application of this and the Agreement and the Treaty, the fact is that the Council of Ministers in the 88th session in the third month of 2014 formed and gave its representatives in the mixed committees to monitor the implementation of these agreements, and the State Commission for Integrated Border Management will now, one year ago, appoint a negotiating smoke for the revision of these contracts and agreements. The fact is, therefore, that this issue concerns the Council of Ministers, which is why I have also addressed it to the Council of Ministers in view of the role of several ministries and agencies, institutions in the application of these contracts and agreements, so I expect that today I will get an answer if nothing from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, since I see that there is no foreign minister here today. And it is about the situation, therefore, that there have been significant problems in applying these agreements, primarily in those places and locations where there has been a pretegorisation and change in the status of earlier international border crossings to border crossings for border traffic, which is the most objective and difficult in the area of the Municipality of Capljina, i.e. at the border crossing that binds BiH and the Republic of Croatia between Gabela, which is in BiH and Gabela Polja, which is in the Republic of Croatia. This transition until the entry into force of these contracts and agreements had the status of an international border crossing and, regardless of what the parties had and then legitimate requirements to maintain this status, we know the positions of the European Commission of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is legitimately right in view of major problems, especially in the course of the tourist season it is perhaps the most frequent crossings, huge crowds, simple blocking of total life in space and local communities. I think it's time we got a report on what these mixed committees did, what they did, what the negotiating teams did for the revision of these agreements and whether there was a move to solve something before 01/07, or two years before the start of the tourist season, I think the general public is also expecting an answer to this question. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u487	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Can anyone, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, give an answer? The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u488	When there are no ministers, the president is always there. I'll stay inside this time, of course, for two minutes. Therefore, last meeting of the Council of Ministers was just scheduled to discuss information from the State Commission for Integration and Border Management on activities to establish mixed monitoring committees, implement the Treaty on Border Crossing and Border Traffic Agreements between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. The consideration has been delayed due to certain technical problems, and this information will be on the agenda at a Council of Ministers meeting to be held now Thursday. So, as you know yourself, the Treaty on Border Crossings and the border traffic agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia was signed in Brussels on 19.03.2013, starting from 01.07.2013. However, due to public disfavor over the retegorisation of certain border crossings, immediately after the signing of the Treaty in question, the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency adopted conclusions to initiate an initiative to amend the two Treaties, after which the Commission sent a proposal to the BiH Ministry of Security for the appointment of negotiating teams to revise these contracts in April 2014. However, so far, the Republic of Croatia has not shown any interest in amending the Treaty on Border Crossings, and since the bilateral Treaty is of course not to be lost in the sight of changes to the Treaty being made only through the consent of the two parties. Also respecting the contractual obligations under those agreements, BiH has appointed representatives of BiH to join mixed committees tasked with monitoring the implementation of the border crossings and border traffic agreements between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and dealing with, of course, the problems you spoke of in the border and border areas. But so far, the Republic of Croatia has not appointed its members as members of these commissions, although BiH has repeatedly referred to the urgency to carry out this contractual obligation. Therefore, at the session now on Thursday, when considering this material, the Council of Ministers will, of course, task the Foreign Ministry to try to resolve this issue at the highest level in bilateral contacts and to ask the Republic of Croatia to finally fulfil their contractual obligation to appoint its members to the mixed commission, so that they can start working and that these problems can then be resolved quickly, efficiently and promptically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u489	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Raguž, would you like to comment, are you satisfied with the answer? 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u490	So, I think it's a correct response from the president and I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but this answer and the question deserve a comment. This is about it, so it's true that the agreement is bilateral and that it takes both sides' goodwill, so it's like love, right? But it is also a fact that the Republic of Croatia cannot reduce that dimension to bilateral because it is a border with the EU. The European Commission has also played a role in this, and it is clear that the Council of Ministers, in my opinion, is now that it is high time to engage and communicate and in some way act as responsible and the institutions of the European Commission, because objectively BiH has the most damage, its citizens and people, especially local communities, and we have the responsibility of all together and the Parliament and the Council of Ministers to use all the instruments and channels of communication to finally take one practical step in revising these contracts, which is legitimate, finally happening on time and not when the tourist season is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u491	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Now I give my word to Ambassador Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u492	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome everyone present at today's session. And my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads – Is it, and if so, what activities did the Council of Ministers of BiH take on the announced construction of a landfill of radioactive waste in the Municipality of Dvor, Republic of Croatia, and about the resolution and opposition of waste disposal activities adopted by the Parliament of Novi Grad Municipality? I'm saying that this resolution has been delivered to all relevant addresses, and here I'm going to briefly explain. A trade mountain in the municipality of Dvor was chosen without any previous research, without respecting the expert opinion and the opposite of the local population and the population from neighbouring municipalities of BiH. This Decision of the Republic of Croatia may have consequences for the health and life of residents of municipalities and cities located close to the dump site of this type of waste. Given that this is located at the border between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, I think this is a good part of the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, since there is no foreign minister present today, to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u493	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u494	Thank you, of course, for this question. I can say that, given the seriousness of the issue itself and the possible consequences of resolving this problem for BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is taking note of the possible construction of the dump, addressed the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia and requested that it provide us with information on the activities, knowledge and measures taken in the Republic of Croatia regarding plans and the construction of a nuclear waste disposal site in the place of Trgovina Gora. On 4 May 2015, we received a reply from the Ministry of Protection, Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia informing us that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt national documents on the safe management of radioactive waste and documents that will prescribe the obligation to resuscitate locations where natural and radioactive materials need constant regulatory supervision. The Croatian Party also states by this act that the process of strategic environmental impact assessment for the national implementation programme of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Exhausted Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel has not yet started in the Republic of Croatia, and, of course, argues in its response that the national programme was not even started and was not made of course. It also states that, following the launch of the strategic impact assessment procedure, it will fully respect the provisions of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment under the Convention on the Assessment and Impact of the Environment of Trans-State Borders, etc. The Espo Convention, at the same time citing a truly true fact that BiH has not yet ratified the said Protocol. We did not get concrete answers about the locality itself, for the question of the construction of a dump of radioactive waste on the site of Trgovina Gora, by the Croatian side. It is also important to point out that the Croatian side has never officially informed the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or any BiH institution of the intention to build a landfill of radioactive waste on the location of the Shop Mountain, and it is therefore impossible to start the consultation process with the so-called. the party affected by the Espo Convention concerning the possible cross-border impact of that project activity, and having regard to the provisions of Article 5. Espo Convention. It is also important to stress that through the provisions of this Convention no possibility has been given to the affected party to directly halt the potential intention of the other Party in implementing a project activity which could have any cross-border impact. However, we consider this and, of course, our part of the Council of Ministers will do so immediately, which is that BiH should immediately access the ratification of the Espo Convention Protocol. Another important thing is that BiH's authorised institutions direct a proposal to the Republic of Croatia for the establishment of an interstate commission to monitor activities related to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump at the place of Trgovina Gora in the municipality of Dvor. We also believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should express a serious protest against the Republic of Croatia with its act on the possible location of a dump in the Shop Gora, so near the border of BiH, because there is no similar case in Europe that nuclear waste has been created in one place to transfer and postpone it to another place as there is a potential danger of determining the locality of such a dump near the border with BiH. So we fully follow the situation and we will naturally act in accordance with international regulations, contracts and the Espo Convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u495	Thank you, Mr. President. Is the envoy, Mr Rodić, satisfied with the answer? If you'd like to comment, please. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u496	I thank the President for the answer and for the facts presented, but because of the importance of the issue and precisely what the chairman said, monitoring all events, I also encourage from that area, I ask that in accordance with Article 155(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, all this is said, I also get in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u497	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Now we move on to the agenda of today's session. For the 6th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Application of the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-5/15 of 1.6.5; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the agreement of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the same text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in civil aviation, issue: 01,02-02-133/14 of 9.6.2015; 4. Reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2014, material number: 02-50-19-496/15 of 3.4.2015; (a) Financial reports for the year which ended on 31 December 2014, (b) Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2014; 5. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Divide and use of funds of the current reserve”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1202/14 since 13.11.2014; 6. Report by the Office for the Review of the BiH Institutions on the Impact Review on the subject: “Accommodation of Working Military Persons in the Ministry of Defence of BiH”, material of the BiH Institution Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-492/14 since 30.12.2014; 7. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2014, issue: 01,02-10-523/15 of 8.4.2015; 8. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-689/15 of 14.5.2015; 9. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2014, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-37-703/15 of 19.5.2015; 10. Report on the state of gender equality in BiH for the period 2012-2014, materials of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees ( BiH Gender Equality Agency), issue: 02.02/1-37-384/15 of 13.5.2015; 11. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, issue 02-09-674/15 of 12.5.2015; 12 12. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Joint Committee for the Control of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 13. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of inter-parliamentary friendship groups of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border cooperation programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia under the 2013 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01.02-05-2-723/15 of 21.5.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Annex to the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with the Secretariat for the Convention on Police Cooperation for South-Eastern Europe of 21 May 2010 (COM 06/14), No: 01,02-05-2-724/15 of 21.5.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Does anyone come forward for a word and have any changes or are there any suggestions for changing and supplementing the agenda offered like this? Here you go. Who answered? So, Mr. Karamatić, then we have Mr. Radmanović and Mr. Nović. Let's get this straight. Mr. Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u498	I have a proposal to supplement the agenda. At the last session of the House of Nations, we had information about Mrs. Ingrid Deltenra's letter to the authorities of Bosnia, which I responded to. And it was said that Mrs. Deltenra would be sent a memo saying that there is no Bosnia, that there has been no Bosnian kingdom for 500 years, that there is a country that, in accordance with Article 1(1) of Article 1. The BiH Constitution, the official title is Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's what it says. I'll be free to read it. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose official title is from now on Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, there's no Bosnia. The lady sent a letter to the authorities of Bosnia, and I responded, it was said that technical services will be sent, not sent. I have given myself my best efforts and in writing I have prepared a proposal for a item on the agenda, so it means this: - The request to send a notice to Ingrid Deltenra, Director General of the EBU on the official name of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is beautifully formulated. I'm leaving the technical services again, of course I'm asking them to comply with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples say this in a vote. And I have a few more things to say. So when we adopted the name of the state, we all agreed and accepted that the state was called Bosnia and Herzegovina. I often hear, even on public media, the Bosnia or Herzegovina team plays Bosnia, as if it wasn't enough that Herzegovina is always in second place. So, we've accepted it and now it's gone for all of Herzegovina. If it's a lot to say to anyone in those 17 letters, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if this House as the most legislative body thinks it's acceptable to go for a short cut, here I would like to offer a proposal of 11 letters and in the future to call Herceg Bosnia briefly, if necessary. 13 Behold, I would ask the technical services to come for the addition of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u499	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Next, who answered the word? Mr. Radmanović, here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u500	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the chairmanship. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Trade Policy of this House, one contract and one amendment to a contract that is not proposed on the agenda today were discussed. Since the Commission has unanimously adopted these two agreements, since the Council of Ministers and the Presidency has carried out all the discussions and also adopted this, while taking into account the Law on the adoption of international contracts, which provides for the deadline, I propose that we adopt two points of the new agenda at today's session: - Discussing and giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Finance Treaty concluded between the European Investment Bank of BiH and the Federation of BiH, and referring to the Project "The Water and sewerage in the Federation of BiH" and the next point – Consideration and Understanding on the ratification of the Treaty on Guarantee, which relates to the Loan for the Central Heating Project of BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, we propose to the College that we adopt this as an addition to the days of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u501	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Next, Mr. Nović answered, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u502	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. It seems to me that it would be wise and good and urgent to include at today's session the College's conclusion on reaching agreement on the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's just amazing, if we've been around for so long, I'd say for years now, waiting for this law and for all sorts of reasons he didn't pass this House, I just can't find a reason that guides you so that you don't put it in today's session of the House of Peoples. If thousands, thousands, thousands, are walking in this country, quite responsibly speaking, people who have false residences and residences or do not have them at all, if they warn foreign diplomats, if we are losing tens of millions of millions because there are no penalties, if there are not dozens and hundreds of people in BiH to find them, not only to serve punishment but to be brought to justice, I wonder what else needs to happen in BiH besides what is happening, so that at least so much we have feelings and to put this issue on the agenda. If you have a valid answer, I will be glad to hear it, not for myself, but for the citizens of BiH who will certainly not forgive us if we do not resolve this issue and continue to put it under the rug. There's a lot to talk about, but I think it's enough for the initiative to put it on the agenda. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u503	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Now, we have a practical correction of the wrong assumption, right? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u504	Yes, it is. I thank the chairman, I actually have two replicas. First, Mr. Karamatić, on a proposal for a agenda item on a decision to send a letter. I don't think the agenda initiative can and shouldn't be caricated. So, the repeated claim has no Bosnia, it does not serve a serious debate on issues that require the level of this House. He's got Bosnia, but he's got Herzegovina. Bosnia has as a subject, like, and so on, but it also has Herzegovina. And there is Bosnia and Herzegovina and the official name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, really Bosnia and Herzegovina. But to repeat more times there is no Bosnia, and to propose to introduce the name Herceg Bosnia state, to insist on the official names of the state, that I think is wrong and should refrain from it. We know what Herzeg Bosnia is and we know that Herzeg Bosna does not exist in the Constitution. The second thing, as far as the residence law is concerned. I absolutely agree that this question should be resolved as soon as possible. But the reasons for the inability to find certain persons or to process certain persons do not lie in the House of Residency Act. What the Law on residence in the existing variant has offered and which has been the reason for the dispute in Parliament's procedure for a long time, it has offered discrimination against returnees. Whatever the outcome of this adoption and voting on the law, it will end up in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will say the final word. And that is why I believe that the matter should be put on this agenda as soon as possible, and as former participants and members of the Council of Ministers, we could do far more so that this Law does not contain any discriminatory provisions in itself and that these discriminatory provisions are not the reason for this kind of dispute over the law. It states what the consequences of not adopting this law are, they absolutely do not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u505	Is that correcting the wrong quote? Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u506	Dear fellow Genjac, of course there are Bosnians in songs sung. There's a river of Bosnia. There's Bosnia as a region. And I must tell you that you're mistaken if you think there are authorities in Bosnia, they're gone. Just as there is no longer the authority of Herzeg Bosnia that has been brought into the Federation. So here I'm talking about that Mrs. Ingrid Deltenre sent a letter to the authorities of Bosnia, and when I suggested a short name I had in mind one of the most beautiful songs about Herceg Bosnia written by the famous Bosnian Herzegovic poet Mehmedalija Mak Dizdar, so here's a good time to read, it's a beautiful song. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u507	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. 15 Mr. Nović, correction of the false quote. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u508	Dear Mr. Genjac, first of all, it's completely incorrect that it's a discriminatory law. If we had room earlier to finish it all, there was space. And don't open up a debate on the agenda now why it didn't happen, whose responsibility is greater and less guilty. I have only initiated this question to be considered at this House, and what measures will follow, then. I'm not ready, or I don't think we should open a debate about this law right now. We have a chance if it comes to that, but I've just initiated as a part of the agenda, a conclusion on the achievement of the College's consent to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u509	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Genjac called again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u510	Thank you. Mr. Nović, you've just opened up a debate explaining that the law is to be laid down, you've listed all the consequences of this law, very controversial, and you've initiated this to be explained. That's one thing. It's another thing. Mr. Karamatić, I do not dispute you with poetry, sing songs and sing them but outside the House of Peoples session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u511	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Tadić, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, for the sake of the public who, of course, is following all the things we do, I welcome, of course, everyone present in this room not to forget it, because the public who is following what we are doing today is quite strengthened, given the view and activity of the cameras, here it is very important to say the following. Mr. Genjac and Mr. Nović are the heads of the clubs of the delegates, the Serb and Bosniak people. Furthermore, actors are all these stories and procedures related to the law they are talking about, one as a proponent of a conclusion that the College had no agreement on, and the other as a former minister whose ministry prepared the law and then the Council of Ministers proposed the law. Since the very constitution of this House, we in the College have been trying to create a political climate that enables us to discuss this law that leads to its adoption. In that sense, several times we hired ourselves to pass on our application to the boss and to each other's club, to sit down and talk. We weren't informed that you'd ever sat down and talked. And it bothers us, like the College, that you didn't first inform us about whether you were sitting down and talking about how to solve 16 of this issue and why this issue, very awkward at the political moment, is becoming part of this public debate, right now that the cameras are on and why you didn't first inform us about whether you had exhausted all the opportunities to solve this issue previously, as the heads of clubs that would probably be someone who would tell us as members of these clubs that we should vote. It's not as easy for us as the College to work in an atmosphere where any topic, especially in this difficult political situation that we have, attacked from all sides, especially in light of events related to various events that are getting a certain dimension this year which is what it is, that in this House we hold one creative, I would say, relationship and a correct relationship if, in this way, we open these questions. And we ask you really as the most responsible people to first exhaust everything we can before the session begins, so, and then put everything we need to put in the session, whether we can crash or pass. In this way that we have now had this debate, we have felt called, as if we did not do what was necessary, the question of the College of Mr Nović is raised, why is this not on the agenda? And Mr. Nović knows why this isn't on the agenda. You know, Mr. Nović, you're very clear about that on my part. If you want us to open it then I warn you that this is how we open a topic that may not be in the interest of the RS. We're serious people, so I'm begging you, we're having a hard time working, as a member of the College, we've been called. You asked for an answer why he didn't, and I tell you why he didn't. The answer can't be nicer than this, this is the most pleasant answer possible. Everything else would be much less pleasant, and it's not our goal. I really ask you, therefore, that you understand this as our appeal that in one of the very difficult months to come, you help us as the most responsible people, club chiefs, that all these questions, and also this issue from the past Council of Ministers' mandate, we solve in spirit, not dispute, but if we need to take that law and from letter to letter fine talk in office, so bring it here to adopt or bring it down, depends on what will it be. So this is one of the topics for which we ask you to be the subject of compromise, not the subject of political conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u513	Thank you. Now, Mr. Genjac has answered again, but you're already twice, I think, discussing, perhaps in a discussion if
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u514	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u515	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u516	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u517	And to Mr. Tadić, come on, come on, we'll give you, come on, come on, come on. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u518	So, they haven't gotten to me by now, they've been calling for club presidents to make an effort on this bill. So, but now I've heard that appeal and I'll do my best. After all, I have made an effort by proposing that this law be converted into a regular procedure and that space, political dialogue and compromise be opened through the amendments. There is no other solution and that offer is on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u519	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. So, in the meantime, the College did, let me put it this way, ad hoc consultation, and when it comes to the word ____________(?) Nović, come in. Oh, sorry, wait a minute, I don't see where it is. _________(?) First Nović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u522	Listen, there's no need for you to give us something that's someone else's responsibility right now. It's up to the College to do what his jurisdiction is, and you're in charge, then officially open up as a item of the agenda, and bring a conclusion to this House, and we'll see if that conclusion is acceptable or not acceptable. Excuse me, what does that mean, you're sitting two representatives, or the chair of the clubs, and you can sort that out. The club chairmans were sitting, not once, not just these two at the moment, but in the last term, and you're now saying you're transferring responsibility that it's exclusive responsibility to two people in this House. I accept that, of course I can't. If you want us to deal with it politically, if you think it is a obviously difficult political issue, then there is another way to resolve it. But to switch to only two people, so there's a third nation here. So that's a question for everyone who sits here in this House, that we solve this issue together. But if you're not ready to open it at all today, that's on the agenda, okay. It's not on the agenda, it won't be accepted, then we'll look for another solution. 18 So I asked nothing else but whether you accept that today be on the agenda. We don't accept, we move on, and then we'll talk about all those questions that you and Mr. Tadić are talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u523	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mrs. Zovko checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u524	Well, here's what I'm asking for a break for 10 minutes to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u525	Okay. Come on, I'm taking a break. It's five minutes, it doesn't take 10. [[PAUZA]] Dear envoys, honourable envoys, here, after this break, we continue our work. So we're on the agenda for today's session. We've got three proposals to supplement the agenda. And we will declare ourselves individually about each of the demands to expand today's agenda. The first request is from the envoys of Mr. Karamatić, which is a request to send the notice to Ingrid Deltner to the EU's general director, pardon the EU's Emitter Union, and is related to the name, the official name BiH. Did I read that correctly? Okay. So now we're going to plead individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u527	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u528	So about each of the demands individually. We can't, we have to especially, yes, we can't now about all three when, especially, well, it is individually and especially, whatever. I'm asking you to prepare for a plea. You can plead now. From the present 13, 8 were for, against it was 4.1 he was abstention. So there's both the general and the entity majority, and so it's become an integral part of today's agenda. 19 Or we'll finally get back to the agenda, but here we go in order. So the second request was from Mr. Radmanović, if I'm not mistaken, yes. I will now, whether you should read individually you are already, but still. So it's two agreements. They've already been read, but here's the stenogram maybe, though, so here's the next one. Consider granting consent for ratification of Amendment number II to the Finance Treaty, concluded by and between the European Investment Bank of BiH and the Federation of BiH, 15.07.2018 in Sarajevo and 18/08 in Luxembourg and subsequent Amendment to the Treaty. This is the Funding Treaty for the Water and sewerage project in the Federation of BiH, so it is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury No. 01,02-05-2-793/15 of 11.06.2015. The following is an examination of the approval for ratification of the Treaty on Guarantee relating to the loan agreement for the project Central Heating Prijedor, between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the jurisdiction of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury number: 0102-05-2-822/15, from 18.06.2015. So we're going to make a statement again, and here's the individual on one request and on another. Please prepare for your plea. First we go to this one, Amendment number II. You can plead. Vote now. Out of the 13, 13 were for, no one against, no one restrained. There's a general and entity majority. So this Amendment number II, so this is a proposal to give consent, related to granting consent, has been given both the general and the entity majority. Now we're going to make a statement about the second proposal, it's giving consent to ratification of the Guarantee Treaty. I'm asking you to prepare for a plea. You can plead. Vote now. So the result is the same. Of the 13 present, 13 were for, against and withheld. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So this item of the agenda will become an integral part of today's agenda. I don't have this conclusion here right now, Mr. Nović, but if I get it right, the conclusion goes to the law,... If I am here, I have well followed Mr Nović, at today's session of the agenda to find him, therefore, the conclusion of Mr Genjac about the reconciliation, and it refers to the Law on residence and residence. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] It is, therefore, a procedure, if I understand correctly, because Mr. Genjac suggested that it go according to regular procedure, and the law was proposed by haste procedure. Here, so can we make a statement about whether it's today or not? Of the 13.5 present for, versus 8, no one was abstentioned. So there's no general majority, so this today, so this proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, has not passed. 20 Therefore, since these two points have already entered, I ask the services to prepare the new agenda, so that all envoys may receive the agenda of today's session. He's been updated so, with these three points of the agenda. We're crossing now, it'll be at the end, so we'll add them, the last three points add. We're moving on to today's session agenda. So let's go to the first item of the agenda, which is, ad.1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Anybody want to discuss it, do you have a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We are voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, 13 were for, against and withheld. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. Application of the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-5/15 of 1.6.5.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u531	Thank you. 21 I am aware that it is a procedure, but I personally do not see any point. So, the Law on the Public Television System of BiH is, like most things in this country that don't work, imposed by the international community, i.e. OHR. The law was not agreed between the three constituent nations and we currently have a situation that the BiH Public Radio Television System is slightly collapsed. I think this law that's in the process doesn't solve anything at all. And here I appeal to this College, to this House as well as to the Council of Ministers, to sit down urgently and to make a whole new law on the Public Television System in which a part of the European Parliament resolution on the necessity of establishing a TV channel in Croatian will be respected. So we have to do one radical reform. It is not a public channel in Croatian, it does not mean anything if Darijan Babić reads on Croatian news. I don't see any movement here. So we have to do something that will satisfy all three peoples in this country, which will allow us to complete the digitalization process that is in total stalemate. And he was an emergency, with these technical changes that were proposed in the law, I don't see any urgency, because it's still not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u532	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. There are no others reported. I am closing the debate and we will now vote on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I ask you to prepare for the vote. You can vote now. Out of the 13, for it was 8, versus 5, the abstention was no one. From Federation of BiH 5 for, versus 3, abstentioned no one. The RS was 3 for, 2 against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, a request to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH by an urgent procedure has been adopted. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone answering for word now? I don't see a report. If there's no interest, then I'll close the debate. So, I'm closing the debate. And now we are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. Out of the 13, 7 was for, against 6, the abstention was no one. From Federation of BiH 4 to, 4 against, no one abstentions. From RS 3 to, 2 against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH has been adopted. 22 We move to the 3rd agenda of today’s session. [[Disable microphone]] That's Ad.3. Report by the Joint Commission on the agreement of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the same text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in civil aviation, issue: 01,02-02-133/14 of 9.6.2015 So, at the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 18/05/2015, the House of Peoples adopted the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH with 42 amendments. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH at its 7th session, also with 62 amendments. Since the Law was adopted in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, the House of People was held at the 4th session on 18.05.2015, in the Joint Committee for the Consensus of the Text of the Law, it appointed representatives – Sifet Podžić, Lilja Zovko and Dark Babalj. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the law, the said Law held at the meeting on 04.06.2015, reached agreement on the same text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in civil aviation, and the report on which we are to be made known today. The commission proposes to the House to adopt the report and adopt the single text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH, with amendments adopted by the Joint Commission. I give the word to Dark Babalj, appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur at the House, if he naturally appreciates his needs. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u534	Here's to saying hello first. You've said a lot of things to the esteemed chairman. On 4 June 2015, the Commission also held a session in which amendments II and LXI, as you said, were adopted in a different text in homes. This was about differences of technical nature in the content of the amendments, so that the Commission unanimously, means that it unanimously reached an agreement on the identical text of the Civil Aviation Liaison Act and in this respect, we propose to the House the adoption of this Report and the adoption of the Law in question with the amendments contained in the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u535	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting a word in? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. 23 We are now voting on the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on reaching agreement on the same text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 13 present, for 13, there were no abstentions. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, on reaching agreement on the same text of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH, was adopted. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. That's Ad.4. Reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2014, material No: 02-50-19-496/15 of 3.4.2015; (a) Financial Report for the year ending 31 December 2014, (b) Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2014 You have received the opinion of the Committee for Finance and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission adopted both reports and proposed their adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted those reports at its 12th session, held on 28.05.2015. I give my word to the President, or to the Chairman of the Committee, to Mrs Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, if you appreciate your need, go ahead. There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We are voting on the Financial Report for the year which ended on 31 December 2014. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 13 present, 13 were for, against and withheld. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, from the Federation there was 8 for, from RS 5 for. I agree, the financial report for the year which ended on 31 December 2014 was adopted. We are now voting on the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2014. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, they were all for, against, and abstentions. So, from the Federation it was for 8, from the RS it was 5 for. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2014 has been adopted. 24 Moving to point 5. That's Ad.5. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Divide and use of funds of the current reserve”, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1202/14 of 13.11.2014
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u538	Thank you very much. Well, here's what you said, I just want to highlight here the role of the Audit Office. This is very useful information for us and every analysis of them, especially these impact reviews, should be a guideline to how we need to make things right, what to do. So we gave that 90-day deadline to really do it in detail, do it. Especially now, let's say a new synergy where new forces have come, to show all their abilities and desires to arrange properly. Here's a thank you and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u539	Thank you, ma'am. If you think it's necessary, if not, thank you very much. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Eh, there's been reports. First Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u540	I thank the chairman. I think this calls for serious attention and this report of the auditor and the content itself. Therefore, the Impact Review Report, among other things, indicates that significant weaknesses exist in the process of available funds for the current reserve. The problems arise because of the lack of implementing acts and instructions and the lack of understanding of the purpose of the assets of the current reserve, which are intended to finance non-profit organisations, shall be available 25 non-transparently, leaving room for corruption, i.e. the use of a public position to achieve an inappropriate benefit for themselves or others. Current reserve funds are not used to finance emergency and unforeseen situations. Instead of financing and reducing the consequences of natural disasters or financing areas of public interest, the ongoing operations of BiH institutions have been financed. So these are extremely dramatic warnings. And finally, of course, the report contained a series of recommendations that I think are the only way to get this area under control and bring about a purpose. Among other things, in the recommendations, the auditor recommends to adopt rules and procedures for the use of funds, to identify areas of special and public interest, which will be financed in a transparent manner from the funds of the current reserve. Regulation of the public conditions and procedures to be applied in cases where the decision on the intervention of funds of the current reserve is to be used... chaired or its deputies. Establish effective control mechanisms etc. etc. I think, in the meantime, we also received a notice from the Minister of Finance from the Council of Ministers called – Instructions on the exercise of the rights of users from the current reserve for 2015. The instruction has some technical improvements, but only technical, with regard to recording, in terms of, etc. But the very essence of the means, the very purpose of the means, the public itself, the transparency itself, these instructions have not been treated at all. So it's still, without, it can be without criteria, without purpose, without purpose, etc. But it's important to record. On occasion, it's the contents of the instruction. That is why I think that this conclusion, which requires the Council of Ministers, that within 60 days or 90 days, I apologize, prepare and inform the Parliamentary Assembly of the measures which have been taken or recommended by this Report, I think it is extremely important. But I'm saying, this is the area that finds an auditor with such dramatic warnings, they're simply asking the Parliamentary Assembly to observe this permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u541	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The next envoy, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u542	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates to the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. I want to, not specifically, and I don't want to talk much about these impact audits, but I'm just going to remind this House, or even an esteemed fellow Genjac, that we've had over 20 impact audits in this House so far. And I'm just going to count for the significance of these audits, and then I'm going to say a few words about what I mean next. We have also discussed here the assumptions for effective work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption, the management of works and contracts on temporary and occasional transactions, telecommunications solutions in BiH institutions, the management of goods taken into account in customs procedures, conditions for effective and effective control of VAT and forced collection of debt, results of public administration reform, the effectiveness of FIPA in attracting foreign investment, the reform of the effects of public services, monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations of the audit, the work of the BiH institutions, the procurement of computer equipment, the management of the costs of leases, the work and accommodation in BiH institutions, what you have asked in your question, the housing of returnees, the multi-annual capital investments in 26 institutions, expenditure on judicial disputes, air traffic control, the management of the rolling stock in BiH institutions etc. etc. Why did I list this and why do I think it matters? It is important because of the role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in all of this. We in the Parliamentary Assembly unanimously supported all these impact audits and gave them enough strength and gave them what the Parament should do. As a result, out of these 20 impact audit reports, the results of the 8 reports published and which were discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly were published in 2013 and 2014. The findings of all of what we had, no recommendation was implemented in full, somewhere around 20% of partially implemented recommendations, 64 in the initial phase of realization, and 16 recommendations were not taken into account. What I want to say today is this. All reports on these impact audits in the House of Peoples, including commissions, have been well accepted in the Parliamentary Assembly and very high quality discussions have been conducted and I have to say much better quality on the Commission, which is quite normal, than on this House itself. When we analyzed together with the main audit service and all of this, when it comes to these reports, we came to the conclusion that the Council of Ministers selectively considered these impact review reports, that there are no procedures in dealing with these impact audit reports, which has been found to be minor in each of these reports, and that the revised institutions are not looking for feedback on the implementation of the recommendations, which is what the Commission has strengthened this conclusion and I think it will adopt this House. And of course, all these reports were very rarely taken, although the reports were transparent and public, very rarely taken, any measures for the sake of certain irregularities in these reports themselves. What I can say and what I can finally see from all these audits, the financial audits we've had all these years ago, that we and we'll see in 2014 less and less of a problem with financial audits. Many things have been improved, many institutions have also received positive reports or reports with a distraction, etc., and I think that these impact audits are something quite different and something that can ultimately help in the work and that can make everything that we analyze through various other issues, but also in legislative activity what is our primary task, is to install some of these positive things into laws, and above all to provide control. I fear that only with the support of Parliament's declaration that we are coming into a situation that we will always agree on these things unanimously, but I am afraid that we are missing step two and a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u543	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Babalj signed up next. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u544	I didn't mean to answer, but here I was offered by Mr. Genjac and my colleague Dragutin Rodić. And again, we apologized nicely, and here in the previous years, all of us, as Mr Rodić and Mr Genjac said, apologize nicely, make conclusions, but these conclusions are not respected. And what our fellow Genjac read, it's all true and that's how it should be said that and how we give credit to the review of the courage of what they write and what draws attention to what's wrong, by law and regulations. However, 27 key questions are raised – What can we do other than the recommendation? I don't think there's anything we can do. What we can do other than say that we're all against corruption, against crime, and here's what we talked about today about 9 million every year for public procurement of business spaces, about all these things about reviewing, we're going to list tens of millions of potential corruption affairs, and we all know that's the case. Then when we come and say the Prosecutor's Office, the Court and countless police agencies in BiH are not doing their job – Why? So because they all, they need to take these reports and analyze what we're talking about and analyze, of course, what the audit is talking about. And then it's said why you don't support the D.A.'s office at one of the next points, so here's why, because they don't do anything, because the review says that corruption and crime are booming in this country and we're nodding that that's how it is, but we can't delegate, or MPs arrest people we think are guilty of, I guess there should be a system in this country, and the real address is this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u545	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. I don't see any more reports or interests in the debate, so I'm closing the hearing now. We vote on the Report with the recommendations contained in the Report. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH there were 8, RS 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the review of the impact on the subject: "The distribution and use of the funds of the current reserve" with the recommendations contained in the Report was adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I conclude the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're going to point six, that's Ad. Six. Report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Accommodation of persons employed by the BiH Ministry of Defence", material of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-492/14 since 30.12.2014. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples, the Commission has accepted the Report with recommendations contained in the Report and proposes its adoption to the House. The commission also adopted the following conclusion whose adoption proposed to the House: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the BiH Ministry of Defence to report within 90 days to the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary 28th Assembly on planned and undertaken activities in the implementation of the recommendations from the Report, and to inform the Office for Auditing BiH institutions about the activities undertaken. At its 12th session, held on 28.05.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with one conclusion. I give my word to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee, Mrs. Zovko, if she appreciates the need. No need, thank you. I'm giving word to the Reporter now, again if there's any need. No, thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting word on this agenda point? Mrs. Džambas, here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u547	I welcome my colleagues and colleagues first, and then all present. You can see that our Committee for Finance, Mr Rodić, Babalj, a team that works yesterday, we were visiting as representatives, or as the Commission in the office for, which we are talking about today, we were at seminars in Jahorina together with human rights, the Human Rights Commission and the Human Rights and Gender Equality Agency, and I wanted to ask the question of representation, but I gave up because I'm going to say what I think today. So, in this report, which we have received from the revision, it is evident that since 2006, actions of this Office have taken place to improve and reduce costs related to the accommodation of active military personnel. Nothing special happened, it was supposed to make an action plan, so it's late, and then the information comes, so it's late, so one of them was to go to three military offices in Rajlovac, Chapljina, Derventi to provide room for those people. But when you look at it, what it says in the revision, it makes up a total of 10% of people who could be placed. Then the 2012 budget gave 3.5 million opportunities to make something on this plan, to get savings, because then savings would be, as it says, around 11 million marks. However, he is late for the budget and is then not to lose the 3.5 million there before the end of the year, it is transferred to equipment, which is certainly needed by the military, of course I have nothing against, but it is not used for what was given. Not to say again, everything Mr. Babalj and Mr. Rodić said in the previous report, we absolutely agree that this is the state of what we see on paper. It should also be said that at these seminars that I mentioned there is an action going on to now new budgets for 2016, that they are also gender-responsible, and that at all levels you can see how to help in this case women in employment and on our inquiry – what can we do at the state level? They said it was about the Ministry of Defence and Security where women can be employed, which will also increase some of the costs, which means that I am convinced that our new minister as a minister, as a woman, will make sure that future employment of persons employed, military personnel are both women and I am very glad that we also have women on missions. And there will be additional costs in the sense that equipment especially in military parts for women, I mean also hygienic and all other needs of women, means special where they will be showered and everything else prepared and their equipment, because they know they wear a man's equipment, so very little has boots at least 42, they're in boots 44, they're in man's uniforms, but they're in the man's uniforms, they're in a special uniform for women, so it's going to be a special 29 added cost, but I don't consider it a cost, it's important that there's a woman there. And at this accommodation, you know, when you say you're going to put it in a room, it says seven soldiers, it can't, it won't be that way because it's going to have to be separate, of course, for women. I repeat, it's not a cost, it's a matter of taking care of it. And since the elections were in 2014, a new minister came in and since I don't know what can be done in 2015 because we adopted that budget the other day literally, then these 90 days, I don't know what the Ministry of Defense will do to us, I don't know what it will do when it isn't for all these years from 2006 to '14. Nothing made in reducing these costs, but then at least to bind to 2016. On the question of Babalja – What can we do as envoys? I think we can break the budget. So if we don't respect the recommendations of not only this one, but all we get in 15 days, all the reports, if we don't respect what we write that in 90 days, at least we're told, that we get back the information they think we do in terms of repairing the situation, there's a budget that this year, we promised to do a fine budget, so we're going to have a nice session, so we're going to adopt it in the right way by law. And already we are, we have learned the same thing at our seminars, that we are at the fifth step of the budget, so it's high time that here at this point, now, today already knows what's going to be in the 2016 budget. According to this, the Ministry of Defence should also help, but they themselves should say in what way they want, it says here in the recommendations how, it is recommended that these total costs be reduced, for some time it would be a long time while buildings are being made and how they are already making recommendations, but that we finally know what this will be, that they are not 8 million costs, that that is 45% of the total costs is for the DKP and all of these that work in BiH institutions, rather than to be reduced to as little as possible. So, one way Babalj exists, the budget is if we accept that someone doesn't come to us after 90 days, won't tell us where they are, or what they are, if they've ever accepted the recommendations, some of them absolutely don't answer, and we're still adopting through the budget that they get the funds, what they're doing there doesn't matter, they have a million, they're going to spend a million. Was that useful, if it wasn't effective we don't know, according to that coming budget, we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u548	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. I don't see any more reports, I don't see any more interest, I'm closing the debate. And now we vote on the Report together with the recommendations contained in the Report. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 13, against no one, he was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH - 8 for, against no one and 1 abstention. From the RS – 5 for, against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Accommodation of persons employed by the BiH Ministry of Defence" with recommendations contained in the report was adopted. We are now voting on the zaključak of the povjerensatvo on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. Get ready, you can vote. Of the 14-14 were there for, against, and without abstention. From Federation of BiH 9 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. 30 Constants The conclusion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Moving to point seven, that's Ad. Seven. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2014, issue: 01,02-10- 523/15 of 08.04.2015. You have received the Opinion of the Constitutional Authority of the House of Peoples, the Commission adopted the Report and proposes to the House of Peoples to open the debate and adopt a report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2014, together with the proposals, opinions and suggestions contained in it. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 12th session, held on 28.05.2015. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Genjac, if he appreciates his needs. No need, thank you. I give my word to the Reporter again if he appreciates his needs. No need, thank you. I'm opening a debate now. Does anyone report on this agenda item, therefore, the Attorney General's Office's work report? I don't see any interest, I'm closing the debate. And now prepare yourselves for a statement, and we now vote on the Report together with the suggestions, opinions, and suggestions contained in it. You can vote. Of those who were present, 13 were not for, nor for those who were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. We can therefore conclude, or I will conclude, that the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2014 together with the proposals, opinions and suggestions contained in it has been adopted. We're going to point eight, that's Ad. 8. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-689/15 of 14.05.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u551	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u552	You can sit if you don't, you don't have to get up if it's a problem, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u553	...I may have been a little late, and you've concluded too quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u554	Never mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u555	It's the middle, the possibility of me saying something. Thank you once again, warm welcome to all and members of the Central Election Commission who I see are here in the content, quality composition which shows that they are following this report. I don't think it's a good idea for a book like this to pass us by just like that. This is the report on the implementation of the most significant laws governing the electoral process, conflict of interest and the financing of political parties concerns, part of the last General Elections 2014, all segments of the election process with recommendations and, in that sense, methodological and substantively, it is really serious and responsiblely prepared. But I haven't reported that I would talk a lot about what happened before, but I did report as a direct participant of all elections from Dejton to today, and the fact is that from taking responsibility from the Central Election Commission one big step forward in taking responsibility for this important social area by domestic structures. But I also responsibly argue that over this whole legislative and electoral process, there are a large number of questionnaires and I will merely point to some of them out of this responsibility. So, the non-implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning requests for amendments to the electoral law, it's a complete collapse of the legal order in BiH, whatever anyone thinks, whatever anyone thinks, and I want to underline it here. It is not just a ruling of the Constitutional Court regarding election rules in Mostar, we have several such examples, but the fact is that for nearly five years the City of Mostar has no choice, and that we, as legislators, and neither the bodies, the institutions responsible for implementing the laws and amending them have responded adequately and led to the possibility that the City of Mostar has elections in accordance with the Constitutional Court's rulings and the BiH Election Law. It is something that absolutely cannot be tolerated anymore and in this sense I do not want to locate responsibility she is also in this Parliament, of course, because we are not in, although there have been attempts in the 32 previous composition, managed to come to a compromise. Of course, there is a necessary compromise, a solution that will satisfy everything, not prefer anyone on a partial basis, but we also cannot allow only one local environment, and not just any environment, to be paid the price of unpreparedness and inability to implement the Constitutional Court's decision and to amend the Electoral Law. And in this context, I believe that this dimension should have been significantly more widely absorbed both in this Report and by the Central Election Commission. The Central Election Commission has always been represented and that is logical and it is justified in the Interresor Working Group with its members and has also the responsibility to initiate the transfer of changes as well as Parliament. Or else let him give up that responsibility. So, and I have to repeat here, we've seen this time how an interresor working group is formed, formed it ruling, okay that's legitimate right, all regular, but it's also the responsibility of ladies and gentlemen, and responsibility. Because in the last session, the interresor working group has not come up with any proposal consistent with this one... I do not want that to happen again, I point out, and therefore I want this to be a priority in the work and of the Central Election Commission, the Interresor Working Group and us Parliamentarians and I am absolutely not running away from my own responsibility and responsibility all of us here. That's one question. The second question is, we can always hide behind that rhetorical, declarative election scores are past okay, okay, less successful and all, but ladies and gentlemen there are a few things I have to talk about today. The way of the election, the composition of the electoral committees, their actions, the continuation of the election after 19 hours of the end of the election, the elections begin to a significant extent in BiH, and why are we hiding it, why are we hiding it, for whom we hide it, who we have the right to do so, I place here as an envoy to the House of Peoples, undo any vote in this country, father, mother, child of 18 years of age, waiting for his fundamental human right to vote? The world's largest percentage of invalid ballots is in BiH, and we still need to get through here like it's all normal, eight, seven ninety-nine and something. Watch comparative countries in the region so you will see Croatia, Montenegro one point something etc. So we have a fact that the non-transparentity of financial flows during campaigns and political parties also deserves a special observation, and I would no longer want this one here, not a single element, not a single word of politicisation, so I believe that the great cause of the great passivity of the electoral body and the belief that everything here is finished and dead before the elections and the great belief of almost 50% of the people that you can't change anything and that's why they don't go to the elections. That it also needs to be considered mandatory to go to elections, as some of the most developed democratic countries have legal regulations. So by considering this report, I believe that it is a good basis and a good basis for correcting the situation in the electoral process, a change of these laws that are within the responsibility of the Central Election Commission and the responsibility of our parliament that we do indeed make these changes, and not that this situation in which the years of failure is silently intended to continue, I think it is really not good for Parliament or for the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u556	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. If there are any other envoys to answer for the word, if not, I will give my word to the President of the Central Election Commission, Mr Šantić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u557	Dear chairman, vice-president, distinguished delegates and delegates, guests, media representatives. Here I did not want to hear from you after the initial discussion after the chairman of the Constitutional Commission said that there was no need to speak about the Central Election Commission's Report, but was encouraged by the discussion of the distinguished delegate, Mr Raguž, whom I greatly appreciated, however, I felt that it only took a few words to address this yet important meeting. What do you say? So, this first finding in terms of non-implementation of decisions by constitutional courts once again here, we must draw the line that the Central Election Commission, within its responsibilities, can initiate amendments to the electoral legislation and, in this sense, in all the recommendations of the last General Elections, then the local elections in the last three election cycles, we are an explicit guide to our recommendations that the decisions of constitutional courts should be implemented, including this of the Constitutional Court concerning the issue, namely the City of Mostar's solution. And this report, which is also in front of you, means, in the recommendations, it also contains this recommendation, along with a series of other recommendations, means, which we thought we should find a place in this report. What I'm saying is, if I took the opportunity, I'd like first of all to ask those institutions who didn't finish their work on forming an inter-resor working group to bring this job to an end so that the inter-resor working group was recently established and started working. One more thing, you know, everyone, practically every election cycle since the Central Election Commission is the Central Elections Authority is sometimes justified, sometimes not from a public change of criticism in terms of late announcement of election results. In that sense, I must tell you, in the technical sense of the elections in BiH since 1996, so it will take 20 years to happen, in technical terms, the choices are practically carried out in the same way, in technical terms I speak. Although there were 19 interventions on the basic text of the Electoral Law in technical terms, the provisions on the Electoral Law remained identical, which means that the process itself of determining the results at the polling site of the voting process was not changed. In that sense, in the Central Election Commission, we consider it and I have summed it up in some three syntagmas here that I am going to say in which direction we should move further, primarily an inter-resor working group and other institutions in charge of amending the Election Law. This is primarily information, simulation, education and I will say a smaller degree of politicization, not to use a larger, larger argument of depoliticization. What I mean. Information on the election process for the past 20 years has only been carried out, so from that middle election process, it means from local, or city election committees to the Central Election Commission, and here we have an electronically connected system that works. We all agreed that the elections take place at the polling station, and that's the conclusion and that the election committees do so, in that segment we should also know that this House knows, that no information aids in the polling station are absolutely gone, so everything is done which we would... say on foot or manually. Radical changes can only be made, so if we meet our goal here that what we have before the results, are interventions at the polling station and is exactly that information process. So that's where you waste time from the moment, from the way you vote, the way you count, the way you figure out the results until the moment these results are delivered to the municipal electoral commission. After they are delivered to the municipal electoral commission, the process is already going through some stalking rhythms and going to the Central Election Commission, so there's the main link, and that's where we need to introduce the technique. And that technique, my dear gentlemen, costs money. If we want to radically change something we need to buy 5,000 laptops at polling stations, we need to buy scanners, we need to introduce complete IT equipment so we don't have, I didn't bring here today, 34 means, a set of forms that need one election board president to fill out, which are heavy somewhere between 5 or 6 kilograms. If this remains after this interresor working group and if nothing is done in that direction, we will again wait for the election results of 30 days provided that we satisfy this second part of education. And education is not only made up of the Central Election Commission, municipal election committees, but gentlemen, and that is why I call on you, perform and political entities, that is also your obligation, and our obligation, to educate your membership as potential members of the electoral committees so that they can respond to such a complex task. And another task that I mentioned here is the simulation, that is, simplifying the electoral process, and in that sense it is necessary to make normative changes, so what we can do, means in an interresor working group and propose this process that has become obsolete, which is technically not grown to change it in order to have election results as all democratic states within 5 to 10 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u558	Thank you, Mr. Šantić. I am concluding the debate on this item on the agenda and we are now going to declare ourselves, so we are going to vote on the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission for 2014 together with the recommendations contained in it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 14 present, for it was 13, against no one, he was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH for 8, against no one, 1 abstention, from RS 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree, the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's 2014 law, together with the recommendations contained in it, was adopted. We're going to the ninth point, that's Ad.9. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2014, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-37-703/15 of 19.5.2015 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the report at the 13th session held on 10.6.2015. I give the word to Mr Mario Karamatić, appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if he naturally appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I now give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No interest, no reports. I'm closing the debate. 35 We vote on the report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2014. Prepare to vote. You can vote. _________(?) Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u563	I'm going to citiraća the esteemed colleague Babalj from his earlier debate, the D.A. doesn't do his job, period. Before Bogo and before the law, they should all be equal, before Bogo they are, before the law I don't think they are, I don't think they are. Last year was an election, and we had the opportunity to watch a spectacle directed by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary and spectacular arrests, even more spectacular releases of the arrested, and re-incarceration and re-release. It did not know who was drinking, it is well known who paid, paid BiH institutions and paid the peoples of BiH, and they pay them pretty well. We have, there's an ugly example of this year, so it doesn't apply to this paper report. So a man brutally kills two old men, confesses to murder, gets released for lack of evidence. What do you say? That's what the D.A.'s doing. But let's go back to last year which at least was dynamic in the work of both the prosecution and the judiciary, meaning three, we have three official languages in BiH and one prosecutor from a multimillion-dollar affair to hand over the indictment in English. Normally a judge lets a man go, probably a poor man doesn't speak English, so how he'll understand what he wanted to say. It's the work of our prosecution. Furthermore, as far as the prosecution's investigation is concerned, or should be conducted, when I said that not everyone is equal neither before the law nor clearly before the prosecution, I do not understand at any stage, nor whether any further investigation of one of the Federation's top officials, Dominister Joza Leutar, is taking place. What about the investigation into the murder of two Croatian police officers in Central Bosnia? Nobody even mentions it anymore. I have a feeling, I believe that at least a part of my colleagues will agree with me, what we will all agree on, that every crime is a particular war crime and must be prosecuted. So, no dilemma at all. Anyone who committed a war crime has to be responsible for him. But I don't think it's the same treatment as the BiH Prosecutor's Office according to command responsibility. I have a feeling that there are equal before the law, and that others are a little bit more equal, so when you look at the indictments of the BiH Prosecutor's Office concerning high-ranking officers from the past war, you'll see that there are a lot of indictments from one nation, from another too, from very few. The command lines worked in three armies, meaning in the RS Army, the Croatian Defence Council and the BiH Army. I can't be satisfied with the prosecution's work, I'm not happy with the prosecution's work. This is the information we need to get to the bottom of it. I can't accept this after what I just said. So I could elaborate more on this, what's going on and what's going on. While the D.A. is working this way, I just don't want to know about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u564	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is there any more interest in the debate over this agenda item? There isn't. So, I am concluding the debate and we will now vote on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, it was four against nine, the abstention was none. From the Federation of BiH 4 to, 4 against, no one from the RS in favour of, 5 against. So there's no general majority. 38 I find that information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014 has not been received. Now, I ask you to prepare yourself for a statement on the findings of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples. You can vote. So from the 13, for the 12, against the 1, there was no abstention. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u572	Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u573	Proposer, is there a need? Well, the promoter has already explained, I don't think there's any need. If there is, it's no problem. No, thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. 42 We move to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u574	There's no microphone on, and what do we do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u575	Make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u576	No microphone turned on about what?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u577	That's what we're going to get to the bottom of if we're going to write her this letter that he was talking about, that his name is Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, you can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u578	So we have to have some,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u579	Please stop the vote, so you don't. Mr. Tadić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u580	It is not at all questionable, of course, that one of the previous questions is whether we write a letter or not. But in order not to meet again the Assembly to see what we have written and if we agree on what we have written, I think it should somehow be whether, in what direction, to explain the proponent, to get this point the dimension it should have in every serious Parliament. So, to say, people, I suggest it, that and that and that we vote on it and that. What are we going to write in a letter? __________(?) As the gentleman said, [[no microphone turned on]] So what did he say?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u582	The name BiH, and so on, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u583	I know, he said he was unhappy that it went like Bosnia's leadership. I mean, don't do that now, if we've adopted the agenda point, if we're doing it right, 43 if all of this isn't just about saying let's go, find some topic that we don't have the same opinion on, so let's make it look like maybe all the people in this room are going to vote for it. So my policy is the policy of getting out of conflict, not the policy of entering new conflicts and embezzlement, in front of anyone who's watching what we're doing, while we're talking about economic and social problems and other things. Let's put it this way -- that this House of People, respecting the dignity of the Dayton Peace Agreement, constitutional arrangement of institutions, draws attention to all people in this country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our Service for International Relations, which deals with this kind of communication, that where they notice irregularities concerning the identity of the country, its political system and other things, to correct in order to spread the world public, if necessary, especially European, what integrations we are aware of who we are and what we are. If we've already opened that agenda. If we opened it just to shut it down, it's not acceptable to me. I don't think that's serious. So, well said Mr. Genjac, if we're going to recite, we're going to recite somewhere else, if we're going to do politics, let's make it nice. It's not against that, Mr. Karamatić. Why would that bother him? So, let's say he's got a tail and we know what we've been doing. Otherwise, people will mess with us. So as soon as we get out of this room, people will laugh at us, why we adopted this item of the agenda and what we did. So we laugh. And if this discussion and what we're doing today is a contribution at least not to repeat this. I'm happy to take my word again. _____________(?) But make a suggestion, Mr. Tadić. [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I made a suggestion. So if we did this to write a letter to the lady in question, then ask her to respect the identity, constitutional structure, the need of all the people of this country to participate in building that identity, etc. Take into account the fact that the country is called BiH, etc. Where we don't teach her lessons, we just draw attention, because we're going to cooperate a lot, and other things. And that, unfortunately, in our Parliament, this has caused controversy, which has no place. If we've scheduled the agenda. At the same time, in which we will address that the House of Peoples obliges all officials of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly who participate in international correspondence, to draw attention to this correspondence by taking care of it - the correct use of language, names and everything else, that in the future they react before Parliament comes to it. Why would Mr. Karamatić discuss these matters? That's ridiculous. So it took some clerk to contact immediately, one email, a correspondence, fix it in a second and calm Bosnia and Herzegovina, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u585	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Now you've told it nicely, but we haven't written what you said yet. Will we now, based on this stenogram, if Mr Karamatić agrees, turn this into 44 conclusions, or a corresponding letter, as you said? I agree, but let's see Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u586	Here's Mr. Tadić put it very nicely, and I agree with him from point to point, to point. So, I would just ask that we make one conclusion that we are bound by all the services of BiH, means at the state level that they receive mail, that urgently if you notice irregularities, it means whether only Bosnia or only Herzegovina or Herceg Bosnia or the kingdom or bananas or anything, it means that the answers – respected, in your letter the number of them and that, since then and then, you have titled so and so on and so on, this formulation means that Mr Tadić has spoken. And here I'd like to ask the technical services to prepare it for the stenogram. I don't think there's any need for us to go to a match right now, it's all very nicely said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u587	Thank you. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u588	You know, no one's gonna argue that an oversight or a mistake made by one of the international entities in a letter, that it's supposed to react. It's primarily a question of patriotism. And that's not controversial. We, to the soul, may have made one procedural mistake, any point in order to find ourselves on the agenda, must be supplied with a proposal and proper material. We adopted the agenda without material today. I'm afraid if we go into wide-ranging formulations, it'll be subject to a long-term alignment. I ask you, therefore, that the College be tasked with making a letter in the sense of correcting what has happened. It just happened that someone wrote to the authorities of Bosnia, made a mistake. And to be a letter, please, in your letter, you made a mistake concerning the BiH Constitution because in the BiH Constitution, there is a state, is BiH and a point. No, there are BiH authorities, there are no authorities in Bosnia. That's one thing and it's settled. I don't think we're going further. You made a mistake, you called, you addressed BiH authorities, you addressed BiH authorities, you addressed Bosnia authorities, there are BiH authorities. I don't know if, as a House, we warn all institutions of what is their constitutional and legal duty. Please, let's tell someone right now if you notice an error in the Foreign Ministry that someone doesn't know her or I do, they violated the Dayton Agreement, so you have to act. You must react even though the House does not warn you, it is your constitutional and legal obligation. And please, we've placed the agenda point, a letter of correction, and we don't want to stay on it. The letter, you made a mistake, you made an oversight regarding the BiH Constitution. There are no authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I ask you to respect that. I'd hold on to that and that's the solution I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u589	Thank you. Mr. Radmanović, please. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u590	I didn't want to answer at first, when it was this debate, and I have to say I had a lot to say to both of you and the other and the third. I didn't think it was necessary at first to say it so harshly, but I'm glad to see that now those who started it have calmed down. That, I remind you, Mr. Genjac, Mr. Karamatić, took us one 45 minutes, so in the end, we'd all say it was unnecessary. And I think we should simplify. It's a good last proposal, Mr. Genjac. But I think we've already figured that out without this, that you just said that we just figured out what you just said in the end. But there was a new proposal for Mr. Tadić, a supplement that should be considered, so my proposal is slightly broader than what Mr. Genjac said. Let the College prepare for us and not have to be a stenogram of what Mr. Tadić was talking about, but on the background of that stenogram, what he proposes to this House of the College, so that we may conduct the debate. There may also be a closed session and we can define how we will eventually warn, perhaps we should warn people who work in the administration of the Constitution. We sometimes misread him, especially them. But let's finish this first part today, just like we did. So as suggested by Mr Karamatić and as Mr Genjac has now concluded correctly. We've already voted on that. And this second part should be left behind, after the College offers us one opinion based on what Mr. Tadić was talking about. I think that's worth thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u591	Thank you. Mr. Karamatić, have you heard from the pono? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u592	Here, I was prepared, so I didn't know until today that the letter had not gone to the lady, so no materials were prepared before the session. So I was prepared as a conclusion very short. Now, I'm going to offer some formulation, so maybe if there's no further discussion, we can plead that way. So, to send our dear Ingrid in Geneva a letter of content – Dearly esteemed, in his memo, if he has an orderly number, the number of which you have since and since then, on many occasions referred to under quotes "the authorities of Bosnia". This way we report that Bosnia as a state does not exist, and that the official name of our country is Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's quite correct, and also here for one of the next sessions, to prepare something that we could discuss, teaching what counterpart Tadić was saying, because I agree with Mr Genjac that there is no need to warn fellow officials about the adherence to the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement. However, I am saddened by one fact that we had to follow the Constitution of our homeland to lead the debate here for almost an hour on this issue. So that's what it came down to. If I hadn't warned about this in the last session, poor Ingrid would have thought there was a Bosnia today. Actually, she's still thinking today, but here we send her a letter. I'm glad we finally agreed on that. So here is a very short memo, and let's say the College prepares for the address of Mr Tadić, 46 technical services, to prepare a single conclusion that we will give to all state officials who receive the mail, so that they can react in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the positive legal regulations. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u593	Thank you. I'm afraid we're not going to get out of this situation again the way it is, here's a number of suggestions, so maybe this, here's Mr. Genjac came up for a word, but here I'm going to be free to suggest that this House assigns the College of the House of Nations to address this letter to the lady and in the way that Mr. Radmanović suggested, that we in the College come up with something to offer this House on this basis. Because everything else, I'm afraid, will take us, we'll start, we'll start to rip the sentences and we won't get out of this situation. If it's all right with you, if it's not here. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u594	Thank you. Of course we'll start to rip out sentences and marks, of course. It's not the first time, and that's the way it is. And that's why the question is sensitive. We haven't lost 45 minutes on this. We lost 10 minutes. We've lost 10 minutes and 10 minutes of reason because we understand each other. I, therefore, did not say this lady, did not address the BiH state, she addressed the authorities of Bosnia. She hasn't spoken to the state of Bosnia. It may be both linguistic and stylish and any other variant but she is therefore, if we dispute her letter, we can only dispute what she stated in the letter. It's not... the authorities of the state of Bosnia, it's the government, it's not the state of Bosnia, so let's say there's no state of Bosnia. That's why I think it's because, to the College, given the letter and given what the facts are, I'm responding to correcting what is a mistake and nothing more. And you come up with a further discussion about these next perhaps issues which, related to other institutions etc. But I do support the proposal that the College prepares this text of the letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u595	Thank you. Is there more, is it Mr. Radmanović again? Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u596	Here's the last part of the debate, Mr. Genjac shows that for no reason, we lost what was ahead, because now you're back to the beginning... You're trying to justify a lady we haven't even seen, who wrote a letter to faint. And there's Mr. Karamatić quite right and I don't know which Bosnia you're talking about, when you want to discuss it. You're in an anti-constitutional story now. This country is BiH, it says in the BiH Constitution, and do not explain to us any other territory the lady meant. We tried to bring it down nicely, and I think we've come to an end. And now you've brought us back to the beginning. So, I think we've voted already, what Mr. Karamatić suggested. And Mr. Genjac, if you want to talk about the past, we can talk about the past. And then we can talk about Bosnia, but you're not a competent talker for that. But if 47 we're talking about today, and we're talking, then this is BiH, and I don't think there was any need to bring us back to the beginning at all, and it's completely from the wrong angle. Are you defending this lady? Or are you saying she's right? Here I say he's wrong. So she miswritten and misrepresented the authorities in this country. And she needs to be warned about both her and everyone else. I think we've figured it out, and I don't know what's going on right now. If you want to have a discussion, when she was Bosnia and when she was called that, I'm ready for it. But I don't think you're ready and this House shouldn't be burdened with it. And please, let's get this over with. We had two good suggestions, and now we're back to square one. So let's do it again. One good suggestion is what Mr. Karamatić put out, which I thought we had most. The second good proposal is that you agree with it, that the College prepares us an addendum to this conclusion and that we are particularly discussing it. And now you've said it again, it's not worth any of it, that lady is right to write it and address Bosnia. E is wrong that lady and no lady or gentleman from the world who speaks to the citizens of this country like that. And we need to warn them, including those sitting in this room, who think she's right. And we have to warn them that it isn't. Whoever doesn't think we're right to say so takes the Constitution and reads and sees everything there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u597	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. We have Mr. Genjac again, so we have Mr. Tadić, although the business gentleman Genjac has already discussed it, but come on, say, now you'd have the right to debate and not more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u598	I really don't understand you absolutely. Where you've been for the past five minutes and what you've been listening to, believe me. So, at no point did I talk about what you're saying. We totally don't understand each other. So, I was talking about not having to stand in our answer in Bosnia's country, because the lady didn't even say the state of Bosnia, but said the authorities of Bosnia. That's all I said. I don't absolutely justify it, but I'm stating the facts, just facts. I absolutely don't, where you saw an excuse, it's really science fiction. So, I absolutely don't, I repeat, but I want to start with the facts. And just, exactly, about who's competent to talk about the past, about BiH, so I think you're very competent, unlike you, I think you're very competent. So, if I'm competent, we'll probably see in some debate. So, as far as that goes, I ask you to take what I say rightly and truly. Please don't impute unspoken, it's not like you. From what you've done so far, it's not like you. So since it is stated that we will focus on facts and that we will correct them, we have today adopted the point of responding to the mistakes that are in the letter of creation. And I'm just saying, let's do it, correct the mistakes that were made in the letter and let the College make that letter and solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u599	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. 48 Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u600	Here you see, that's the situation you're in. So it's easy for someone on the side to challenge here some kind of incident that we're discussing later on for days, months, hours, years and all that other stuff. That's right, this isn't the only example. We have serious political, diplomatic actions now that are also bringing unrest here to us, but we daren't discuss them at all. We don't have the courage to open up some of the questions the world is talking about right now, and they're about us, so that's how we preserve peace and political stability. And this isn't a foreign problem. Here, you are Mr. Radmanović, chairman of the SNSD Executive Board, we recently received a letter from Snježana Railić, who is a member of your Executive Board, if I am not mistaken of the General Board, she has sent a letter to all the authorities, and says BiH Parliament Speaker Šefik Džaferović. So here's the one general unknown address they're talking to. As we have a Parliamentary Assembly which is a single body, which only has two, let's say, two different bodies, two different homes. So there's a little bit of work going on, and there's above all the blame on these professional services. So this is not a question that we entertain neither the international public nor anything else, so protocol, international relations, all those who are the first line is whether, representations would have to act more actively. It's not rude if someone, I don't know, your name is Stojan Stojanović, he tells you Petar Petrović, so it's not rude to correct it and say, I'm sorry, I'm not Petar Petrović, I'm Stojan Stojanović. So it's not rude. In that sense, there's no need for anyone to get angry if someone made a mistake in their name. What's the problem? The problem is if it makes a policy, like we're making here today. So, if there is Bosnia, is there no Bosnia, whether there is any Herzegovina, as it is called, what is left, whether it is Herceg-Bosnia, what is the second proposal, etc. So, ravine condition. And we approach this vulnerable state in an ugly way, by patterns that are 25 years old, which now seem ridiculous here, and hundreds of thousands of people have lost their heads because of these patterns. And now we're playing with it, like, we've got some topic, so that's how we're gonna end the session. It's not good, people. That's why I'm here today, and I apologize to Mr. Nović after all if he felt something called in what I was saying today about the Law of residence and residence, etc. So, some big topics, you have to treat them like bombs. So, of course they're big topics. If anything hurts, it should be treated with caution, if not with respect. So that's our role as the House of Peoples. So I suggest, here we have consulted in the College, we ourselves, if you allow it to take the obligation to put this letter together and to, of course, inform you of its contents, it will probably be in the spirit of these issues and these issues, as discussed today. Well, if that's acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u601	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. We still have the application of Mr Karamatić and Mr Radmanović. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u602	I support the College's letter, but I have something else to react to. Mr Genjac, my esteemed colleague whom I greatly appreciate is me at the beginning of this debate, when I mentioned one of the best Bosnian-Herzegovic poets here from Tešnja, warned that there is still a place where serious debates are being held, and that it is not the home of the people where songs and poetry will be mentioned and sang. And I respected his criticism. However, as a BiH citizen, I find it shocking that after that, you, a lady out of Geneva, with Swiss citizenship, who without any doubt violates the BiH Constitution, justify some language or, you said that. So maybe it's a language variant, it's not her, it's not clear to me, is it supposed to be said to the authorities of the state of Bosnia, so that only then do we react? So, my colleague, I'm sorry, but you're jumping into your own mouth. You can't accuse me of one thing, and after that, you can justify that lady, with it being a style expression. So if it's a violation of the Constitution, it's a violation of the Constitution. If you've rightly warned me, I don't know where you're coming from to justify her with what you warned me about, with a style of saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u603	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Radmanović, he's signed up one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u604	.... Mr. Tadić, he is not Railić member of the SNSD Executive Board, and that is not the way it should be mentioned here. I give up, according to the Rules of Procedure, we're entitled to two replicas, we've gone beyond all threes, and I'm giving up what I had last. I suggest you figure that out the way you started.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-23-0.u605	Thank you very much. I think what's right from all these discussions that came up, that's what Mr. Tadić just said, if you trust the College, to prepare this letter that you will, of course, be familiar with its contents. I think that's quite correct and I'm asking you to make that clear, here. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 11 present, 10 were for, 1 versus, no one was abstention. From the Federation of BiH 6 to, 1 against, from RS 4 to, none against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So after making up this letter and referring, you will certainly be familiar with the content. So here's what we'd like to conclude today's session, with that, let me tell you, is that the possible term for holding the next session is probably 10.07. So here it is, but you'll definitely be written about it in writing on time. Thank you very much. Session completed at 14:38 p.m.
