ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6941	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament/representatives, I am opening the 14th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, is here chair of the Council of Ministers, I welcome him, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. Representatives of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH whose Report and Information are on the agenda of today's session are also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Miroslav Milovanović and the delay was announced by MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. According to the current state of the service in the O.R., 38 MPs are present. We have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. The meetings of the following committees were held in preparation for this session: the Constitutional Commission, the Finance and Budget Commission, the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following is added to the agenda: point 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on arrangements for the implementation of the Union financial assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II), No: 01,02-05-2-842/15, of 29.06.2015. It was removed from the previous agenda: Point 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-8/15, of 29.05.2015, with the correction of the technical error in the Bill Proposal, No: 01-02-1-8/15, since 01.06.2015. (first reading), at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget, which requested an extension of the deadline for the delivery of Opinions on the principles of the Proposal for a Law. The college approved an extension of 30 days. The Commission adopted the following conclusions: 1. The Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives postpones its statement on the Bill's proposal to supplement the Law on Payments and Refunds in 2 BiH institutions and asks the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to deliver a Opinion on the Bill's proposal within 15 days. 2. The Finance and Budget Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly shall ask the BiH Council of Ministers, within 15 days, to draw up and provide information on the implementation of the conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives at the 6th session, held on 11/02 2015, which reads: – The BiH Council of Ministers shall be obliged to prepare and refer to the procedure for amending the entire legislation relating to the obligations and rights of appointed and elected persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, including the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, the Law on conflict of interest, and the sublegal acts arising from them – the rules on the work of administrative and supervisory committees, the rules on fees for work in interresor working groups, commissions, working bodies, procurement and use of official cars. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. A representative named Denis Bećirović spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6942	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Given that the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Ivanic, without the consent and without the authority of the BiH presidency has decided to write his own-initiative letters to the United Nations, given that the president of Republika Srpska's entity, Mr Milorad Dodik, does the same, given that the British initiative on the resolution on genocide in Srebrenica is written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Serbia, and we have witnessed that on the other hand in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have silence about this initiative, I propose that today's agenda of the United Kingdom, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the new agenda item bearing the following term: – The conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the initiative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to adopt a resolution on the generation in silver. As a promoter of this point, I am also obliged to provide the relevant material, so I have also prepared a proposal for the conclusions that I deliver in writing. In conclusion, I propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly show respect and understanding for the initiatives and efforts of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to adopt a resolution on the genocide of the Bosniak population in Srebrenica and to spread the truth about this genocide in line with the International Court of Justice's ruling as the highest legal body of the United Nations. I then propose, in the framework of the conclusions, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives invites all UN members to, in order to prevent the recurrence of genocide in the future, spread the truth about the Srebrenica genocide during which more than 8,000 boys and men were killed in July 1995. I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives conclude that it believes that the recognition of genocide in Srebrenica, as the only genocide that occurred in Europe after World War II, is the basis for reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the regional agenda. In this context, the United Kingdom's and Northern Ireland's initiative is an important contribution to building lasting peace and reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3 Since three minutes, as far as I'm concerned, I am running out of time to complete this agenda and deliver all the conclusions in writing. And I propose today, since I am convinced that these conclusions will have a general majority here in Parliament, that all those who support these conclusions, and possibly new ones that are proposed, that we 25, 26, 28 MPs today will sign behind these conclusions and that as MPs, as most of the generals in this House, we now send it to the United Nations, to the UN Secretary-General, to the Council of Europe, to the embassies, to the High Representative, etc. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6943	Thank you very much. Get us the material. Next word came from Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6944	Gentlemen chairman. So, I'll do it again, maybe this is the third time, I suggest, Article 71(1). Rules of Procedure and propose to include, as the first item of the agenda, the Council of Ministers' Report on the Reform Agenda and the Action Plan, where we are, whether it is working material or harmonised material. When it will be a fundamental point or debate in this House instead of what counterpart Bećirović is talking about in full contradiction. I don't think there are any more important points, what we're doing so far I'm afraid this year from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's success doesn't... So... the words of President Zvizdić were said to be passed in 65 laws this year. We are entering in July of the month, whether a law was passed in a new council, it is still about amendments to the law of the old Council of Ministers, it is still about the marginal points of the agenda from the point of view of the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's much better to make a cut and pause, to have one quality point of the agenda, to see where they're getting along, to disagree and move on, than to pretend to be working. And I think we don't need two-session timing during the month for expenses for the public, all this agenda of both sessions we can end in one or two days and not make double expenses. As for the proposal of counterpart Bećirović, who is..., he objectes to Mladen Ivanić, the chairman of the presidency, which sent his position and opinion on the resolution, and today asks him to do the same. I must say that good neighbourly relations should not be violated and that it is a shame that in... a visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina was not Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić. If by any chance he had announced his visit to Turkey's president, I am convinced Bakir Izetbegović would not have consulted Mladen Ivanić. It's simply a situation in which this country is located. That's not good and let's go back to what it is. Let's get out of the resolution and resolution to the resolutions, that's good for everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, respecting all the victims. I'm afraid it's too much... I'm afraid we don't overheat the bowl, when the landlady cooks milk and she sees that it's not going to increase the temperature, it's going to add water, because she's gone and she's going and she's going to cook milk. I fear such discussions and such sessions of Parliament will not contribute to any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I would pray that for the third time I propose this, nothing will happen if we take a five-day break and give the Council of Ministers a chance to prepare, provide quality materials and see where these differences are, that as MPs we may help things get closer. And this way we don't know, we're reading from the media. We've heard it's not about the adopted reform agenda, it's about the work material. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6945	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6946	Here, so I suggest one single item of the agenda and let's do, so cut, break, and for these points standing here, you believe we won't be late because they're... work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6947	Thank you. Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6948	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. As with my predecessors, I will call for point 71(1) and propose the introduction of a new agenda item: – Information on the membership of representatives and delegates in committees, working groups, delegations and other bodies established by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or its homes. For what? We are witnessing that the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. both homes, has established a large number of how permanent, joint, provisional, ad hoc commissions, working groups, delegations and similar bodies have been established since the constitution of this House, and so have the proposals of members of these bodies, or have not always been delivered in written form, but have been read at meetings just before the vote, and given the fact that new commissions will be established during the remainder of the term of office, it would be useful to have a detailed overview of the membership of the committees per individual. In line with this, I primarily think of those representatives who have a very large number of committees, and regardless of their intellectual abilities, we are aware that most cannot be adequately prepared and worsened, so the meetings of certain committees are often delayed due to the lack of quorum. And with this in mind as Mr Špirić says, that we would not act to work, yes, I would suggest an immediate conclusion that reads: – Ask the College of the House of Representatives to deliver, in cooperation with the College of the Peoples, all MPs and delegates, information on the membership of each representative and delegate in all committees, permanent, joint, temporary, ad hoc, working groups, delegations and other bodies established by the Parliamentary Assembly, or its homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6949	Thank you. Just give us those materials, please. Mr. Staša Košarac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6950	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of other institutions. 5 I would like to point out that we, as a Club of Members of the SNSD, have, on paragraphs 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, as well as on today's 14th, used the Rules of Procedure, Article 71 and the Emergency, 1st and 3rd emergency session of the House of Representatives, proposed the agenda point, that is – the resolution of Šefik Džaferović. We, today, at this 14th session, are asking for this item of the agenda to be found and formulated as in the proposal submitted to all MPs, which is – a decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the post of the chairman of the House of Representatives, i.e. a member of the Kolegijum. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come forward with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6951	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Mešić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6952	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break, and I'll explain the reasons later.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6953	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. In order to prepare a proposal for new agenda points in writing, which all MPs are due to receive, I am giving a 15-minute break and thus the SDP's request for a 15-minute break is also in line. Deliver the materials, share the materials to the representatives in 15 minutes, it is written material related to Mr Bećirović's proposal and the written material of Mr Špirić. And there's no debate, after 15 minutes we're going to vote. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the intermissions are over. I don't think there's a need for SDP to ask, the debate is closed, we're moving to a plea. Are you looking for a word, and you asked for a break, Mr. Mešić? You're not looking, no. /Shortly interrupted video/?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6956	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6957	At the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote on the draft agenda point proposed by Mr Špirić. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, at the request of the SDA Club again, the vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6960	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6961	Please give me a five-minute break to get the service to check out what's going on with these devices here. Check it out. I ask the MPs to take their seats, we proceed with the work. So we got a notice from the service that this chair that gives, this device in the second row that gives signals to vote for, no, no, it's being counted, because it's Mr. Novaković's chair sitting up there 7 in that seat upstairs and this is his, therefore, vote. Uh, when he votes, he gets kicked out of this device right here. And it's okay to vote, nothing, it's okay, it's okay. Please vote on the proposal to include the agenda point proposed by Nikola Špirić. We're going back to work. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 13 against, 8 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from the Federation of BiH entity. We'll get along later. We're moving on to the draft agenda table proposed by Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 26 votes for, 4 against, 5 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. This is going to be the agenda point. I suggest that it be the final item of today's session, if you don't mind. And we have a proposal for another Mr. Staša Košarac to include the agenda item, for the replacement of the chairman's House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Six for, 28 against, three abstentions. I find this proposal has not been supported by the House of Representatives. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of today's session is as follows: 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act in BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-3/15, since 26.02.2015. (law in second reading); 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on the text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-135/14, of 15/09/2014).; 5. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the SBB Club MPs, on the report on the 2014 report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to, within 30 days, give precise answers to all remarks by the Director of the Energy Community Secretariat. Janez Kopač, 8 which were presented on the subject "The State of Integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the European Union in the field of energy", was held in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which concerns the lack of gas law, lack of energy strategy and other commitments made towards the Energy Community's views." 6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for Parliament's recommendation to Jasmin Emrić, on the debate on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly points out the importance and urgency of the need for the Government and Parliament of the Federation of BiH to carry out the selection procedure of members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, which expired the mandate, and the nomination of delivery to the BiH Council of Ministers for appointment in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." 7. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014, issue: 01,02-28-586/15, of 20.04.2015; 8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović to discuss the 2014 report on the protection of personal data in BiH, the material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, which reads: "It is suggested to the BiH Federation Parliament to review once more the Agency's objections given to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Parent Books (the Official Journal of the Federation of BiH), number 22/14, i.e. the possibility to be incorporated." 9. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on Discrimination in BiH for 2014, issue: 01.02-12-729/15, of 22.05.2015; 10. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica – Proposers: MEPs Denis Bećirović, Mirsad Mešić and Zaim Backović, issue: 01-02-2-710/15, since 19.05.2015; 11. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's Denis Bećirović's initiative, submitted at the 11th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13.05.2015, which reads: "Article 8. I present the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives with a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015," Act No: 01-50-1-682/15, of 13.05.2015; 12. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2014, material of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, issue: 01,02- 28-746/15, of 26.05.2015; 13. Information from the National Regulatory Agency for the Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH on the security of supply of spent fuel and the safety of radioactive waste management in the Shop, Act No 01,02-50-19-577-6/15, of 21.05.2015; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Financing Treaty concluded between the European Investment Bank, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation 9 of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 15.07.2018, in Sarajevo and 18.08.2008 in Luxembourg and subsequent amendment to the contract (the Funding Treaty) for the project – the Water and sewerage in the Federation of BiH (Fi 24.569), issue: 01.02-05-2-793/15, since 11.06.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (which relates to the loan contract for the Project Central Heating Prijedor) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-822/15, dated 18.06.2015. 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on arrangements for the implementation of the Union's financial assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II), No: 01.02-05-2-842/15, of 29.06.2015; 17. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Diana Zelenika to request information on the membership of representatives and delegates in committees, working groups, delegations and other bodies established by the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. its homes, act No 01-50-1-850/15, of 30.06.2015. That would be the conclusion that should be adopted by the House of Representatives, and that is the point of the agenda that I understand, Mrs. Zelenika. Do you agree? Thank you very much. We're going to the first item of the agenda, so that's Ad. 1. Minutes from the 13th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6965	Thank you. In accordance with Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that I am not satisfied with the response to the parliamentary question that you have just mentioned, and this way I would like to announce an additional parliamentary question to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. I'm also taking the opportunity to suggest a violation of Article 175(2). The Rules of Procedure, because I did not get an answer to three parliamentary questions that I asked more than 30 days ago, which covers this member of the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes that deadline for the delivery of answers, and I ask the College to urinate the delivery of answers to the same, two of the Foreign Ministry and one of the BiH Ministry of Justice. I would also ask that this commercial objection be entered in the minutes in accordance with Article 92(2). Rules of Procedure. And I haven't really received a single answer within the prescribed deadline, and I am really asking that the College more seriously address this issue when the Council of Ministers has no session material, that at least respect these 30-day deadlines for delivering answers to parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6966	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone in this room. I asked the question about General Đukić's escape from the sentence – how was that possible? I have asked the BiH judicial and prosecutorial institutions and I have not received the answers requested from all these institutions. And I ask that this way be uried with these institutions of the remaining of, who did not send me an answer, to get that answer so that I could comment on the quality of those answers. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6968	Thank you very much. Mr. Fehim Škaljić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6969	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am pleased that you are today in the capacity appropriate to this House. He'd like to draw attention if I asked a question on May 13th for the... coordination mechanism. I don't have any, therefore, information. The agreement was to deliver it in writing at the session, so please, given the currentity of the issue, we have an information coordination mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6970	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6971	More than the Rules of Procedure require, so more than 30 days ago I asked a question concerning information on the rolling stock of all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a concrete question – what is available, who, both under what circumstances and on what documents, i.e. documents used by those vehicles? I didn't get an answer from any of the institutions, and the civil servants and others who, in my opinion, use these cars without any right continue to appear neatly, wave from the car in the morning when they go to work, weekends with families on trips, and in those cars still, these cars are still parked in front of residential buildings, in which are, is, like, children's seats, etc. I ask you to force this question to answer the question of delivery so that, based on it, you can suggest concrete activities on how to resolve this will.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6972	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the last session, I asked the oral question of the minister of civil affairs who was absent at the session, following his business obligations. I allow myself to be wrong or probably a technical error, I did not get an answer to that question, which concerns the introduction of a basic identification number, i.e. it was a request from the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Civil Affairs, that as part of ours, I would not say preparatory actions, but rather the initial steps towards meeting the conditions of obtaining EU candidate status. When the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, will approach the creation of a Law on Personal Identification 12, which is actually a basic prerequisite for the start of negotiations, because we know that Bosnia and Herzegovina with a unique home number that has 13 digits cannot negotiate with the EU and exchange data, and from the segment of the reduction, i.e. the fight against corruption of personality protection, i.e. personal data and the active monitoring of taxes and incomes of each person, every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the inability to cover up some, of any kind of income. I think this law is significant, Croatia has worked on it for a very long time. And I ask, therefore, the Ministry of Civil Affairs that, if that question is delivered, I believe that it is, that at the next, until the next session in writing, to deliver it to me, if you may. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6974	Thank you very much. The word has Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My comment would refer to the issue of 29 April 2015, which was asked to the High Representative. Therefore, pursuant to Article 174(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of this Parliamentary Assembly, and on Article 174, paragraph 2, we have asked a question about gender equality, if anyone here remembers this issue. So 14 governments were appointed, of 14 governments 12 were then formed, today, whether, 13, the very presence of female in governments was 14.73%. So, if we have the right to appoint a High Representative on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we expect legal deadlines and answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6976	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6977	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers. I have received a reply from the Ministry of Security and I am generally satisfied with the response, however I am not satisfied with the situation, since in the assessment of the Ministry of Security it is stated that detention at the Immigration Centre cannot be considered as a measure of detention contrary to the European Convention, but on that path. How unofficially I find out this subject is in the resolution phase and it is expected that in the next two, three months, this will still be resolved and that would actually put an end to this case. I also want to say on this occasion about my parliamentary issue at the last session, I am warning of a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I did not get an answer today, and it is actually a matter referred to by the Council of Ministers and Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and regarding the protected corruption reporter Irina Lovrić. I ask you to provide me with an answer in time to that agent's question so that we could possibly take it further... Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6978	Thank you. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6979	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome all those present. Since at last session, therefore, 13, despite some and respected business procedures, I have been denied, for some reasons, the possibility of an oral question being denied, I will repeat. It is, that question – Why did the president, briefly, president of the Independent Committee, in accordance with Article 7 paragraph 1 e) of the Act on Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not until the end of the first half of 2015 submit the Work Report for 2014? I asked for this question and got a written answer and that's the only fact that I can be satisfied with. As for the content of what and how it is difficult for me to think that anyone might be satisfied, because it confirms what was delivered to me, first, that there is no valid justification for the report of the Independent Committee, because not only was it not on time, I later found out, but neither has it been delivered to this day, but they were not able to clearly agree on them nine members either, or what they were doing, or how to make them. In any case, it may be the committee, but the independent is certainly not and I am sorry that today is not included in the agenda my initiative to discuss, i.e. to form an ad hoc commission that would consider the work. Secondly, here is what I learned from this unadopted report, and I am not satisfied with it because it is superficial, and of course with the records, that the irreparable division and unconstitutional political interests within the Committee, which means that the problem, for the problem, which was opened by Minister Mektić these days, is a clear coincidence... is not only a change of president but also a review of the work and behaviour of the entire committee. The third, which a man cannot be satisfied with, is the fact that despite his business obligation, a session should be held by law at least once a month and not held once in two months. So in 15 months since the election was held, except for the constitutional session, a total of seven sessions, an emergency that was urgently debated in June about February's events. And finally receiving that, therefore, nothing is answered to me, and there are many objections, the receipts of members of this Commission by which one commission turns out to cost the citizens about 23 thousand, one session, excuse me. So I'm not happy, they didn't come in, and the report itself, the draft that was delivered to me, is mostly about what they didn't agree with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6980	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6981	My colleagues and colleagues and all the others present, I wish you a good day and a successful day's work. 14 I have received an answer to my representative's question to the Council of Ministers. Although the answer I received was from the Statistics Agency and it contains a number of facts relating to the population census situation that I knew mostly from the media. Personally, I would be more pleased with this response if he had been a little late and waited for a session of the Central List Bureau to be held until yesterday to know whether the Single Programme was possibly revised at that session and whether the final verification of the census results would follow. So, here, this way I'd like to ask the Statistics Agency, the State, to supplement my answer with this fact whether the Single Programme's session of the Central List Bureau has been revised as it has passed, has it been adopted and what is the fate of this Single Program and otherwise the results of the list? Otherwise, I would be more partially satisfied, i.e. in part, if the Federal Bureau of Statistics, which normally has no problems with the Unique Programme, would be more satisfied in its estimates that will be dated today on 30.06.2015, statisticalally include these results of the list based on the Single Programme already recorded, instead of its previous estimates which are sometimes significantly different from those results of the list, because among other things, such data are dated 30.06.2015 and one of the criteria that are relevant for the distribution of public revenues for 2016. Well, if this suggestion from these benches could get to the Federal Bureau of Statistics, I would really be pleased with the effect of my question and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6982	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Rančić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6983	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, the media. I received the answer and am in principle satisfied with the answer, in technical terms of the effort and everything the minister said at the session itself, but I am not satisfied with the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina that stems from this response to the protection of milk production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, both the possible subsidisation of imported milk and the potentially excessive imports of milk from the EU to Bosnia and Herzegovina is such that we have agreements that need serious damage in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards milk producers, and only then should they be organised in such a way that more than half of them, in the way of the dairy producer, should go towards the competent institutions and seek protection. So our position is such that we need some major damage, so we're only going to protect our producers. The same thing is, therefore, related to subsidies, the measure we apply according to the regulations is 30 KM per litre and 10% per invoiced value of goods. And you can kind of come up with that amount. However, I'm not sure that's crucial, because if the subsidy in the country of production is greater than this amount paid here, then we have no fundamental protection of our domestic production again. I look forward to these activities that have been undertaken in the last few days, if Bog wants them to come out, is it on high and that they are perfected in a way and I hope that we will soon get these three laws that are written in the media, and here is the answer. I hope that as soon as possible we will have them in the process, vote and that there will be an opportunity for our people to export milk to the EU. Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6984	Thank you. Anyone else want to comment? If no one ever answers my word again, I'll conclude this item on the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović (Law in Second Reading) The House College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH in a second reading. You got the report. We are left to plead in the second round of voting. There's no discussion here. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses on the alignment of the text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6996	Very briefly, given that a lot has been heard about this issue, and this activity on the Trade Mountain.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6997	That's the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6998	This is the next point, so I would have additional questions about it, and around this point I would just say that the Joint Defence Commission has already adopted this Report and referred this opinion to the House of Representatives. I'm designated rapporteur, so this report is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u6999	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk about the report? Does anyone want to talk about the report? I'm closing the debate. Please, we're moving to the 13th item of the agenda, Ad. 13. Information from the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH on the security of supply of spent fuel and the safety of radioactive waste management in the Shop Gore The National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH delivered a report on the extraordinary measures of radioactivity in the territory of Novi Grad, asking for additional time to make up information on the safety and management of spent fuel and the security of the disposal of radioactive waste in the Shop. This act has been forwarded to all MPs as well as to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. The Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH provided information on the security of spent fuel and safety to the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, which is in line with the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economic Relations and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and in 1706 2015, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations provided an update of the information. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH delivered its Information Opinion on 23.06.2015. The Commission took note of the information and unanimously adopted the following conclusions: 1.a) In order to prevent possible complications at the international level necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina to immediately approach the ratification of the SEA Protocol with the ESPO Convention, and to end the process following the accelerated procedure, 19 b) The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH is in charge of this activity; 2.a) It is necessary to establish a working group to monitor the situation and activities related to the possible construction of nuclear waste disposal at the location of the Trade Mountain, the Municipality of Dvor, b) The members of the Working Group should be representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH, the relevant entity ministries and local communities, c) The chairman of the Working Group should be a focal, a key person from the EU Group to the 3rd. A letter should be sent to the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for the establishment of an interstate monitoring committee and activities related to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump at the location of Trgovina Gora, Municipality of Dvor. I'm opening a debate. Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7001	I thank the chairman. Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and all present. I must say at first that I do not agree with the promoter on the name Information, because the name Information on the security of the supply of spent fuel and the safety of the disposal of radioactive waste in the Shop Mountain, the Municipality of Dvor, the Republic of Croatia, is wrongly set. This is the wrong title, because it can be interpreted twice, as though it prejudges that radioactive waste has already been taken care of in the Trade Mountain, and that you present the Information versus such facts, which is wrong. I remind you that I have proposed, and I adopted the House of Representatives at the 11th session Conclusion, which is very precise for information on the ongoing current procedure, led by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I would like to be precise – it is my duty that the Council of Ministers of BiH prepare and deliver the information on the procedure for the evaluation and approval of the location of the Centre for the Accommodation of Radioactive Waste Management of the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia for the first next session of the House of Representatives. This is a precise formulation in accordance with the current procedure to be conducted. And I think we're already late for this procedure, and I'm going to say something about it later. In the introduction, you cited the Agency's competences and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of the Joint Convention on the Security of Fuel Management and Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. And then you point out, in Article 13 of the Convention, that, among other things, to ensure that a proposed plant for the disposal of radioactive waste is set up and implemented procedures for the consultation of contracting parties near such a facility, which may be affected by the plant and delivered, if requested, basic information on the facility, so that they can assess the likely impact of the security that the plant could have on their territory of 20. Why didn't you ask for official information on the location process through the Foreign Ministry or in other official way appropriate communication between the two countries? Because we have not received full information from the Council of Ministers, we cannot have all the information from the competent authorities and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina whether and what they have done in this process, but the acts copied can show that these activities are not being followed chronologically. I wonder if, in any way, in accordance with its competences, the Agency has directly requested or indirectly presented to other bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that information on the procedure for determining the trade up as a location for the disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste is sought from the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and is the Republic of Croatia officially aware that the proposed location is not acceptable to local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In the Information you list the presentation of the Republic of Croatia in Vienna where the representatives of your Agency were. And I am interested in how the Agency reacted during the presentation, whether you met the states of the Joint Convention that for citizens and local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the location of the Shop Mountain is not acceptable. You further state that you have come to the first information on the planned location for the disposal of radioactive waste through the International Atomic Energy Agency Security Department. I'm really worried about this, because I don't know if you've been following the process of determining the location for the disposal of radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia in the last 15 years, and this process has been going on since 1988. And you're stating that you're the first information you've received from the Secretariat of the International Atomic Energy Agency. And whether you know the documents from local communities, the municipalities of Buzim, Novi Grad, the resolutions that the municipal councils of these municipalities brought in 2001, 2003, 2007 and a series of activities that the local communities were doing to prevent the accommodation of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre in the Trade Mountain or a micro location that is close to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. You are further saying that the fact that radioactive waste and nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plant are planned to be delayed at the disputed location is alarming, as this kind of hazardous waste will not be broken down for thousands of years. Well, this isn't worrying, this is, uh, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, this is inadmissible. It is unacceptable because of municipalities in the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are based on a clean, healthy environment in the future. The fact that the Una River is a national nature park is forgotten. That in the lower flow, the Una River on the Croatian side was declared a regional park. Which means that it undoubtedly has a negative impact on the perspective development of the municipalities of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina. The municipalities of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina said very clearly and transparently not radioactive waste in their vicinity. For more than 15 years, this has been happening over and over again. The most strongly voiced are the views that finally the institutions and authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing something about this process. Unfortunately, the concrete reactions, as far as I can see and read from this information, are gone. I ask the question – is it logical, does it make sense to place nuclear waste from Krsko nuclear power plant in the courtyard of local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Location Trska gora, the location of Cerkezovac are closest to the towns of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only 4 km from the town centre of Novi Grad. It is inadmissible that, so I may say freely, in a very mild way, the proceedings so far are tolerated. I can list a series of documents here, because I've been following this activity by a case since 2000, but time doesn't allow me because I have a proposal for conclusions. I would therefore like to say that in this section, this Information should state which norms from the ESPO Convention and which norms from the Archus Convention, and which norms should and could be reacted to protect the interest of local communities and Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. 21 to protect the health and life of citizens in these areas? You did not specify this, although you state all the international instruments that could have been used. You continue to conclude, when taking into account the provisions of these international instruments to the competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, above all, experts in the field of radiation and nuclear security and environmental protection, it must be possible to take part in consultations with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Who needs to be made possible? Who was supposed to make this happen? How was it supposed to work? I think it's supposed to be in this information. That's what I was looking for. This is what is concrete about the current situation and the procedure being conducted in the Republic of Croatia. If you know the answers to these questions I would ask you to share it with this House to see who is responsible for the inaction or for doing what should have been done more concretely and far more responsibly to protect the interest of local communities. You also say it is not difficult to assume that local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina will oppose the disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste. I've already said, there are official resolution documents that local communities have brought. The latest request of 8 municipalities is addressed to all institutions and bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we ask that it be acted upon by these requirements by local communities, i.e. that their position is respected, assessed and delivered in an appropriate manner to the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia. You're suggesting that the agency is also against the dump. Congratulations. But unfortunately you haven't confirmed anything, because I don't see that you've listed one particular activity that the proposed location is challenging. We now need urgent and concrete reactions from the competent authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with international conventions to challenge the accommodation of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre at the Cerkezovac Military Storage Centre or other micro-location in the area. We do not need attitudes but a professional and legally justified reaction. That's what we need now, that's what we're looking for, that's what citizens of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina are looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7002	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7003	You have also stated in your final part of this information that your proposal is that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the form of this kind of decision-making expression towards the Republic of Croatia is the strongest opposition to the location... in the Shop Gora in the Municipality of Dvor or at any other location near the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. But you didn't specify how. So we need to study how we will use international instruments
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7004	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7005	so we can react. I have to, I suggest the conclusions I delivered in writing. If I need to read them, it's two conclusions, every conclusion has...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7006	Let me see, you delivered, thank you very much. Time's up, we really can't tolerate it anymore. Replica, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7007	I gave up the discussion first. My colleague Emrić has prepared himself thoroughly and I don't think there's any need for us to repeat things. What I agree with him is that the title of the information is misspelled and that he actually prejudges that what we're here for is going to happen with the concession we're against. But what I disagree with him is his mild finding that he's surprised with some of the formulations in this information. I think it's too mild, I'm shocked, especially part of the text where it says that it's not right for a disposal of such dangerous waste to put the population at risk. I mean, what kind of formulation is this? I mean, isn't it okay? Especially in the follow-up where he says – given that the population does not have any benefits. What, it'd be okay if the population had benefits to deliver nuclear waste to us, but that something, who lives, pays, right? I'm really shocked with this. He then says that the population around the Shop Mountain, both in the Republic of Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is completely unconventional to live near such dangerous waste. It's just a strong argument. Look, I'm not used to it. There's no way there's nuclear waste on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dot. No, we have the reasons why the population is unaccustomed, because they don't have the benefit of it. And a particularly catastrophic sentence that, even giving us an accurate self would never put it into its report would be a shame, where it says that as a competent authority, the Agency that informs us, which should have been the first to be informed, came up with information through means of information. I am in control because this is Parliament to comment on this freely. So, what should be the conclusion, in front of the Agency, that we thank the media for doing the Agency's work. And will he then put down the next conclusion – part of the funds that we receive from the budget we pass to the media to continue doing our work. Listen, people found out from the media, I don't really understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7008	Okay, thank you. Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7009	I will, of course, briefly not want to challenge what my colleagues have said so far about the very way of expressing it in this Information, really should be seen to be as, uh, as possible, and finally here are the colleagues who have taken a very good picture of the situation. However, we have talked about the state itself several times and on several occasions here at the House of Representatives and at the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, we have proposed conclusions which I think are very acceptable for the simple reason that they clearly and unequivocally define which institutions are responsible for which part of the job. So I would especially like to point out that these conclusions are something that, in my opinion, is absolutely acceptable, with the fact that one of these conclusions could be added to one obligation that would not be general in terms of how my colleague Emrić suggested, which is to inform the House of Representatives in due time. I'd be obliged by the Council of Ministers that he has to submit information on these activities at all times. The question arises whether it will be one way or another in time, so that there will be no dilemma when and in what way the House of Representatives should be informed. So, very briefly, I think that there is enough in this agency, and indeed those people who came to us on behalf of the Agency to present this problem are obviously completely unequivocally referred to this problem, at least according to what I could hear on these two ears or ears, so that I believe that those competent state institutions who, according to the Joint Defence and Security Commission, will do their job in order to have an active position. Everything else would be practical, here's to say something that will not be a practical realization of Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations, and I believe that every resident in Bosnia and Herzegovina will not support that any kind of activity is carried out on any part directly along the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7010	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7011	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know what, there's not much being said here right now, so here's not gonna be me taking the time, but I totally agree with everything that's been said here. However, I might just be talking about ionising radiation, nuclear radiation in the name of security, not a report on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is that monitoring is not done in Bosnia and Herzegovina on this issue. And this is one incident that we have a reaction to. And next time we'll have a reaction again if something like that comes up, but again like an incident. So we haven't systemically solved this issue, this problem. There are other kinds of radiation that are present in industrial regions, such as Tuzla or Tuzla Canton, but these things are simply not spoken of in such reports by the agency or at least not speaking enough to allow people's consciousness to be at the necessary level, so that we know what danger we are facing. I really ask that, and I appeal to all institutions, that this special agency either exists or does not exist. If there is, it should fully function with a basic task, which is that this is not an incident, but that it is a systematic monitoring and reaction to every problem that arises. Because as we say now, we have ex post reactions and there are these instruments that can be reacted to, and the EU that exists, are not allowed to invest for much less things if the environment, if the people in that area are not satisfied with that intention to invest in that area, and so there are opportunities to intervene here if Bosnia and Herzegovina considers it a commitment, and I think it would consider it an obligation to do so, to point out the dangers that are present from the storage of radioactive waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7012	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7013	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my apologies, I was very late and I was late for objective reasons, and I put my mother in the hospital. So I hope you understand me. I was talking about this topic at one of the previous sessions and I elaborated this problem very widely. I thank a colleague who has now mentioned a fraction of what I have been saying because I have listed the neural points throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina that can be something that will be very bad 24 rings, give a very bad voice, and make sure that the population is exposed to something that has a very bad impact on his health. What I wasn't saying back then, I'm going to mention. And the doctors are silent. In what areas are the largest number of bone disease patients or what is called bone cancer? What rooms? Why is this exactly the space of the Kaknja environment, why it's exactly where this colleague of mine, Tuzle, is why, and I'm not going to list it anymore because I've listed all the neural points there. And it's like someone's acting crazy. There are living people, and I've led here not wanting to burden myself, but giving them only an imput, information that I'm at my disposal, that I was the director of the fire extinguisher and the system where these callers are. You see those upstairs beepers, the ionizing fires, there it is above us. And that I know every place in Bosnia and Herzegovina where they are delayed. That's not what a few tenths say, it's tens of thousands, tens of thousands, in which pits, where, when times are delayed, how long is the half-life and not saying everything. Especially what's called medical, from cobalt bombs and beyond. And it was a domain of protection through this institute and removal and storage. If what the Republic of Croatia is up to happens, then it is not a slap on Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is a slap on every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because those who run this country, or don't know anything, are either complete analphabets from this area, or are hypocritical and malicious, or have some personal interest. That's what, Fehim my, what we say is corruption, right? Because it's just amazing that such a volunteer approach to a problem that is vital to the population. And I say to my colleague Emrić -- you're very wrong if you think it's just that coverage, because we forget the groundwaters, how they go, how they move towards the Union, how they go underground and so on. So it is a broader coverage that will be polluted by something that is vital to health, above all, citizens of that space. Apparently, those who intend to set up a depot or warehouse, storage, have studied the system of groundwater and sewerage well. And it certainly does not go towards their country, but goes towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's a crucial question. How is it possible that the Commission did not take the geological map and it has everything on the geological map of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So I took it, looked at it and the drain went all the way towards us,...that stone sediment, etc., and all the nice treasure went to Bosnia. We obviously forget it. Looks like we don't want to protect our country or our citizens. It looks like we want to court everyone in this world. This also reminds me of the Sutorina Resolution. This reminds me of Bihac Airport, this reminds me not to count. We'll kneel, others will step on us, if we don't sew something up. What have we got here? Destroyed land, destroyed people and the departure of young people from this country. This way, if we continue to be a land of old and empty space. As is now Herzegovina's empty space, such as Posavina's empty space, as you drive for miles, for tens of miles through the chicaru, empty space. We're land on the surface of the size of the Netherlands. The Netherlands has 18 million inhabitants, we have, so be it, Bog damn it, four. What's wrong with us? Do we intend to make this country a country or do this country do something that is absolutely black and unspective. This kind of report leads to black and unspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7014	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. jasmin Emrić's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7015	I thank the chairman. 25 I want to complement my colleague Backović next. I have here an act of the Mining and Geological Faculty of Construction from Tuzla, which was sent to the Council of Ministers, the prime minister of the Federation of BiH, the prime minister of Republika Srpska's government. In this act, they shall specify their ad hoc analysis, which shall indicate non-determinations or hot-evaluation in the process of estimating the location when selecting the location for the disposal of radioactive waste of the Trade Mountain. Under one – geology and seismics, an assumed breakup is visible and is not taken into account. Further, superficially, for surface dumps are the most favourable parent rocks, the parent rock of the top polyocene and quartar clay, and the neoric laporas. Based on the available engineering and geological parameters, the area of the Shop Mountain and the banks of the river Žirovnica are characterized by stem rocks, paleozolics with a series of active slides, i.e. The area is prone to skating. Geology and hydrogeology – a stream of surface waters from the area is gravitated by the rivers Žirovica and Ljubina, which pours into the Una River near the Castle, which potentially threatens the entire plum. According to the adopted criteria, each area where the cumulative population density of 20 km is greater than 80 inhabitants per square km is excluded from all options of consideration, so it is said that the population density in the municipality of Buzim is 131 inhabitants per square kilometre for the municipality of Velika Kladuma 154 inhabitants per square kilometre. It is also noted in this act that the potentially endangered area of the potential disposal of radioactive waste covers only 1/8 areas of the Republic of Croatia and 7/8 territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, this act warns and stresses that the direction of global air currents is from the west to the east, i.e. towards the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and along the UN-San Valley. Also with this act, professors and doctors, eight of them, who signed in this act, are at the disposal of the Council of Ministers and all other institutions to participate professionally and quality in the process of assessing the proposed location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7016	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here, two minutes is for the replica to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7017	I don't want a minute. I thank you, Mr. Emrić, but what they wrote to you, here I am now telling you, there is in the documents of 1982, when a total geological map was made with the Roses of the Winds of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and every bit you just said, I just said, you heard, there's a geological map, that a stream of water towards the Uni, that means, the rainwaters are being collected because of the sedimentary rocks and they're going and they're going towards the Uni, I hope you heard, and I know that, and I've already said that once. And if only those in this one who wrote this had taken the record from that session and read what I said, they could have copied it and we wouldn't have talked about it. It's obviously hard for them to read what we're saying here. And, Mr. Chairman, it wouldn't be bad, and that would be one of my proposals for the next session, that every minister, every deputy minister, every assistant minister, every director, any institutions, agencies, directors, receive records from these sessions. Because I feel like we're playing deaf phones here and talking to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7018	Thank you. 26 Who else wants to speak from a representative? Is there anything the Agency's representative wants to say? Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, is it a mistake or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7019	Let me tell you something. This is more for who knows which time I'm warning you. Here, we're going to go out now, the quorum is gone anyway, we're going to go out now because we've been providing quorum with our session attendance since the beginning of how this Parliament started. We absolutely understand that someone has the need to come out, but that the number of so many that makes it impossible for Parliament to function further, we absolutely do not understand it. We'll get out until the quorum is secured.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7020	What's the status now, how many people do we have? I'm asking the service to, therefore, pause for five minutes, don't leave the O.R. anywhere, inform the agents to enter the O.R. We'll start working when there's 22 MPs in the O.R. Please respond immediately, inform all agents who are not in the O.R. to enter the O.R., the clubs. We keep working, we have a quorum in the O.R. So, please, no one is answering for a word anymore from the MPs. Now I ask, does there need to be a director, will you say something? EMIR
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7022	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7023	Come out for a pay phone, it's important this topic, come on you, we have time for that, please tell me what you have. Here, introduce yourselves, state your function and tell us what you have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7024	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman. Emir Dizdarević, State Regulatory Agency for Radio-nuclearic Safety, director since 01.11.2011. I am very pleased that the participations took MPs and asked questions about this very important issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's importance, and this is about the intention of building a nuclear facility at the very border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The State Regulatory Agency heard from the media, but only the official information was received when it asked the Republic of Croatia about the Joint Convention, about the safe provision of fuel consumption and the safe disposal of radioactive waste that the location in the Shop Gora is still current and that this is the only location in the Republic of Croatia where they can make it, to do such an object in which they would first store radioactive waste that they now possess and after nuclear waste after the decommissioning of the nuclear facility in Krško. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry, Minister Šarović sent a letter to Minister Zmailović and received a reply on May 04th 2015 informing Bosnia and Herzegovina that only initial activities and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be included in 27 activities, if this is the case for Trade Gora. We have sent this letter, which is also in the materials, I hope it has come to the MPs with the esteemed and the letters. As for our response, Ambassador Emrić, our reaction in Vienna, for the first time, we had the opportunity to attend a transparent meeting under the Joint Convention on the Management of Radioactive Waste of Exhausted Fuel, and for the first time Bosnia and Herzegovina had the chance to officially ask a question about this purpose. And we certainly got the answer that it was just the beginning, that they were considering that location and that no research activities were done that needed to be done. Under this Convention, it is very important that such an object does not endanger the population. It is important to build a full and comprehensive study that will identify all possible harmfulities, and above all soil and groundwater geology, which from some previous analyses and studies says that this location is not in the least considered. We as the Agency have certainly been against this location since the first day, and have come to our attention as much as we were, and we have certainly informed both the ministries and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Commission for Defence and Security. Is it logical that the nuclear waste of the Krško nuclear power plant should be located at the border? Of course it doesn't make sense. This is what I mean by the attitude of all residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign state in its territory seeks to build such an object. Here is the big business, which is big money that separates itself from the Krško nuclear facility, so I think we all need to be very careful together, actively involved from the very beginning, with the best of our experts, and if we need to hire and reputed world experts from Europe, from developed countries that have such objects. And that's the same one of these conclusions, when the commission forms this, let's see what we're having, what we have from former analyses, what we're studying, and what's going to be the new ones that are going to be working for this facility. As regards the ESPO and the Archus Convention, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and in this process we have established that it is not a ratified protocol of the Espo Convention which is very important for the Republic of Croatia to inform Bosnia and Herzegovina at the very beginning of the intention to build this facility, so that Bosnia and Herzegovina is actively involved in the intended location. And our position is, in any case, that the Republic of Croatia should give up that location so that no research can occur, so that both geological and intentional objects are created with such an object, for this reason we listed in this Information, which is the intention of closing... objects in Krško, for geological purposes... to accommodate spent nuclear fuel that is actually high activity. As far as local communities are concerned, we received a Croatian letter from the local community, which is opposed to both Bosnia and Herzegovina. The position of the countries, 69 countries under this Convention, is that, even under the European Convention on the Safe Management of Radioactive Waste and Nuclear Fuel, it is 2011/70, that without the consent of the local community there is no building of this facility. And how much information we have at this time, and neither the Republic of Croatia, the local community in the Court of the Union is for the construction of this facility. There are various lobbyings, offering various benefits for residents and the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security has hired the professional PR Agency and directly the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist them in this case, means, in order to eventually isolate the local community to agree to build this facility. As regards concrete activities from our jurisdiction, we have launched these activities and we are certainly constantly in contact with the International Atomic Energy Agency, where I also received information during this meeting, from the inspector for... from the Nuclear Atomic Energy Agency, that the International Agency is keeping an eye on everything and that it has all the information regarding the 28 intentions of the Republic of Croatia. As a delegation, we presented to everyone what the Republic of Croatia left out in its presentation, which was that the Trade Mountain was only two kilometers from the distance with Bosnia and Herzegovina. They didn't locate in their presentations, nor did they show the exact map where they intended the location at which they would set up, so their object that could grow beyond that. As for the question of honourable MP Magazinović, I agree that the title may be a little confusing, that it should be changed, but certainly believe that we are one small agency that only started working in 2009, although the 2007 Law is a little confusing, and there are probably some mistakes, perhaps we don't understand the best. As far as the benefits are concerned, perhaps we got the wrong idea, Slovenia – Croatia, it is that the estimates of any nuclear facility where electricity is produced that the dump costs 30% of the value of the facilities, and you know that this is about tens of billions of euros for these facilities. So there's a big business in the world today about housing that spent fuel. The benefits were thought to be, that is what the residents in Slovenia now live in the vicinity of Krškoga and certainly the benefit of the Republic of Croatia through obtaining 50% of the electricity from the nuclear facility in Krško, which is actually like when all the blocks in Kaknja work. The inevitability of the population to live, the population has only expressed its disdain, and given their education so far regarding nuclear facilities, nuclear material and radioactive waste, we do not believe that such an object should be built in that vicinity. As for the MP of the esteemed Mr. Borić (?) we have already considered a little more on the Commission for Defence and Security, so perhaps there is more information Mr. Borić(?) of the others. As far as Mr. Đonlagić's esteemed MP is concerned, in this year we only received 50,000 KM on the budget to start systematic monitoring of radioactivity in the environment. As far as I'm aware of Tuzla, Kakanj, in the Federation of BiH, the electricity companies are obliged to work meanings in the coal and coal, which our coal certainly contains uranium and to do analyses on radioactivity, with them now, as far as I know, doing the Veterinary Faculty in Sarajevo, which... analyses, but certainly should continue to expand to air, water, which we are going to do this year in these means that we have. As for Mr Zaim Backović, I am pleased to have an esteemed MP who has much more information than we do at the Agency and we will certainly cooperate further. And today, too, our problem is that we still don't have a central storage of radioactive waste that would be managed by an operator that our Agency would license without any problems and cobalt 60 and a European 152-154 for a radioactive thunderbolt that is breaking up, must be taken care of and placed in such a facility. Around these underground waters, it will certainly be the experts of geology, if this is the intention, that they will seek to dispute these findings and future findings of the intention to build on this location of such an object. I am pleased, too, that Ambassador Emrić noted that he has a Faculty of Mining from Tuzla. We are certainly intending, as I have already said, to engage all our forces, and the act should also be promised by Sweden to hire one of their experts from this area, if it comes to that, but I hope it won't come right. And as far as this was going on since 1982, there are stories about this location for a long time, the Moslavina-Sisa County has remained in the space plan since 2001, but that is, I will repeat again, the first official document in which it was said that this location was intended to be used to build such an object. It was... this convention of ours when we put directly to the Republic of Croatia, so we act. I thank you for your patience. If there's anything else I can answer. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7025	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7026	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies, distinguished MPs and MPs, guests, I welcome you all. I think about this extremely important topic that, through cross-border influence, if realised by the Republic of Croatia, would have devastating and inconspicuous consequences on the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina in that area, some things should be said in a very correct, very open and very clear way, that we do not use at all expressions that speak all the time in the context. So, the Council of Ministers has so far and in the future will use everything that is in our jurisdiction to disable and prevent these potential intentions to build on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina a dump site of nuclear waste, because this would be the only example in Europe, including in the world, to delay nuclear waste rights and form at such a large distance from where this waste has arisen. So far, the Council of Ministers has done what it is in our jurisdiction and in capacity. And on the basis of the information we have so far, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has made a request to the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection of the Republic of Croatia, asking us to provide all relevant information on the activities, knowledge and measures that the Republic of Croatia is taking regarding plans to build a nuclear waste disposal site on the location of the Shop Mountain. From the Croatian Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature of the Republic of Croatia, we have received the answer that the process of strategic environmental assessment for the national programme of implementation of the radioactive waste management strategy has not yet started in the Republic of Croatia, and that the national programme, called for on the basis of which it should form and define the location, has not yet been created. However, what is extremely important is the fact that under the espo konvencija no possibility has been given to the affected party, which is in this case Bosnia and Herzegovina, to directly halt the potential intention of the other party in the possible implementation of a project activity that could potentially have a cross-border impact, which would in this case be the municipality and residents within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, we will do, when I speak of the Council of Ministers, in this sense several important steps. We will prepare documents to ratify the espo konvencija which, unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina has not ratified so far, which makes it impossible for us to be an active participant as a affected party in this process, and when we ratify it, then, if we cannot do so previously diplomatically, or interstately, or by forming an interstate commission that would lead activities to the realization of this project, then, of course, we will have to do so in accordance with Articles 5, 15, and other members of the Espo Convention and start a dispute, or interstate dispute on the definition and location of nuclear waste deposits at the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're fully following this situation, we find it extremely important. The Council of Ministers is in the phase of the formation of a committee to be composed of representatives of different subjects related to this topic, which will actively and regularly monitor the situation and developments, the plans and activities of the Republic of Croatia, be in constant contact with the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, realize the objective, which is to prevent the formation of such a dump at borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina because, I repeat, it is not in accordance with either the Espo 30 Convention, nor with the positive practice of forming such dumps that are always located near objects where such nuclear waste has occurred. So, we'll really do our best in accordance with our international capacities and conventions not to allow such a dump to be formed at the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers. It is not usual for us to have a debate after the chairman of the Council of Ministers gives a final presentation, and I asked you if any of the MPs needed to speak. Emrić, sir, if you insist, I'll give you my word. Please, just so you know, it's not common. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7028	I thank the chairman. Very short. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for monitoring this process, but this procedure is taking so long that it needs to be monitored faster. Because a decision has already been taken to initiate the strategic environmental impact assessment procedure of the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy to address the radioactivity of spent nuclear fuel sources spent by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia on 2 June 2015. Information has been published by the Institute on their website, where the institutions and authorities will be invited to discuss the location. The Minister of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia stated that the procedure had not been initiated at the time, which was on 04 May 2015, but did not state that the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security launched the procedure on 26 March 2015. This is a document that proves this, where the local community of the Municipality of Dvor is invited to participate in the evaluation process and to approve the convenience of the location of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste in the Cerkezovac military storage complex. So it is necessary to react with urgency, because according to this information published by the National Bureau of Radiological and Nuclear Security, it is 30 days to deliver questions for a strategic assessment. And I think that, on the basis of the Convention, first of all, the Archduke Convention can react and deliver what the public has in Croatia, and it is signed... The protocol also meant that, so the Ministry of Foreign Trade informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 06.02. that it was signed... Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7029	Thank you, Mr. Emrić. This is how we concluded the debate. Mr. Backović had a discussion, this is a monitor error. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7030	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7031	What are you looking for now, a replica? ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7032	31 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7033	Here you go, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7034	I don't want you, like I said last time, one minute tops. I feel like an MP or like a man who's really ugly here because we're giving lectures on something that's trivial and not getting into the essence of the problem. The cost of 30%, I know exactly how much investment costs, but this investment in Croatia will not be even 3%, because it is used in advance by the former JNA military warehouse, which under all standards is inappropriate for the assembling of this type of waste. So don't lecture me, don't lecture us. I suggest you get into the essence of the problem. What they're gonna make, they're not gonna make, it's none of my business. I'm concerned with my country and my influence on my country. This kind of triviality really feels like it's something that makes us here unread, uneducated, we don't know anything here. I suggest you use the knowledge of these people, these people here know a lot. Life's behind us, not holding an echo, so then this guy's caller, that guy's caller. How many callers are there in the cocoa mines? How many in Livno, how many in the Kreka Banovici? How many are there? Come on, tell me. Does anyone know how many of them are in the bridge mine? I don't want to pick it up. These are the things they need to deal with. They're paid for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7035	Thank you very much. Please, sir, the man has made a correct statement about what he has behind the pay phone. I think he was very correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7036	If he doesn't know, then let him keep his mouth shut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7037	Well, don't say that to Mr. Backović, we don't know how much anyone knows based on one statement, one speech. Leave the men alone. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move on to, before we move to the 14th point of the agenda, I call on the House to declare that we connect, so points 14 to 16. Prepare to vote. Who's up for that merger, against or abstention, let him vote. Vote now. So, with 30 votes to, without against, one abstention, enough entity majority, we've combined points of 14. 15th and 16, right. Ad. 14. - Ad. 16 Giving consent to ratification of Amendment No 2 of the Guarantee Treaty and of the Framework Agreement I'm opening a debate now on these agenda points. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. 32 Moving to point 17. That's it, Ad. 17. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Diana Zelenika to request information on the membership of MPs and delegates in committees, working groups, delegations and other bodies established by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or its homes
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7040	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7041	There's no need. Thank you very much. This is, therefore, the proposal for a conclusion that the House asks for the conclusion of information from our services, whether it is, in fact, the Joint Services on the membership of MPs and delegates in committees, working groups, delegations and other working bodies by the Parliamentary Assembly, or its homes, and we will vote on that. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. This way we exhausted the agenda of today's session. I invite you here at 1:00 a.m. to vote. Please join the voting procedure for the 14th session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote, we vote on point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 34 votes for, no objection, no abstentions, enough entity majority. We've adopted the record. We are going to item 3 of the agenda – Report by the Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović (legal in second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 10 against, so we have, we don't have 2/3 against from Republika Srpska's entities. I find... the commission of the College this law has been passed. 33 We are going to item 4 of the agenda – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the alignment of the text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH). We vote only in the second round on the Joint Commission Report or the College's commission actually. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7047	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-30-0.u7048	And we united, yes, it's fine. So we've made a decision to vote in the package. We are now voting on points 14, 15 and 16 – Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Guarantee Agreement and the Framework Agreement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 for, no objection, 1 abstention, sufficient entity majority. I find that we have given consent to ratification by points 14, 15 and 16. Let's go to point 17. – Proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Diana Zelenika to request information on the membership of representatives and delegates in committees, working groups, delegations and other bodies established by the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. its homes. We are voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, no problem, four abstentions, enough entity majority. I understand we've come to the conclusion of Mrs. Diana Zelinik. 37 In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded today's session of the House of Representatives, the 14th session. I note that the next session is scheduled for 22.07.2015. I also inform you that tomorrow, according to the call you received, 11:30 a.m. will begin the process of establishing groups of friendship of the Parliamentary Assembly. There will be representatives of both homes. And I'm informing you to be present, and the Intelligence Security Commission will be set up tomorrow at 12:30. So, you get everything, you get all the calls from the service, they're signed by Mr. Čolak and me, you get those calls all. Right now, forward the calls immediately. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:35 p.m.
