ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5031	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 6th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office whose reports are on the agenda of today's session were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was not justified by anyone as far as I can see, and 39 colleagues, MPs and MPs are present at the session, so that the session has the conditions for full work and full decision-making. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions in oral form on previous issues, I would like to introduce you to the Central Election Commission of BiH on 09 February 2015 delivered the decision to suspend and assign the mandate to the next qualified candidate. The Central Election Commission of BiH has determined the end of the term of office of Mr Halid Genjac, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 29 January 2015 for the election of delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The mandate was granted to Mr Hazim Rančić as the next qualified candidate from the list of SDA political entities – Party of Democratic Action for the award of compensation mandates. On 9 February 2015 Mr Hazim Rančić signed the Declaration of acceptance of the mandate. I call on the member of the Central Election Commission of BiH, Mr Suad Arnautović, and at the same time justify the absence of Commission President Mr Mikić for health reasons, to give Mr Hazim Rančić the assurance of the mandate. Mr. Arnautović, come in. SUAD
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5032	/delivering the assurance of the mandate to Hazim Rančić/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5033	Thank you very much. 2 Now I call on Mr Hazim Rančić to approach a solemn statement to take over the parliamentary rights and obligations. You will repeat the text I read. So we start by making a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5035	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5036	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5037	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5038	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5039	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5040	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5041	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5042	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5043	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5044	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5045	Mr. Rančić, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to congratulate you on this very solemn statement and on your commitments... Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda will allow MEPs to ask questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. 3 The Rules of Procedure for Asking Parliamentary Issues in Oral Form were sent by the following MPs: Borjana Krišto – the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH; jasmin Emrić – the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Šefik Džaferović – Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH; Nermina Kapetanović – Minister of Communications and Transport; Aleksandra Pandurević – Minister of Communications and Transport BiH; Borislav Bojić – Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; Saša Magazinović – Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH and Senad Šepić – Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. These announcements shall be in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Article 171(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. And this time I thank BHRT for meeting its obligations under the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives correctly and in the manner prescribed. We can now start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I call on Mrs Borjana Krišto to ask the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Human Rights and Refugees. Mrs. Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5047	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs, respected ministers, deputies, respected guests at today's session, respected media representatives and all those who are here through the media follow this work of our session. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Human Rights and Refugees, and the issue concerns the realisation of the Basic Treaty between the Holy See and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See was signed on 19 April 2006. My question is – at what stage is the realisation of this Treaty and what has been realised so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5048	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, who points me to the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, who will give this response on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5049	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, Honorable Representatives. As Mrs Krišto said in the introduction, a basic agreement between the Holy See and Bosnia and Herzegovina that regulates relations was signed. For the implementation of this Agreement, the Council of Ministers, together with representatives of the Holy See, formed a Mixed Commission in 2008 and, of course, after the new government, the same commission was re-formed in 2012. We held six sessions and dealt with the following issues – the mutilation of Catholic believers who are in the regular forces, in prisons, hospitals, spas and orphanages, the way religion is maintained, caritative action, changes in regulations, in the first order of the Unworked Days Act at the time of religious holidays. What I can say is that only so far is 4... Immunity in the Armed Forces. [[Disable microphone]] The contract was concluded with the svet stolica. Prison and police custody prepared a contract and sent through the Justice Department for opinions. Hospital and other healthcare institutions also, through the competent Ministry of Civil Affairs, prepared, sent to the opinion of entities in view of the shared power within Bosnia and Herzegovina. The treaty on the way Catholic religious sciences take place has not yet been concluded, the agreement on the cooperation of state, church and caritative institutions has also not been concluded and any changes relating to the Unworked Days Act for believers are known what fate it has experienced, and on several occasions, here, and during my visit to the Vatican, we discussed the implementation of this Treaty and, in some ways, asked to go into realisation, because the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to respect those obligations it has made in this Treaty. And unfortunately, I can say that, of course, there are objective reasons for... within Bosnia and Herzegovina, shared responsibilities for meeting these conditions that I have already spoken of. However, I would also like to say, in particular, that because of the non-implementation of this Treaty, there may be even more lack of political will, and I dare say irresponsibility, because one of the key ministers who is a member of this Committee has not attended any session of this Committee. This shows the very same interest and responsibility in the context of the implementation of this Treaty. I fear that if political will and responsibility are not shown for the implementation of this Treaty, they will not go far in the future. And also this House and other competent institutions of the Apostolic Notation here in Sarajevo have been asked and warned that as soon as possible, all obligations under this Treaty have been met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5050	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Krišto, do you need to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5051	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5052	You don't. Thank you very much. Mr. Magazinović, is this some kind of mistake or something? Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5053	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5054	Then remove that mistake from us. Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, the issue of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5055	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I join my colleagues and wish all of us a successful day and a successful session of Parliament. My parliamentary question is regarding the border crossing of Raštel Rastela, located in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kordonska Leskovac, which is in the Republic of Croatia. The question is – In the 5th phase, what is the procedure for opening the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela-Kordunski Leskovac, and when is its opening planned for international road traffic for passengers? I'll give you a brief explanation. An agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia in 2003 set out border crossings between the two countries. From 2003 until today, there has been written correspondence regarding the opening of this border crossing. There have been a lot of demands in the earlier period, there have also been concrete activities, however, still a border crossing that has not been opened. I would also like to point out that a large number of citizens living and working in the countries of Western Europe and on weekends using the Maljevac border crossing that is not enough and cannot accept all passengers who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina on weekends or leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are great crowds, there is great dissatisfaction, citizens are bitter and in some way cannot accept the slowness and passiveness of the competent institutions in this process. I'd like a brief answer and specifically what has been done so far with the plan, when this border crossing will finally be open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5056	Thank you. I call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5057	Hello, everyone. To answer this question, we have delegated the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, Mr Vladimir Milenković, who is also a member of the Commission for Integrated Border Management. Mr. Milenković had a car accident on his way here this morning. I got this written answer, if you insist I can read it, and I can give it to you or that for the next session so I can answer it live.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5058	I think it would be best for you to deliver that answer in writing to the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, and at the next session, the one you've assigned to come here and then let's repeat this whole matter, if you Mr. Emrić agrees with this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5059	I agree, and at the next session, then we'll have a comment if there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5060	Thank you, Mr. Emrić, thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Now give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5061	Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. Here you go, buddy. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5062	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I referred the question to the Minister of Transport and Communication of the Council of Ministers of BiH, following a meeting that we three members of the College had with the Management Board of the Public TV System, or the chairman of the Management Board and the responsible people from the service within the Public TV System, as regards the collection of the tv tax. I also want to encourage this issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be resolved in time so that the public TV system and broadcasters within it would not be in a position to experience a financial collapse after 26 April. So, the question is to Mr. Minister of Transport and Communications – What has he done, what is he doing and what is he intending to do with the Ministry of Transport and Communications in order to ensure continuity in the charge of the TV tax after 26.04.2015?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5063	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. And the question of the Minister of Communications and Transport will be asked by a respected colleague, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5064	No, no, he's giving an answer now to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5065	Ah, yes. Okay, thank you very much, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5066	So, Minister, give me an answer to this question, and we'll go to the next one, you're going well, so here you go, though, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5067	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, MPs of Parliament House of Representatives, respected colleagues, funds for public information. The question, Mr. Džaferović, which you referred me to, so on the net, is whether, or just when you arrived at the bench. What I can tell you, therefore, is that I am glad that in the BiH Parliament, here in this conference, there is a part of the MPs interested in solving this problem. So far, this issue has been a matter of resolving a partially resolute ministry within the legal powers that we have, and in fact we have very few, the Communications Regulatory Agency and, in particular, public services. On the fourth month, therefore, on 26 April, it noted that it had been delegated or assigned to telecom operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina and unfortunately today we can find out, and based on the reports you received from the Public TV system, that it was never a lower level of charge in Bosnia and Herzegovina than it was in the last year. The trends that are going in this direction are, in fact, in favour of the fact that the survival of the Public TV system, that is, all services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is questionable. The normative regulation in this area is quite complex, therefore. It speaks of what is the jurisdiction of this Parliament, so we know, therefore, that when it comes to BHRT, it is to a good extent the competence of this Parliament, that entities are in charge of federal TV and RTRS, and we also know that there have been a lot of those who have had a pretty negative relationship on this issue, and they are part of the political mileage, i.e. the political ambience in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also know that there were even those MPs in earlier Parliament's meetings of 7 BiH, or MPs who called for non-compliance with the legal obligation, i.e. not to pay for the obligations of the TV tax, or tax, which has been well-wrought by the reputation of the Public TV system. On the other hand, we have a so-called or we can thus say no to the actions of those who should work when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's RT system in which no corporation has been established to this day even though the legal obligation has long, long, long ago expired, which could round up a system concerning this area. So, on the one hand and on the other, we have a lot of problems when it comes to the implementation of the obligations that are ahead of us, and we have a question that you have asked that is quite in place. This ministry, together with the commission, can try the BiH Parliament's commission in the shortest possible time, to come to a proposal for a legal solution if there is a political consensus for the new assembly of the BiH Parliament. We are ready with a new council and a new commission to sit down tomorrow and try to find the best solution that will be to find a solution so that in a financial sense there is no complete threat, i.e. the collapse of the Public TV System in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5068	Thank you, Minister. Does counterpart Džaferović want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5069	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. On 26 April 2015, the first authorisation of the Regulatory Agency for Communications to the Public TV System and Services, and in the framework of the validity and first authorisation, it is prescribed that the service fee will be collected by telecom operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On April 26th, this year, the obligation ceases. And we have twice - one per article 17 and 18. The system law to bring the Committee of the System into line and establish a new system of payment of the TV fee and the second is if it is not possible until then to refer the draft law to the parliamentary procedure which would extend this deadline. Whatever we do we have to do right now, we can't wait 26th of April with an undefined question because then we're going to have a complete drop in all the services and the overall system. We received, members of the College, people from the system and some services, had a meeting and this is our reaction to that meeting. So I call upon all those who are competent to behave according to the fact that we do not get into this awkward situation on 26 April 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5070	Thanks to Mr. Džaferović again. And now, as announced again, the issue of Transport and Communications Minister Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5071	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished media representatives. My question to the Minister of Transport and Communication is – When will the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Law on the Fundamentals of the Security of 8 Road Traffic and when will it make amendments and additions to the Regulation on the way of marking a vehicle managed by a person with damaged limbs, since the existing category of children has been left out, the emphasis of children, with disabilities and children distracted in development, as well as their parents in a very unfair situation because they are not covered by the provisions of the Regulation which has been in force since February 2007? The reasons for amending and supplementing the Law are set out and are contained in the need to comply with that Law with the European Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Basic Convention on the Rights of the Child. The amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act would significantly improve the protection mechanism for people with disabilities, i.e. to the issue of parking tickets for parents with children with disabilities and children distracted in development. The existing legal solution prescribed conditions for obtaining an accessibility sign and only for persons with impaired limbs whose extremities are relevant for driving the vehicle are damaged at least 60%. By amending this provision, which would also mark vehicles for disabled persons, not only vehicles operated by persons with damaged limbs, would remove a rather discriminatory provision and respect international standards that should also apply to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5072	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović Nermina. Ministers, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5073	I thank Mrs. Kapetanović. The area, therefore, was, in particular, a similar issue being the subject of interest and the earlier Council of Ministers' call and a number of representatives in the BiH Parliament. And here, what I want to say to you on the basis of the prepared response delivered by the Ministry's people, is that this Ministry has prepared a draft law on amendments to the Road Safety Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has delivered to the competent institutions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers. Opinion was delivered by, a positive opinion on the text of the draft law was delivered by the Office for Law, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. The finance ministry, therefore, alone, has suggested in its opinion to this ministry the addition of the reasons of the draft in question which has been made, and the draft law with an updated explanation has been re-proposed to the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Since the Ministry of Finance and Treasury's opinion has not yet been received, an emergency has been sent to deliver the same, unfortunately these are the procedures we have in the Council of Ministers. And what we can say today, and hopefully if that doesn't happen in the next 15 days, 20 days that it will then be one of the first obligations of the new Council of Ministers, the new Minister of Communications and Transport, is that immediately upon receipt of the opinion in question, follow the submission of the draft law in question to the General Secretariat of BiH, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH, to consider and determine the bill. Also in the final phase is the area of marking vehicles operated by people with damaged limbs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5074	Thank you very much, Minister. 9 Mrs. Kapetanović, do you need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5075	Mr. Minister, I thank you for taking seriously the emergency of a delegation of parents who, the delegations of parents of children with disabilities in development and children with disabilities who in the past 2012 have made an appeal to you as a minister, and I thank you very much on their behalf, but all I care about is the fact that in the Council of Ministers' Work Plan for this year, no amendments to this Act have been planned, so I am asking you this time while you are Minister, please insert into the Council of Ministers' Work Plan and amend the law in question, because... respecting the rights of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5076	Thank you very much. The next to have a parliamentary question is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, the issue is the BiH Minister of Communications and Transport. Here you go, Mrs. Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5077	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would ask the minister to tell us – at what stage is the Agreement on delegation and responsibility for the provision of air traffic services between Bosnia and Herzegovina on the one hand, the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the other, or the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5078	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have a third word today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5079	So this is the fourth time I've gone out for this pay phone three times today and once in office.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5080	Too little, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5081	So, thank you, thank you specifically, therefore, Mrs. Pandurević. In the earlier term, a similar question was asked to me, when we were at that stage, my colleague Mešić and they said he was asking the agreed questions. Now it turns out that you, therefore, have given me one agreed question and I especially appreciate what we have to say in this area. So, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport implemented the procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which ended with the BiH Presidency's decision at the second regular session, held on 22 January 2015. The 10th Decision for the signatories of the Agreement was designated by the BiH Minister of Communications and Transport. With regard to the agreement with the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Montenegro is expected to agree on the other side's readiness by the end of this month, while an agreement with the Republic of Croatia is expected to be signed and the date of signature specified. All the necessary activities, all the necessary procedures have been implemented and the official response of the other parties and the signature of those agreements is expected, thus definitely creating all the necessary conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina to take over and control the airspace in our country in October 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5082	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Pandurević, do you need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5083	I have a need to comment. All this would be wonderful because the Commission was formed last May and met once in October and we immediately came to the Agreement. However, the memos that I have here, I'm afraid that here seems to be the Presidency being deceived, saying that there have been very serious problems here. Namely, after the delegation meeting, records from a meeting with Croatia and Serbia say some issues of civil responsibility remain open and issues remain open. What the Civil Aviation Directorate, here a memo, sent to the esteemed Minister Hadžić, is the fact that the head of the Commission, as they claim who is also his adviser, has voluntarily sent a report to the Council of Ministers that the talks have been concluded, and even the records of the other members of the delegation are not allowed but have made a mistake, the minutes have been asked of Croatia and Serbia. What is from the meeting when the Agreement was initialled in Croatia, the minutes show that there were... and representatives of the Civil Aviation Directorate Mrs Selma Hodžić and Radomir Gavrić. But people claim they weren't there at all. So I'm afraid that we have a hard one, the Civil Aviation Directorate warns that it is about agreements that are in that text, as they are compatible, we could do multimillion-dollar damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I think we're going to have to consider this issue a little more carefully and maybe raise a potential issue of someone's criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5084	Thank you, Mrs. Pandurević. Next up is Mr. Borislav Bojić. He raises the issue of deputy foreign trade and economic relations between BiH. Here you go, Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5085	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests. My question is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which is related to the arrival of a delegation of the EU Office for Food and Veterinary Affairs, or the FVO Mission, which has assessed the standards for how many farms in Bosnia and Herzegovina meet the standards for exporting milk to EU countries. In this regard, the farm has been evaluated, some of which have been assessed as unsatisfactory, or they have received a negative opinion. What kind of farms are we talking about? If it is possible to give me an answer, so decadently – Which farms are it in BiH? 11 Practically, we have been given the situation that because we have a constantly negative view of this delegation, we have a practical and final epilogue of this whole Commission visit from Dublin that we have not received practical consent to export milk to the EU. In this regard, too – Did the Ministry negotiate with the EU to allow us, among other things, the land corridor, or transit, or whatever you like, that would go through Bulgaria with the need to export milk to the Turkish and Russian markets? I appreciate that it is clear that the Turkish and Russian markets are interesting for producers from Bosnia and Herzegovina as such. And since we have an agreement with these countries, I ask the question – were the corridors negotiated so that practically milk and dairy products could be driven towards these destinations?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5086	Thank you, Mr. Bojić. The word has a deputy foreign trade minister and economic relations with BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected members of the College, distinguished representatives and representatives of the BiH Parliament, respected members of the Council of Ministers, as well as representatives of the media. This question, I would really like to thank Mr. Bojić, given that we have in some way put this aside in the last 13 months and 18 days, this is a very important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina and agricultural producers. And given that I received the question at the very beginning of this session, I would ask Mr Bojić, so that we do not skip some very important information, that for the next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in writing, we will provide a detailed answer which I am sure is worth discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5088	Thank you. Mr. Bojić, do you accept such...?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5089	Sure. First of all, I thank the Deputy Minister, I think it is useful, not only for me as an individual, but for the entire Parliamentary Assembly and for all of us to get information that I believe is very important, so that in the next steps we can practically remove all these shortcomings and create conditions that our farmers have the opportunity to export to these countries. And finally, that we have knowledge that these farms have not met the conditions to export milk, because it is probably important for those people and peoples and all of us who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the question is what we are actually eating when it comes to these farms. So I think that this information is very important and it is a much better approach to be in writing and to be delivered to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5090	Thank you, Mr. Bojić. The word has Mr. Saša Magazinović, the question is referred to the finance minister and the BiH vault. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5091	Dear Chairman, deputies, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministers, I warmly welcome you all. My question will be shorter than the last time, and that is, – Are there tools and mechanisms in the current legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions that can control foreign banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially with regard to the problem of loans in Swiss francs, but also with regard to loans with interest rates in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are two to three times higher than in the home countries of these banks? What has he done so far in that direction, and what is he going to do? A brief explanation I don't think is so necessary because we all follow what's going on in this matter, but the reason for the issue is increasingly media information about how neighbouring countries oppose this kind of debt slavery of citizens. We find out in the judgments of courts where some credits are declared void, we learn about individual client and bank settlements in a way that solves individual cases, but not the whole problem, but we also learn about the tragic consequences of the inability to pay off credit. We've been reading lately about suicides whose cause is exactly what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5092	Thank you, Mr. Magazinović. Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5093	We had before this session a session of the Council of Ministers and I had no announcement that the Ministry of Finance would not be present, and I would like to prepare an answer at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5094	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Magazinović, can we end this point like this? It's obviously...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5095	Well, obviously we have to chair, but I'm sorry that this is a very important matter and, by the way, it was announced in written form in accordance with the procedure as agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5096	Thank you very much. He again seeks the word of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5097	Since the real question was short and I am, I will repeat once again that full jurisdiction in the regulatory sense of bank operations has entity banking agencies and they are institutions that need to provide answers to any bank's business. You know, on the 13th state level, no bank supervisory law has been passed. And this is the exact question, it can be, and that's why I took the liberty of answering it, as a whole means relations to banking agencies and entity governments that delegate board members, parliaments elect the director of agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5098	Thank you, Mr. Bevanda, and for this answer. I would ask the Council of Ministers to prepare for the next session, I assume that you will repeat this question in the same way as today, and if you can accept that it is delivered to you in writing until the next session and that is possible to do so. So now tell me what to do about us in the leadership of Parliament and the sekretarijat, are we going to look for an answer in writing or are you going to wait for the next session at the beginning of next month when we have this way of asking parliamentary questions again? Here you go, Mr. Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5099	The chairman, it is not a problem for the answer to be brought in writing that we are not waiting for a month, with me not, I understand the powers in BiH, but I also understand that institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina have both the right and the opportunities to coordinate these activities and to take moves like the countries in the neighbourhood do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5100	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Bevanda is not usual, but you're the chairman of the Council of Ministers and MPs, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5101	Well, even the future president will certainly react to this, because we don't have the opportunity, what is said to have the right to make moves. We have no right to take moves beyond what is exclusive to the jurisdiction of entities and others. I think that in my answer I gave a very clear position, this is a question that exclusively entangles entity banking agencies and the Council of Ministers absolutely has no jurisdiction and ability to influence. And coordination is done at the Fiscal Council, but this requires a little wider discussion. I think I made myself clear in the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was past the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to give a word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, especially on this subject. I call, therefore, on the sekretarijat to forward this issue in the manner that it is done by the Minister of Finance and the Treasury of the Council of Ministers and to seek, in accordance with the request of the honourable representative, a response in writing. And finally, we have a question from Mr Senad Šepić, addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5103	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 14 So my question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but it can also refer to many other public office holders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps more as an appeal and as an invitation. So, firstly, how much, from which funds and for which purposes can Bosnia and Herzegovina use EU pre-accession assistance in 2015? Secondly, what is the percentage of the use of these funds in the last four years, from 2010 to 2014, and how many countries in the region have withdrawn funds from the same funds in the same period? And third – What specifically did the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Directorate for European Integration and other competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina do in 2014 to present these projects and opportunities as well as other EU programmes available to our country's citizens, especially those in the fields of education, science, media and culture, to our citizens and institutions at all levels, starting from local, through universities and businessmen? A brief explanation: So this is one of the most important political issues we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are all talking about the EU, how much we understand this and how truly we want this country to become an EU member, we can see it from each of us's moves. This is also the issue that citizens of our country in Bosnia and Herzegovina have the highest degree of consensus. The EU is hoping for our country and citizens and throughout the process of approaching the EU there are financial programmes that can be used by institutions, citizens or businessmen and it is important that the widest public, especially businessmen, young people, students and scientists, is that they are familiar with all these opportunities and that as a society and a country that wants to become an EU member, we work best on it. I was in the Council of Ministers in the term of 2006-2010 at the Ministry of Civil Affairs when our country joined many of these EU programmes, from the FP7, EUREKE programme,..., culture, media and thus is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5104	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5105	to the general public, equal availability of these programmes, as is said by citizens of the surrounding countries. I know that governments and institutions in many countries of the region are helping these programmes to be used by their citizens and they are pulling dozens, or hundreds of millions of marks from these funds annually. So, I think this question will be particularly important in the context of the new leadership of the Council of Ministers, and I believe that we will see this as a great opportunity for us and that we will apply this country's lead logic in this positive European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5106	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5107	We forwarded this question to Ms. Nevenka Savić, the director of the Directorate, and she will give the answer. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5108	Mrs. Savić, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs of the House of Representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Šepić for the questions asked, and here and now in this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly as before, because in this previous period there were more questions to which the Directorate was answering, and they were referring precisely to the use of IPA funds. Here, I'll try to get through the answers to your questions as soon as possible, with me preparing information in writing, given that it's some data, so it would be impossible to read all this over a short period of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5110	The answer is two minutes you only know.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5111	Since three questions are whether I can count on at least five.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5112	Two minutes, try it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5113	Here, as regards your first question concerning the 2015 funding, I would say that the indicative strategic document for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2014-2017 has been prepared and defined priorities and indicative locations. I must say that this document for Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reduced in terms of duration, type and volume of intervention and financial allocation. The reason for this is the stalemate in Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the process of European integration or, specifically, not reaching agreement on the coordination mechanism and the absence of strategic documents for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The estimated location for 2015 is 39.7m euros and is at the location level for 2014. The funds for 2015 are expected to be spent in three sectors: democracy and governance, justice and fundamental rights and law enforcement. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border and territorial co-operation programme is concerned, it will be in IPA since '14-20. participate in six territorial co-operation programmes. Two are bilateral with neighbouring countries – Serbia-Montenegro, one is trilateral – Croatia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina and three are transnational programmes, such as the Adriatic-Ionian, Mediterranean and dunavski. The last call from the previous IPA for a bilateral programme with Serbia will be announced this year. The amount of funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina is 1.8m euros, as planned for another participant in the programme for Serbia. The two bilateral programmes were approved in December last year, and the remaining programmes will be further approved this year and we expect the first calls to be published. I would also like to say that in the process of consulting new territorial co-operation programmes, broad public consultations were made, and on the list of contacts in Bosnia and Herzegovina were institutions at all levels of government. There were also institutions in culture, education, sports, NGOs. The documents were available on our website, and several consultation meetings were also held. 16 As regards the Union's programme for this period of IPA 2 Bosnia and Herzegovina has already joined the Union programmes – Creative Europe, Horizon 20 20, Rasmus plus partially and customs, and in the process is the accession of programmes – Europe for citizens, Fiskalis and Kosne. In response to the second question regarding the use of IPA funds, I would say firstly that we receive twice a year official information from the EU Delegation at the Monitoring Committee meetings, given that the delegation is in charge of financial monitoring and implementation of the programme. And we have the latest data from September last year when it was the last Monitoring Committee, and the next one will be at the end of this month. According to these data, for the period of IV quarter 2008, the conclusion, with September of last year, is 4/5, or 80% at the level of signed contracts or of 513 million foreseen for Bosnia and Herzegovina 411 is agreed. As far as exploitation is concerned, the spending means they're at 60% or 307 million. This is, then, September data. I'd also like to say 14 IPA funds are still not operational. The prerequisite for the use of these funds is the signing of a framework agreement and a further financial agreement. According to our information, the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska's position is waiting for these funds to be further made operational. I must also say, if you remember, the 2013 Alocation has reduced Bosnia and Herzegovina by 45m due to the failure of the negotiations on the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac verdict and the coordination mechanism again. As for the exploitation of the cross-border co-operation programme, you will see in this review that their usability is at a very high level, for some programs even at a level of 100%. In principle, for all programs more than 90%. But here, for a short period of time, I really wouldn't go into it in detail. And as far as the third question is concerned, I'm going to say in a doubt that the Directorate has organised 22 workshops, sessions, round tables, seminars, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. The full 17th edition of the bulletin of the Directorate is dedicated to pre-accession assistance, 40 statements or media information, a publication on the new cycle of the EU programme we have here, and of course there is also online form on our website. Then there is also information on the social networking website, there are also public consultations to prepare programming documents for territorial co-operation programmes. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5114	Thank you. Please, so either we change the Rules of Procedure or we have to treat the Rules of Procedure as prescribed. I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure give two minutes, I didn't want to interrupt now, so I used the Rules of Procedure myself, to hear those answers. Those who ask questions, as well as those who give answers, need to take care of that. So, in two minutes, everything has to end. Mr. Šepić, do you need to make a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5115	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5116	Thank you very much. 17 Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we ended this...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5117	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5118	Mr. Damir Arnaut, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5119	I thank the chairman. I think the answer was quite correct considering that a broken Rules of Procedure was in question. Three questions have been asked for 4 minutes and 20 seconds, so we would really ask, at least in this section, that the Rules of Procedure are strictly respected, especially as these issues are announced in advance, so that the College also knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5120	Thank you very much. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for this session of the House, sessions of the following committees were held: the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Commission for Transport and Communications, the Constitutional Commission, the Commission for the Preparation of the Elections of the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Finance and the Budget, the Foreign Affairs Commission. I would like to inform you that there was a quorum for work and decision-making at all sessions. Yesterday, at a session of the College, we decided that whenever we are addressed by the Commission for the extension of the deadline or for the removal of the agenda due to the lack of quorum, we will ask for a special report from that commission, so that it is taken into account. This time, all obligations are respected so that due to the Commission's relationship to the tide, so the plenary session of the House of Representatives is no problem today. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. On the agenda that you received in the call for today's session in that first call, you add: Point 2. – Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Point 8. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić to discuss the information provided for the initiative of Senad Šepić from the 55th session of the Representative's House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare, in co-operation with the entity, cantonal and government of the Brcko District of BiH, a proposal for systematic insurance of balanced regional development and investment in BiH and to deliver it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration." point 9. – Report by the Commission of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a conclusion from the Commission's Finance Report and Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH Court and Prosecutorial Institutions – Proposer: the Council of Ministers, the Law of 22.07.2014, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina owes the Council of Ministers to draw up a Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments and Other Expenses in the Judicial and Prosecutorial Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would equalise the amount of monetary compensation that 18 receive professional staff in the judicial and prosecutor institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the right to a refund on the basis of the amount of monetary compensation on the basis of the rights of the regregreement of the Bosnia and Bosnia institutions in BiH. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Jasmin Emrić to discuss the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013, which reads: "To refrain political parties and their representatives from having direct and crucial influence in the process of appointing all holders of judicial functions." Point 11. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the receipt of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013 since 24/09/2014. Point 12. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović to discuss the granting of consent to ratification of international agreements, which reads: "The proposaler (BiH Council of Ministers) is required to provide the following information: 1), which is the consequences for the country after these agreements are confirmed and made possible by the implementation of them, and by particular emphasis on non-implementation by the domestic authorities, 2) the number of agreements yet confirmed, which are yet to be implemented or implemented, 3) the total amount of money that has been ratified through those agreements." – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Aviation Act – Proposer: MP Mirsad Mešić, the law of 12.06.2014, with the Commission Report on Transport and Communications, which is negative. In accordance with Rule 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Legal Commission has for the second time requested an extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report on the BiH Civil Aviation Liaison Law proposal – the proposal: The BiH Council of Ministers and now reads – The House's statement on the delivery of a new deadline for the BiH Civil Aviation Law Proposal – the Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, the law of 24.07.2014 or the suspension of the legislative procedure. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5121	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. In accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 79/14, propose to discuss and adopt a new item of the 6th session of the House of Representatives – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives, as the 2nd point of the agenda. 19 The SNSD MPs' club, based on Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, proposes a new item of the 6th session of the House of Representatives, which reads – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, or a member of the College of Representatives' House. The new point is proposed due to the existence of serious accusations expressed through extensive documentation already already made by the previous BiH Vice-President, Mr Kebo, according to the information available on several occasions and in continuance with the new information, which was submitted to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which was discussed in the previous days in the media as well as in the previous two sessions at which we tried to discuss this. The documentation provided suggests that there is a serious suspicion that Mr. Džaferović did not prevent in the past war, reported or later prosecuted war crimes against Srbin in BiH. Article 27(1)(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given everything the public has recently been informed about, and concerns the current chairmanship of the Parliamentary House of BiH, we believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer represent the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. he cannot be the chairman of the House of Representatives, nor a member of the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. In view of all the new agenda points mentioned above, we consider it necessary, urgent and justified and we call on the honourable Members of the House of Representatives to put it on the agenda and to make the decision in question on the resolution. The SNSD MPs' club insists both on political and criminal responsibility. And here in front of parlament, once again, we call on fellow Members to separate at this moment in Parliament politically from criminal responsibility and to support the decision in question proposed by the SNSD Club of Representatives. Of course, if this decision doesn't win, I want to take this opportunity, of course, that if he doesn't get this decision support from his colleagues we won't participate in the further work of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5122	Thank you very much. Are there any new proposals for additions and changes to the agenda? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the SNSD and Mr Staša Košarac Club's proposal as club president on the inclusion as the 2nd item of the agenda of this proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With six votes to, 33 votes against and 2 abstentions, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has not accepted the SNSD and Mr Staša Košarac's proposal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I agree that the 6th session of the House of Representatives has the following: 20 Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Confirmation of appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; 3.. komentar on questions received; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Aviation Act – Proposer: MP Mirsad Mešić, Law No: 01-02-1-28/14, of 12.06.2014, with the Commission Report on Transport and Communications; 5. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Bill on Civil Aviation Liaison in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-13/14, of 24.07.2014 or suspending the legislative procedure; 6. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-35/14, of 15.09.2014. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, of 08.01.2015. (First Reading); 8 / 8 The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić for the debate on the information provided on the initiative of MEP Senad Šepić from the 55th session of the Representative's House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare, in co-operation with the entity, cantonal and government of the Brcko District of BiH, a proposal for systematic insurance of equal regional development and investment in BiH and delivers it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration," number: 01-50-1106/14, of 26.09.2014; 9. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Finance Commission report and the Budget on the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Law on Salary and Other Compensation in BiH Court and Prosecutorial Institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-131/14, of 22.07.2014, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked by the Council of Ministers to draw up a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would equalise the amount of financial compensation received by staff in judicial and prosecutoral institutions on the basis of the annual holiday rights with respect to the Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in respect of the annual pension rights in BiH. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Jasmin Emrić to discuss the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013, issue 01.01/1,02,02/1- 08-1053/14, which reads: "To refrain from direct and crucial influence by political parties and their representatives in the process of appointing all judicial officials." 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the receipt of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013, issue 01.01/1.02,02/1/08-1053/14, of 24.09.2014; 21 12. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović on the debate on granting consent to ratification of international agreements, which reads: "It is up to the Proposer (BiH Council of Ministers) to provide the following information concerning the confirmations of international agreements relating to financial responsibilities on any basis of MPs until the next session at which similar agreements will be discussed: 1) which are obligations – consequences for the State after these agreements confirm and enable them to be implemented, and with particular emphasis on non-implementation by the domestic authorities, 2) the number of confirmed agreements, which are yet to be implemented or will be implemented, 3) the total amount of money ratified through those agreements.’; Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Subject Issues”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1105/14, of 09.10.2014; 14. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Air Traffic Control of BiH”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1131/14, of 20.10.2014; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France concerning the mobility of young people, No 01,02-05-2-1065/14, of 26.09.2014; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union's Horizon 20 20 programme – Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020)) number: 01,02-05-2-1113/14, of 13.10.2014; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-1122/14, of 16.10.2014; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-1167/14, of 30.10.2014; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union programme for culture and creative sectors "Creative Europe", No: 01,02-05-2-1248/14, of 27.11.2014; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Grant Agreement (Other solid waste management project: Neum, Bosnian Krupa, Srebrenica and Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as administrator of the European Commission for Trust of the European Union Pre-accession Instrument Fund, No: 01,02-05-2-41/15, of 05.01.2015; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on consular protection and visa issues, No: 01,02-05-2-1308/14, of 09.12.2014; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-05-2-1061/14, of 26/09/2014; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption through the Anti-Corruption Initiative in South East Europe, issue 01.02-05-2-1310/14, of 09.12.2014; 22.24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the field of education, No 01,02-05-2-1407/14, of 19.12.2014; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine to prohibit the cloning of human beings, No: 01,02-05-2-1223/14, of 19.11.2014; 26.11.2014; Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Chile on co-operation on defence matters, No: 01,02-05-2- 1064/14, of 26/09/2014; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Institute for Prevention and preparedness in the case of disasters for Southeast Europe (2013), No: 01,02-05-2-1115/14, of 14.10.2014. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we move to the first item of the agenda, which is, we have business interventions, I apologize, Mr. Denis Bećirović, and then Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5123	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. At last session of the House, when one of the clubs left the House of Representatives session, I answered the question and asked for a break to see if such an act was in line with the Business House. Then I received an answer from you from the College that by the next session, the College will give an interpretation of Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I would like to ask if the College has taken a position on this matter, and about that, I would like to say my position. I think that the exit of the entire club of MPs from the House of Representatives is a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the provisions of Article 7(1) and Article 4) of Item 1), I remind you, that not only the right, but also the duty of MPs to attend the session, and Article 4 of Article 7 says that the MP may, but not the whole club, leave the House session. In this regard, I want to inform myself first, I believe, like other colleagues, has the College done anything about it and what is the interpretation of the College against it? I repeat, my point of view is that it is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5124	Thank you very much. Please, so we've established the agenda of today's session, these are business interventions beyond the agenda, I'll look back at it, but to let you know that if it was meant to be done, then it should have been within the framework of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Magazinović, business intervention. I'm obliged to give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5125	Chairman, you're right. We should have reacted earlier, but somehow it went quickly to the agenda and I find this extremely important. A colleague named Bećirović referred to Article 7. Rules of Procedure, Items 1) and 4), and I will refer to Rule 2 which also very clearly defines the duty and obligations of all MPs, the presence of the sittings, while in Article 1. calls on the Code and I will remind you that Article 8. The Code of Conduct 2) under (a) and (c) very clearly defines that the absence of a 23 session can only take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this is not defined anywhere, as defined in point (c), and I think it is related to this case, also very clearly defines that statements which are not supported by evidence should be avoided. We in the initiatives served from the session to the session have no evidence of what our colleagues are saying, and we invited them to the first session to do, and it is not necessary to explain that this abandonment of the session is not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5126	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to conclude, so now there's no debate over... you've said business intervention, we'll continue with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5127	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5128	Please nice, we'll prepare the information, we've had this question, I now want to inform you, at a session of the College of Representatives' House. We have considered this question, we have obtained all relevant documents that need to be obtained to answer this question. And it's all true what you said, and business obligations and obligations under the Code. The problem is that the Code is not operational until the end, because the Human Rights Commission did not adopt implementing acts relating to this Code in the earlier term. But here, I commit myself, and the College can commit itself to providing you with complete information for the next session regarding this session that we had and at which we discussed this issue. If we can end this this way? Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives The log you got on time. I'm opening a debate on the record. Who wants to talk? If no one's answering for a word, we're moving on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Confirmation of appointment of BiH Ministerial Council Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5131	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5132	You can't do that now. We'll have business interventions after we've done this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5133	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5134	I'd like to ask you, if you can, that in this solemn act we don't make that kind of intervention. If you insist I will give you my word, I must give you my word. Mr. Denise Zvizdić, wait, Mr. Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5135	So we ourselves have announced that we will try to respect the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Before the candidate exposes the exposés, my question is whether the conditions are met in accordance with Article 182. Rules of Procedure 2), which speaks of the mandatory presence of at least one member of the Bureau at this session?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5136	25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5137	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5138	Are there any representatives of the presidency here? Therefore, Article 182 reads like this – the chairman of the dom invites the Presidency to each session of the House. At the sittings under consideration, the draft laws proposed by the Bureau or addressed by the Bureau shall be subject to the presence of at least one member of the Bureau. The BiH presidency participates in the House's meetings, set up 2) by its representatives and has the right and obligation to participate in the debate at any time. Members of the Bureau are invited to this session today, they are, as far as I can see, not here, nor anyone from the Bureau, but that is no reason not to continue this work today. We received it as information.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5139	The chairman, the SDP MPs' club is seeking a break until conditions are met for one of the members of the presidency to appear.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5140	So, how much do you want to take a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5141	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5142	A 30-minute break. Break 30 minutes, proceed at 11:50. Ladies and gentlemen, the break time is up. We keep working. The SDP club is looking for a break, please give an explanation after the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5144	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the intervention of the SDP Club has brought fruit. I welcome the chairmanship of the presidency, Mr Mladen Ivanić. And it's good to respect the Rules of Procedure we brought ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5145	Thank you very much. I, dear colleagues and colleagues, am taking the opportunity to welcome BiH Presidency Chairman Dr. Mladen Ivanić, and I would like to inform you that there is a series of 26 misunderstandings. So, when we send out calls for meetings, we also inform the Bureau, it was done this time, so the BiH Presidency was informed about the House of Representatives session, but yesterday we established the agenda point concerning the confirmation of Mr Bećirović's appointment(?(?) and there was no further warning and an additional call to the presidency. That's the way it is. We'll see, so here in the Secretariat and in the Presidency what it is and why we're in this situation. In any case, I immediately after the start of the break invited the Bureau and the chairman of the Bureau responded to the call of the House of Representatives. I thank him. The presidency today has a session of the presidency and the chairman will be able to attend here for about 30 minutes. He won't be present anymore. We're moving on now. If there are no further objections and no demands I would invite Mr Denis Zvizdić to turn to the House and submit his exposés, or work programme. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić. May I have your attention, please, to allow Mr. Zvizdić to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5147	The area of culture and sport, which I would like to particularly highlight, must not and will not be put on the margin, because culture and sport are one of the most important brands of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The importance and value Bosnia and Herzegovina carries as a multicultural and... state and imports into Europe is the quality on which the European Bosnia and Herzegovina should be built. In this regard, deeply esteeming the cultural achievements of all constituent peoples, it should be underlined that Bosnia and Herzegovina's culture is a product of mixing and intertwining the cultures of all its peoples and citizens living here and that it represents a common wealth and common good that must be valued and protected in institutional terms. More than 800 goods in Bosnia and Herzegovina were declared a national monument, more than 1,500 waiting on a potential list of national monuments, but unfortunately still more than 70 monuments in the area of the axis and Herzegovina has the status of endangered cultural monuments. A similar situation is with 7 cultural institutions that have unresolved legal status. I don't know if we all share the same opinion, but in me, the feeling of shame is the fact that so long the Bosnia and Herzegovina Earth Museum, which was founded in 1878 and which as the oldest modern cultural and scientific institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a sedimentation of the material wealth of numerous cultures that have left their mark in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see any reason why we wouldn't be very actively committed to this issue, resolve the status of museums, give it to our citizens, our children and tourists, to enjoy the rich history of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as 6 other cultural institutions that carry the prefix of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the Museum of Winter Olympic Games, which has not yet been restored even though it is a symbol of the Olympicism with which only a small number of cities and states in the world can be praised. We must, therefore, change our relationship to our natural and cultural historical heritage and culture in general, especially because of the fact that the present presentation of our culture in the world was mainly about completely lonely examples and depended on current interests in certain parts of entities and local communities, but not on the systematic promotion of projects or authors of their works, and the country as a whole. However, despite the lack of systematic care about culture in general, thanks to the abilities of our institutions and individuals, observed successes have been achieved through numerous festivals and events such as Sarajevo Film Festival, MES, Banja Luka International Film Festival, Mostar Spring, Tuzlan Literature Meetings, Jazz Festival, Sarajevo Winter, Exhibitions of Association of Fine Arts of BiH, etc. I think such projects, which are the real brand of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as all sports associations registered at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be financed from the BiH budget rather than from non-selective funding of numerous associations and organisations that should generally be financed from entity, cantonal or municipal, rather than from the state level. A good check of the existence of our overall will to develop joint projects of interest for the state and entities, but also local communities will be EYOF, i.e. the Youth Olympics that awaits us in 2017 and will take place on the Olympic mountains of Bjelašnica, Igman and Jahorina, with the participation of more than 1,500 athletes from 49 countries of Europe. After 31 years, the Olympic flag returned to 46 Sarajevo and East Sarajevo, reawakening and reviving the spirit of olympics. This confirms once again that the sport and culture of the link that connects and therefore the state's assistance to these sectors in an organisational and financial sense needs and needs to be more quality and efficient. I can say that I will make every effort to change both the institutional and financial advances in the fields of culture and sport in order to achieve the necessary level of consent regarding the affirmation of our cultural values and by pointing to the wealth and diversity that we possess. I want to place a special accent on the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as young people are generally, and particularly highly educated young people face a number of problems, among which the most pronounced problem of unemployment is among the largest in the region. I think that creating a condition for young people to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to bind their professional and family ambitions and intensities to their homeland must be one of the key priorities and the Council of Ministers and all other levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to improve the situation in this area, I will propose, led by good experiences from the region, the adoption of a national youth strategy for the period 2015-2025. And at the end of this set of priorities, I would particularly like to highlight one of the most important issues on which the Council of Ministers has a significant impact, which is the international and regional status currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will be necessary to work on the further international affirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the content and qualitative improvement of our political, economic, security, cultural and other forms of co-operation, in particular with our neighbours, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, with all countries in the nearer region, which are or are not as yet members of the EU such as Austria, Slovenia, Macedonia, Albania, Turkey, Bulgaria, etc., with all EU members, as well as all countries of the world, and especially those who are confirmed and proven friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina, among whom the United States has a special place. I think that to realize this important goal other than our institutions, ministries and the DKP, there is another, in my opinion, insufficiently exploited capacity, which is our respectable, scientific, professional and business diaspora, which can significantly improve Bosnia and Herzegovina's status on the internal and international agenda. As a result, the issue of the role of diaspora in the overall development of Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly be one of the issues to be addressed in the next period through adequate programmes, activities and projects. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that there will always be those who will speak against change and reform, who will stick to the principles as bad as possible, who will wish this authority did not succeed, but I am sure that these will remain in the minority and that progressive forces will overcome the existing impasses, and start processes that will make our country better and more functional. I know that me and the entire Council of Ministers will be under great pressure and that our key rival in the implementation of the reforms mentioned will be time and great, but I must say justifiable, expectations of our citizens that positive changes will begin after a long period of stagnation. The tasks ahead will require confidence, determination and solidarity, i.e. to know that above all individual, party, ideological or any other interest stands the state interest, the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a common framework of our aspirations, hopes and expectations, and that the same thing is expected of us from the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not intend to fail them, and I will do everything in my power to create a synergy of positive forces and that the Council of Ministers and all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina become a place of joint action and the creation of programmes and projects that we will both show ourselves and others and prove and prove that we will and that we can make Bosnia and Herzegovina a place for a better life. For a long time, apathy has ruled, and the pessimistic messages have been leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina in Europe and the world for a long time. I think it's time for that to change. The road is long, very difficult, full of temptations and traps of a different 47 characters and will be overcome only by those who are determined to succeed and those who truly believe deeply in the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. One saying says that there are three kinds of people, those who can't see or refuse to see problems, those who see problems, but because they didn't create them themselves, they prefer to blame someone else and those who see problems and who, despite not creating them themselves, are willing to take responsibility for them. I, as well as the future Council of Ministers, will not be of the first or second kind of people, we will be those who are ready to face problems and take responsibility for overcoming the existing stalemate and initiating the process of root change. I therefore expect future ministers to be professional and persistent in their work, honest and honest in mutual communication, courageous and consistent in law enforcement and, for me, it is an extremely important feature and criteria, to accept Bosnia and Herzegovina as their only country. Am I ready to bear the burden of future reforms on the capacity of the BiH Council of Ministers? Yeah. Am I ready to place my overall work and intellectual and physical capacities and abilities in the service of the function that I will continue to act on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress? Yeah. Am I ready to do my job honestly, professionally and persistently? Yeah. Am I prepared to periodically request a report from every minister on his activities, the degree of implementation of the work programme and the objectives outlined, as well as the reasons why something has not been done, and to point out publicly the shortcomings or irresponsible and communicative behaviour? Yeah. But that's what I'm trying to say right now, and I'm not ready for me and the future Council of Ministers to be a polygon of inter-party, inter-national, inter-entity or any other misunderstandings, or a buffer of the zone between the absence of political will and the expected socio-economic and social reforms. To such retrogeneous and obstructive processes, as soon as we recognize that they are an unargumented obstacle to Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, we will respond in a timely and transparent manner. The job that awaits us cannot be done by any individual or any institution on its own. The scope and complexity of the tasks standing before us is such that only by working together all levels of government and all institutions, and with the support of the general public, we can successfully do it. One of the key roles in such a process will be the media, so I call on you to be professional, and certainly with praise or criticism when necessary, present the work of the Council of Ministers, be our corrective factor, but also the necessary support for the reforms to come. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what's most important. None of this will be possible without your support, without the support of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is a prerequisite for the effective and reform action of the BiH Council of Ministers. I believe that a high level of mutual co-operation and understanding will be achieved and that every MP, regardless of the political option he belongs to, will make his full professional and professional contribution to a joint project that awaits us, which is to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a place of better life. Thank you for your attention, I wish you all good and may Bog save our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5148	I thank Dr Denis Zvizdić for this detailed program of work, for the speech of almost 100 minutes, for the fact that all the areas that life means in this country are affected. 48 And now, dear colleagues and colleagues, I open the debate. The plan is to hold a debate, vote afterwards and take a break after that. It's a college decision. So, I'm opening the debate. So far, I've only got one debater reported, if this isn't a mistake, this is from an earlier report, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5149	The Honorable Chairman is not a mistake, it would be ugly to have this gone without any comment. At the time when the discussion between MPs began, the candidate for the chairman should not be considered to have anything to do with the content of his speech, but simply with the length, since we started to, uh, comment on the length and there were some jokes here in the bench that should be reported in Belgrade to Vukic that he was not concerned and that the speech was near, that he would continue to be the man who spoke the longest at least when the region was concerned. But now let's go back to the speech itself and seriously say that there's no problem with the length of the speech, even more he was more content than we expected. Unfortunately, your appointment is part of a political agreement, and the way we're going to vote and plead here also has nothing to do with how good a program you've put out, and that's too bad. There are several things in the exhibition that I sincerely support and want to highlight them, especially those concerning the European pathway of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is that you have also put young people in the focus of your programme, that you have mentioned a social democratic wing – a society of equal chances, that you have mentioned the environment, agriculture, tourism, areas that are unfairly in the second plan of government at all levels, and so did the Council of Ministers. I also have an obligation to support and establish new state agencies and institutions in the way you have spoken about it and to stress that, although I come from an opposition party that will not support the election of the Council of Ministers and therefore your appointment, in any case positive moves that are in the interest of the state, which it certainly has in your exposé, will have my support. There are several things that I would like to discuss with you, but the time available to us MPs is not nearly enough to adequately look back at what we would like, respecting all the areas you mentioned. For example, I would talk about your vision of our path to NATO, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there will be opportunities in any case during this term and that is what we are talking about. However, it should be realistic and say that the discussion and discussions that will follow will not define anyone here to vote for and against, it is already a less complete matter, and therefore not entering the controversy I will ask you one thing at the beginning of the mandate, which is to deliver me your exposés. Our political paths cross and I am sure that you know that in addition to the Rules of Procedure, my main document in this term of office will be your exposés and that I will use every opportunity in my best interest to remind you of everything you said in the exposé, of all the promises you made, of your vision, and to ask questions and to seek the fulfillment of what is... In any case, I wish you happiness as the chairman, future chairman of the Council of Ministers, the head of our country's government, because I wish you and the Council of Ministers good luck to this country. We will be a constructive opposition. I know that, if there were a lot of those who would prefer to have someone else in the opposition, but my Bog, this is how the cards are divided, and I don't want today's debate to be burdened with the fact that I'm holding back that your exposés will be realized the way you said it. There will be plenty of opportunities to discuss this. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5150	I thank Mr. Magazinović. I was certainly going to ask Mr Zvizdić to deliver his work programme or exposés to the service to copy it and to share it, therefore to all MPs, at least to all MPs in the House of Representatives, of course also to the Parliamentary Assembly website. So it's not at all controversial and it's certainly already I think and was part of the plan. Mr. Denis Bećirović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5151	The Honorable Chairman of the House, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Dr. Zvizdić. I have carefully listened to your presentation, there are assessments that I can agree with, as there are assessments that can be discussed and semi-limized here at the House session. It would have been better if, as MPs, we had taken a break and got an exposé in writing, but what is there was, we had the opportunity to hear your exposure and what are the main guidelines that you will also be handling as the future first man of the Council of Ministers of BiH. It is very important, and I would also like to remind you, that especially MPs with more experience, we have had the opportunity to listen to both exozee and shorter and longer, etc., usually depends on how and from which positions it occurs. If you just want to see what weaknesses and criticism are, then you say it that way, and if you just want to see the bright side, then you're affirming it. I think it should be a task to be as objective as possible, regardless of whether we are in a position or opposition, because I think this country needs a lot more, and you have partly talked about it in your exposé, what is called and the strategy some medium-term, long-term, not just short-term policy or short-term policy, which many have played for the past 20 years. I think we all need, especially the Council of Ministers, more of this reformer approach, more of courage and responsibility, more of creativity and much less of this country in these party chains, party disciplines, party directives that have put us in a position to see that the main centres of power, that the main political decisions are often made in party peaks and not in legal state bodies, in the Council of Ministers, in Parliament, etc. On that side, I expect all of us to contribute, both the position and the opposition, to change these things. That when we talk about it, we are both self-critical and we are trying to make sure of the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we actually have organs to discuss and decide, rather than the flow water heaters of party peaks in this country. So we just need more parliamentary democracy and less partocracies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to say, I don't know why it wasn't done, but it would be desirable, not necessary, if you'd given us your biography. It would probably have some effect on the identification of the MPs themselves. As far as I'm concerned, I've had the opportunity to co-operate as head of federal and state parliament, and my personal experience is positive when it comes to that. Although we're the opposition, there's no reason why we shouldn't have the strength and say what we agree with. That is why I would like to say that your announcements that this period is being declared by a period of change, a period of economic development, a change in relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, an increase in the standards of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should certainly be supported, I agree with that. We may have stayed behind at this point for answers as to how, by what laws, within what time, but it's already a matter of operationalization and your exposé. I want to support your views and announcements that you will not blame those who were before you, that you will strengthen the role of the Directorate for European Integration, that you intend to create a national economic development plan, that the establishment of a Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being considered. It's things I believe we'll all support here, whether we're a position or an opposition. Of course, there were 50 beautiful exposés here in the BiH Parliament, the key question is whether these ideas will grow into works in the coming period. There shouldn't be a pessimist in advance, you should believe that we can really be productive and that a good part of these ideas is really being concrete. What is very important is that today 2015, 20 years from Dejton, we all try, both in position and in opposition, to break certain stereotypes, I will also say delusions, political patterns. In fact, for almost 20 years, we have been witnesses, unrelated to who the opposition was, that most of the time the opposition benches came out and talked – you are the government, agree, if you do not agree to withdraw. So the ones who used to say that sometimes came in, did, in power, and it happened that you were hitting the same wall as the other ones. On the other hand, I think that some things really need to be tried in a completely different way to understand and try to find the best possible solutions in a given situation. Where is the solution, where is the exit to raising responsibility in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In my court, it is in our efforts to try to address certain problems precisely, including those responsible for the stalemate of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We want to speed up this Euro-Union road, the Euro-Atlantic road, we want reform laws, and we need to clearly mark those that prevent such targets from being realised. Our goal, and I agree here, must indeed be the success of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are, above all, citizens, citizens, parents, and only then, MPs in this House. Our goal is to move this country forward, and there's no dilemma. And that's why every success of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least when I talk about myself, will be seen as my success. I especially want to say today, I don't think there should be any failure or error in capital issues for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the next period. There are more of them, but I will particularly today, on 11 February 2015, apostrophe to the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state property, which must no longer be addressed in this new term of office in a way that stems from the agreement of six political leaders. We have a ruling from the BiH Constitutional Court and any solution to the state property issue must come from that ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court. Then the issue of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, the issue of coordination that should not be converted into a new mechanism for obstructions and blockades in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is something that will speed up our Euro-Atlantic path. I have to say, I'm going to say a few things I'd rather say, Mr. Zvizdić, to take advantage of, perhaps, in the coming period, you're going to incorporate a little and more extensively into your program, and in my court, they're very important, that's the first question of the NATO alliance. Today we've heard little or nothing about it. Politically and understand why you opted for this approach, but here as an opposition MP, I would very clearly like to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in NATO is one of the two strategic goals of the country's foreign policy, and this was adopted unanimously by all three members of the BiH presidency. I also think that we need to be much more apostropheic about fighting all kinds of crime and corruption. When I say that, I return to this statement of yours that we should create a society of equal odds. We absolutely agree here, but in order to really show people that we want to do this, we're going to have to manifest it in concrete steps. The country's wound cancer is political corruption and political nepotism. We must have the strength to stand up to this problem and to stand up to all forms of corruption and crime, no matter which party book it carries with it. I wish that, in this exposé, there might have been more notes, because you yourself pointed out that the factor of time is very important, that we know exactly what the Council of Ministers can do in the first 100 days. Let's see what we can do in the first year, in the second year, so that these goals and certifications can be as measurable as possible with our MPs, especially with opposition MPs. I think it would also help the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to monitor as closely as possible the realization of these ideas that are presented today. 51 And finally, given that I have 9 seconds left until the end of the exposure, Mr. Zvizdić I wish you good health and to arm yourself with a weapon called patience and tolerance.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5152	I mean, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not mandatory to use all 10 minutes. Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić signed up for it. Here you go, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I will very briefly, as the opposition's representative, look back at the exposures we had the opportunity to hear from our candidate, Dr. Zvizdić. And above all, given that many Dr. Zvizdić have been congratulated on the courage to accept this very responsible function, and I want to join those congratulations and congratulate on the courage given the overall state of the Bosnia and Herzegovina society and its citizens. When I ask myself why I am in the House of Representatives, then I say - I am for changes, changes that will lead to a better life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And Dr. Zvizdić, in the opening part of the exposé, has made it very clear, which I support, as a member of the opposition, I support. I also support the reforms announced, as well as economic development. And just as a political party, we based our political platform on change, reform, economic development, improving administrative apparatus and public administration in order to bring closer and improve the services we provide to citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I fully support this priority that is highlighted in the exposé. We also support those announcements of changes in relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, turning towards essential, strategic things that will bring Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European community, joining developed countries and in some way ensuring our citizens a better life. In an exposé that was, I must say, detailed, comprehensive, systematic, it covered all the areas it has in the power of the Council of Ministers. ekspoze are based on strategic commitment, and what we support is to meet the conditions in order to enter into force of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement. It is a priority for all of us and, in this respect, we as a political party and I as its representative will give full support. A new age is being announced here. I agree that a new era is needed for Bosnia and Herzegovina, a coordinated and synchronised action called joint action. This joint action here requires political agreement between all political parties. There are also a lot of elements in the exposé that will, in some ways, need general support and society and this Parliament. We're going through the exposés that's presented here to follow up on this exposé and in this way we're going to determine ourselves, but we certainly have to give a chance to all of those positive processes that are highlighted and that we will hopefully face in due course and face each other. There have also been talk of irresponsible individuals so far, irresponsible policies, all the problems that are hampering the development of a modern and better society in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been identified, and we welcome this. It was very high-quality to prepare it all and elaborate here and we were in a way and we lost our attention, we lost focus following that exposure, because for more than two hours whether, about two hours we should have kept an eye out. I agree that the exposés should have been delivered earlier to meet him and perhaps to prepare our discussions better. What encourages me is an emphasis on improving the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here they are, there is a particularly far better and more high-quality 52 use of the natural resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which we agree and hope that there will be opportunities for the Council of Ministers to all of what is contained in this exposé to work in this way and delivers to us in due time so that we can give their support or critically look back and not give support to those processes that will not be in line with the presented exposé. Yesterday, as a member of the commission, I asked Dr. Zvizdić one question, and it concerned the formation of the agriculture and rural development ministry. Following that area and at a local level in my work so far, I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina should take a step. And exactly what Dr. Zvizdić in the exposé counted the responsibilities of a new ministry. And we need to analyse all segments, listen to the public and try to come up with a quality solution, form a new ministry or far better, quality organisations that will be able to do whatever is necessary for our agricultural producers to use EU funds, which relate to rural development and the development of agriculture. Also what's an obstacle... is the VAT Act and I hope that the announced amendments to the Law will go towards facilitating the business of existing economic operators. [[You can't hear me.]] I don't have to remind us that the economy is collapsing, but that a lot of companies have collapsed, because just by lending big investments, they've come into a situation where they can't pay the VAT first, and then they can't do their business, or there's no employment, and there's no new job, there's no new value. I hope that, through the Council of Ministers and through the announced processes, we will have the opportunity to testify on the implementation of the announced measures. It is my expectation, and in that sense I will support this exposé and I want Dr. Zvizdić to at least spend approximately what is contained in the exposé with the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5154	Thank you very much. This has been seven minutes, something's wrong with this device, look a little after six minutes, the time has canceled, so it's started to run again, the technique. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5155	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Zvizdić. In order to try to capture what you have completely given very systematically and try to cover your exposé essentially all segments of life regardless of the total competences, and according to what we call the Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement, which I agree with, because these are all segments that are segments of real life in Bosnia and Herzegovina and where we are fortunate that in this real aspect of life we can disperse the decision-making and decision-making way from the top to the bottom and from above. I hope that in previous talks before you decided to accept the candidacy you agreed with those who would represent the Council of Ministers in the country. I have to say this because the segments you've included in your elaborate or exposé are segments that require the full consistency of political entities. Unless there's complete harmony, there's a great deal of disharmonicity. I'm going to give a little segment that I've tried, meaning in accepting your exposure, you started even from preschool education that is the basis for all education, and actually the basis for what we finally get a man as a product, a man who's ready, who can, knows 53 to work. How many of those at lower levels will be willing to accept your way of thinking we'll just have to see it. You also mentioned a way of registering the company, that's what I was about yesterday in a brief conversation with you trying to touch. Namely, the company registration in this country is multilayered. How to solve the problem that those who want to do business in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have to under the permus to fully own two firms, one in one, the other in the other entity, and not to be established abroad in another entity, either from the RS in the Federation, or from the Federation in the RS, representations, which is absurd. You mentioned banking, and you said in one sentence – a developed banking system. After all, you forgot your broken banking system. I'm saying this for a reason, because I don't know if I'm going to take an X-Filen bank of the same name, but it's two banks, a bank in the RS and a bank in the Federation. The Bank of the same name and last name is controlled by the Banking Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Bank of the same name and last name in the Federation is controlled by the Federation Banking Agency. So broken, not developed. I hope that you will find the modes to come up, because that is what we call a single economic market, a single business and a unique economic, with full respect for the Constitution and with full respect for local communities. Also, given that you have listed in the natural part of what is the basis for the development of a country, and you have stated in your elaborated segment of water, through natural resources, which is very important, very important, I hope that you will succeed, you will have the full support of a unique strategy when it comes to energy. Under this, I don't just mean building energy plants, energy is a little wider. In total, you will have support when it comes to exploiting and protecting the natural resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the basis for the development of the economy, also full support for the undivided, I hope you will succeed. Again, that is all, everything depends on the political mile, that is, depends on how you have aligned with those who will make the Council of Ministers together with you. I would ask you that, given that you have taken a wide range of things, you have gone very broadly and deeply, I would ask you to try in this systematicity in the talks now before forming a search for people who are willing to enter such a business. Only one link in the entire chain, if it's not in that harmony, that chain will collapse. Under the circumstances, we have the Council of Ministers as we have, jurisdiction as we have. The competencies are mixed up so that if one link rusts, the entire Council of Ministers, or the disharmonicity here among us, you will have. I wish you good luck, and I hope you will succeed in your purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5156	Thank you very much. Mr Mirsad Đonlagić picked up the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5157	I thank and welcome everyone present in the hall. I'm really going to be short, unlike those who promised to be brief, so they still said I don't know how long you've been able to figure that out. But I want to say that this exposure was unusually long, and I think it's the longest exposé that's been said in the BiH Parliament so far, that my serious grudge that we haven't had the chance to get the exposure before so that we might be prepared to participate in this discussion and this discussion of this exhibition in a more quality way. I also think it's a very serious failure that we didn't have Mr. Zvizdić's biography to make sure that his biography, his life path, provides a guarantee that those things that are listed in the exposé can be realized. The Ekspoze is very ambitious, of course, as said, knowing both the overall relations in BiH and the way of the constitution, the constitution in the Council of Ministers, and having in mind some things from 54 past periods, i.e. over the past period, I personally doubt that what is said will be realised. Of course, there will be an opportunity for us to talk about these things later, and that is why I think it was very important that we had that exposure at our disposal. What I say is visible or what is known from Mr. Zvizdić's biography is that he has a certain political experience that is respectable, but that what I think is missing, those capacities or potentials that people develop by working in the industry, working in the real sector, dealing with business, have these concrete abilities to do what BiH is at such a difficult moment extremely necessary. So, in order not to take time for my colleagues who are likely to talk more about what we're talking about here, I have no intention of taking any longer, so I'm going to repeat one more time, and I'm not optimistic that this kind of exposure, or this kind of program, will be able to be realized in the period ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5158	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. ---14:0700------ - 14:07:00-----
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5159	I thank the chairman. Here is how Mr. Đonlagić has already spoken partly of the exposé, that is, the length of the same, we have heard very much, we have heard to be honest, very fine things that can only be supported, but the exposé as such is extremely ambitious and we are not convinced that this authority that is proposed will be the rise to fulfill what we consider to be promises. And that's why I would really, and we're asking to get that exposé, because we're certainly going to use it to remind ourselves of it in the next period. One of the reasons why we are not optimistic is that, above all, I find it extremely unserious that the House of Representatives only today, exactly four months from the General Election on the agenda, has a proposal to confirm the chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers. Especially since both at this House and in various commissions, representatives of the ruling coalition have now envisioned extraordinary sessions in the first half of December, then the new year's turn, and immediately after the new year, in the second half of January and so on. Not to mention the fact that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH specifically states in Article 9 that the BiH Presidency makes the appointment decision no later than 15 days after holding the constitutional session of this House. So that deadline was set on December 26th. Now that the ruling coalition has become aware that we will not have the Council of Ministers until March, we have started listening to stories that will be a record. But, unfortunately, BiH citizens became hostages of the disturbed standards that followed the elections four years ago, when we waited a year and a half to form power, so now for us all whether, uh, anything less than a year and a half, it should sound like a record. And speaking of records, these are statistics after all the post-war elections. After the '96 election. The year, January 3, '97. The chairman and the Council of Ministers' full assembly has been confirmed in this House. In '98, it happened on February 4th. In 2002, we had the chairman-in-Office on December 23rd, and a full meeting of the Council of Ministers on January 13th. And in 2006 on 11 January, chairing and on 9 February, a total of 55 Council of Ministers' meetings. And we've already been through all these deadlines. Now I looked at all the minutes from all the sessions I was just talking about, and at all those on which the Council of Ministers chaired were attended by members of the BiH presidency. So this failure today is really strange, given the fact that immediately after the war, we had members of the BiH presidency at the confirmation of the Council of Ministers chairmanship. Anyway, it's February 12th, and we still don't have a Council of Ministers chairman. So other than whether, four years ago, all deadlines were broken long ago. But well, here's when the ruling coalition has already managed to agree on chairs or at least some, it would have been really useful if we had been given MPs, had we received a biography of candidates for the Council of Ministers, as well as the exhibits that are being exposed today and frankly, this is not, nor can it be a criticism to the candidate. He delivered all necessary materials to the BiH presidency. The BiH presidency forwarded this to the home's competent commission. However, neither the competent commission nor the College have found it appropriate to deliver it to the MPs, is it necessary to make known today about this candidacy. All of this essentially points to one approach to this ruling coalition, that it is an important political agreement, that it is not a biography, that it does not matter who is proposed, that it does not matter what, whether this person meets certain conditions, is acting as the most influential position in the country, that it only matters if a political agreement has been reached previously. But since we're voting whether, uh, about the candidate, means besides all these facts that I've pointed out, all these delays that don't give us reasons for optimism, that a lot of what's been said in this exposé will be fulfilled. I also want to point out the very history of the candidate himself, that is, the history of the candidate himself in, let's just look at the previous summation. According to a report from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, the candidate in the Federation Parliament's last term of office, so for a full four years, asked only two questions and addressed only two initiatives. He didn't have any amendments, he didn't propose any laws, and only 31 times he took part in the debate. When it comes to these two initiatives and two issues over the course of four years, it is less than 95% of the Federation Parliament's calls. When it comes to participation in 31 discussions, it is very little compared to other MPs in this House, including all SBB representatives, so there is really no reason for optimism. As I said in the exposé, we've heard a lot of nice things, many of which, everyone can say whether, they'll just support it, especially if, when it comes to fighting terrorism, and some of the strategic things we've heard, culture, sport, economy. There has been a lot of exposure to whether certain parameters are known to us all. However, whether considering this, also considering that during the candidate's presidency of the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives, less than 20% of the plans and programmes were met. Again, there's really no reason for optimism. But here I really hope we get this exposé, that we get the candidate's biography. I point out that it is not a criticism to the candidate, I have made sure that he delivered everything he had to deliver, but it really bothers the College's relationship, the attitude of the House of Representatives, that it was not found appropriate, at least to forward the biography there to MPs who are expected to vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5160	Look, you can criticize the College whenever you want, but that's all it needs to be. And I ask you to, I see that you intend to sharpen yourself towards the College, to stop in time, because this has been delivered to the Council of Ministers for the selection and appointment of the Council of Ministers. She got all this and everything we got from the Commission as a college, we passed it on to the MPs. 56 The word has, Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must warn of Article 155 of point 4 which says – once the chairman of the dom reads the Decision appointing the Chairman's Council of Ministers, he gives the floor to explain his programme, which will be discussed. So, we are having a debate on the programme of the chairman's council of ministers, not on personal or other political issues. I understand colleagues from the SBB that they will not support the chairman, but that is less important at this point and less relevant. So the important thing is, if we're discussing this, we're discussing the program. I think it is also incorrect, regardless of the business possibility, that it is incorrect to report from one club of four MPs, three MPs and to discuss the political attitude towards the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Incorrectly towards us, other colleagues who, respecting them, would hear of course their discussions, but since this is the point of the agenda and given that Article 155(4) stated this, it was enough for one of the colleagues to state the position of the political party. Nothing will be more striking if all four speak of him in the same way, nor will he be less striking if one of them speaks only. I'm talking about correctness towards us, the other MPs who are sitting here together and we're going to sit for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5162	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Replica, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5163	I thank the chairman. I also thank my colleague Novaković, but this, he obviously referred to the wrong address. He's not the tutor who needs to tell us how we should do and what we need to discuss and how we should discuss. We want the dignity of this House to be placed at the right level, not to treat this House as it has shown the need to postpone this point, or at a break. Therefore, it is our right to take the opportunity to talk about both the candidate and the programme, because it is inseparable to talk about the programme without mentioning the candidate. Therefore, we will exercise our parliamentary right, by speaking or by all four, and perhaps sometimes they will not speak, there is no need to speak. Therefore, we have the same right as anyone who sits in this hall, to speak according to their own intentions. At least it's the fundamental right of anyone sitting in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5164	Thank you very much. Sir, Damir Arnaut, business. Just sign in, please. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5165	I thank the chairman. May I direct you to article 78? The Rules of Procedure which he says – if he wishes to participate in the debate, the House Chairman leaves the seat of the Chairman of the House, goes out for a pay phone, during the meeting of the House is chaired by the first Vice-predsjedavajući of the dom. A moment ago, after you had some observations, I tried to search for business intervention, I don't know or you didn't notice me, but I would really ask you, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, to consistently apply. It is not correct to replicate in this way, you have not responded to the replica, and you have not respected Article 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5166	The word has a gentleman, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5167	Mr. Chairman, working presidency, Dr. I will Zvizdić, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives and other present guests. We heard an eloquent and substantive presentation of candidates for the Council of Ministers' Chairman. It's a feature of Mr. Zvizdić and he's a capable man here. A lot of things have been said that are well-founded. The findings and requests for actions are actually a criticism of the current authorities. And that's our opposition attitude, and in that part, we see a lot of good things. Here one question is raised, as Mr. Zvizdić comes from miles of political structure that participated in the acts or inactions highlighted in the exposé as shortcomings or expects to have obstructions from structures that make up the coalition majority. What is said in the exposé is that in many dimensions BiH needs. And I believe and I want to believe that there will be a way to get rid of it. But in solving what stands before us, in addition to the executive authority, Parliament in.... part is a key subject of the legislative process, and there is no movement forward without it. I'm sorry Mr. Zvizdić didn't address us here today, asked the opposition for help, to get rid of these things. On the scale of democracy in parliament, the opposition is the subject of the process. Well, we've seen that today's condition is such that here and the House of the Peoples couldn't complete their session. That's why I'm worried, that we haven't been able to hear today from the prime minister when we're going to have the Council of Ministers. When? With what hand? For a reason, and I support it, it has been found that time is a resource that we cannot compensate for, that flows tirelessly, is a resource that costs us all. When will we have the Council of Ministers? And secondly, whenever you present one program in which you elaborate many facts and suggest many acts, the basic question arises - where are we today and what should we be in 2018? There was no exposé in that determination. We're here today, and there's a lot of things being said about what we are here today, but there's no telling where we're going to be in 2018. And the role of both executives and legislative authorities is to pave the way and sectional analysis of the situation. I wish the citizens as the subject of creating the process at... more directly in the exposé were highlighted. Especially in changing economic miles and economic subjectivity. BiH will not be able to see its perspective in the development of the state economy, but?? in the motivation of the individual and his creative potential and the means to which he has. Today when we're in crisis, when governments on entities take short-term records of money, to shut down holes, we have 8.5 billion KM on savings in banks by citizens and we don't turn to it and we don't talk about how to pull it back. I am sure of one thing, if the authorities... of all levels, and our executive power in the Council of Ministers, with 58 predsjedništvo, do not find an answer that will motivate a citizen as an individual in the subject of creating new values, that economic perspectives are not important to us and are not a priority. For this reason, I also support the demand that the public follow what is done and that the public responds to what they are looking for. I wish the prime minister, as an important man in the process of the future executive authority, had given some answers to the questions surrounding his position and actions.?... We are all obliged in this regard to make it possible to know what our attitude is and to give answers to what it is. If we could solve the things set in the exposé in a mandate that is ahead of us or determine the main provisions of what is in this mandate, then I believe that we would do a useful thing for BiH, its organisational structure, peoples and citizens. In that sense, we will support everything that comes from the Council of Ministers and be moving forward. But I also want to point out that we're going to be what the opposition's role is, reasoned critics of things that don't seem to be. We must restore our dignity to Parliament. But it's not just this Parliament that's at risk. I was in a federal parliament where the government wouldn't attend Parliament sessions. We had a session where there was no one. We're going to insist on things like some of our colleagues here today insisted at the beginning of this point that everything that isn't adequately covered by the proposal be taken off the agenda. To all those who take the role, I want good health and the result they will achieve, because BiH has been citizens for the last decades on the downward path of its needs. We have to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5168	Thank you. The word has a gentleman, Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5169	I thank the chairman. I'd say a few things when it comes to exposure. I think it was necessary for us all to have that exposé and to have a more contentious discussion of the essence itself. What we noticed in the exposé was that there was little talk of public debt, both internal and external debt. Fiscal policy, i.e. fiscal stability, very little or no cash. There was no question about the economic strategy. A little, almost nothing about the incentive to export. A little or nothing about state property and succession. O Sejdić-Sejdić-Finac, I don't think it's mentioned. However, there were good things. It was about the banking system, it was about the economy, it was about something this country needs very much. What's asking the question from the exposé itself is, I think we've heard there's an increase in excise duty. If it's an increase in fuel prices, then we know where it's leading us. The second thing I would like to ask is a question, so what results from this exposé, Mr. Zvizdić himself thanked his voters. I think it was necessary for voters to know and how many in your term, over the next four years, of those 100,000 people, you're going to hire. So that's when it comes to exposure. When we talk about a proposal for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the SBB Club, to be clear, has no confidence and will not support this proposal for at least two reasons. The first is that the proposed candidate, Mr. Zvizdić, has no experience needed to find a way out of this difficult situation in which BiH is located. There is no experience in the real sector that needs to be sensitive to radical reforms that should be in the economy, economy, banking, and all other areas, from education to justice. The second reason is 59, you said you stood up for a society of equal odds. Here in this room we've heard that sentence three times already. So what we don't believe in is a reason that can be read on portals, of course the Daily Avaz and in electronic media, really worrying. Because that creates a circle that can affect people's lives and freedoms. Namely, I am obliged to say that Mr. Zvizdić's mother and mother of the Čampara brothers are one of whom is a prosecutor and the other is a candidate for the BiH Federation's Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5170	In your discussion, please focus on the exposure as Mr. Novaković used to say. Don't make personal insults to each other. I'm obliged to warn you of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5171	This was in the media, this is what this House needs to discuss. If we add that the Intelligence and Security Agency corresponds to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it becomes clear how this is possible for the impact and management of fates. Let me add that the cousin of the aforementioned sisters is the wife of Parliament Parliament Speaker, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. For all of this, we believe that this must be known and that it is a circumstance that cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5172	I don't hear what my wife is like, she's an auditor at the Federation Audit Office, so you know. I'm closing the debate if no one's answering for a word anymore. Prepare to vote. We vote to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 28 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, confirmed the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint Dr. Denis Zvizdić, for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. On behalf of the House of Representatives, congratulations to Mr. Denis Zvizdić. I invite Mr. Zvizdić to speak briefly. After that, we'll take a break for lunch.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5174	Of course, I'll be very brief. I could, of course, comment on certain discussions, some very reasonedly deny, and of course I would tell someone to think about the level of dignity they've brought down this House to their discussion, but since I consider this a solemn act, I'm not going to do it this time 60. I thank everyone who voted for me. And I thank those who didn't vote for me. I repeat, I expect that together, so we will all work together for the sake of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5175	Thank you, Mr. Zvizdić. We'll continue at 3:30. Thank you. Please inform the MPs' clubs, it was almost 15 minutes ago to get to work. Let them know, let them head for the O.R., or we'll have to make decisions. We can wait 15 minutes, just wait. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, 22 are representatives in the O.R., we can start working. We're continuing with the third item of the agenda. Those are the comments, please call the clubs again, have them come to the O.R. here. Ad.3. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5179	Mr. Chairman. So, this Law, which was adopted in the first reading of the previous Parliament's assembly, has caused quite a lot of attention, above all employees of agencies, or Civil Aviation Directorate, and these people have managed with their activities to..... some forces that did not actually support this Law. I believe that this Law is extremely valuable, necessary, and for the reason that the previous Rules of Procedure are attached to it, I am prepared to offer the House of Representatives to withdraw this Proposal, so that by the fall of this Law we do not create a situation in which the Law would not be adopted in the next six months. It is true, in fact, that almost all members of the Transport and Communications Commission have claimed that this Law must be amended. And here I am asking my colleagues at the House of Representatives to support this proposal and withdraw the law, and I will use my business opportunities and ask the Council of Ministers to pass the law from the new Council of Ministers, to pass the law in some near future. So the only reason I'm asking is the fact that by falling this law, the process of passing a new law in some time that could be six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5180	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković called for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 62 So I will only talk briefly about the Report as chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission. Namely, the Commission rejected the bill's proposal, first of all, taking into account several very important things. We did not get the Council of Ministers' position, although it was twice asked for the Council of Ministers to deliver a position under this Law. We didn't even have a written position of the ministry, although the zakon defended, a minister's adviser, the current minister of traffic and communication, but we didn't have the ministry's position, and we had the BHDC's position which was completely contrary to the minister's position. So the Commission found itself in a situation where it simply didn't, I didn't have to say completely, a clear situation, and in particular it had no elements in front of the Council of Ministers that could help it adopt this Law in any way. What is very important, which has been led by the Commission, is that we received from BHDC at the session, believing that, at the end of May, and by the end of May, there will be a whole new law. Thus, the new Law on the Air Force of BiH, and that it will also take account of this bill when it comes to making the law. Of course, whether they will install it or not, it is now on the proposal, but we, like the Commission, have asked them to keep an account. Here are the reasons why the Commission did not accept this proposal. As far as I'm concerned, now as MPs and not the chairman of the Commission, I don't know if it's possible at all, because we're not discussing the Law today, we're discussing the Report. The procedure is known, if the Commission report is not accepted, it is known that the law is returning to the Commission again, and if the report is accepted, then the Law has been rejected. I'm afraid we can't accept business now that the proposer is withdrawing the law. If we can do business, I agree with that, no problem. I repeat, given that we will have a brand-new law somewhere in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5182	Yes, thank you very much. No more reports. Just for the sake of it, I'm saying that things are in the Rules of Procedure. It's actually already been said in the opening part. Therefore, this Law at this stage, in the light of the Rules of Procedure applicable from the previous call, because the procedure began in the previous meeting, cannot be withdrawn. According to the Rules of Procedure, it was possible to withdraw only until the end of the first reading, this is the second reading. But given the negative view of the Commission and given the current position of the legislator of the Law, that he is also ready to withdraw it, I think it will be clear to the MPs how they should vote, when it comes to the Commission's report and it is possible to find a very simple and elegant way out of this situation. Just so I don't suggest, you all know how to treat it. I'm the one who concludes the argument. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Bill on Civil Aviation Liaison in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-13/14, of 24.7.2014 or suspending the legislative procedure The draft law was adopted in the first reading, in the last term at the 73rd session held on 25.09.2014. At the request of the competent, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Bill was removed from the agenda of the 3rd session of the House, held on 15 January 2015, and the College extended the deadline for the delivery of the Report by 20 days. On 10 February 2015, the Commission requested for the second time an extension of the time limit for the submission of the Law Proposal Report, and this point was recast in accordance with Article 120(6). Rules of Procedure. The college proposes to extend the deadline by 20 days. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda number six. That's Ad.6. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-35/14, of 15.9.2014. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. Here is the proposal for a law on the customs policy of BiH and I, as chairman of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, I just want to say a few words. We have a good legal solution that has actually been done for some two years. All procedural meanings have passed, opportunities for alignment with entities, within the Council of Ministers, etc. etc. Four adopted amendments are actually an improvement in the text of the Law and a precision of the provisions contained in this Law, as Mr. Chairman Džaferović reads. Two amendments by colleagues Milovanović were also the subject of the Commission's debate on foreign trade and customs, but since it is a transfer of public authority, from the BiH Chamber of Commerce to entity chambers, no majority within the Commission was required. I therefore call on my colleagues to support this Law,... in fact, to comply with EU norms in both formal and essential terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5186	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5187	I thank the chairman. I'm a little embarrassed, because here we are forced to defend, but I don't know what SNSD's views are, because there are different SNSD views on this matter. And we were in the first reading against this law. Namely, respected counterpart Mehmedović spoke about Mr Milovanović's amendments, which we support. And those amendments are nothing new. When we received this Law, the RS Finance Minister informed us all MPs from the RS on our request, we asked for the Ministry's opinion, that the draft of the Law on indirect taxation established and respected all its suggestions, but then the second SNSD minister who was the legislator of this Law, Honorable Minister Tučić, has now already been the former minister, kicked out what Tegeltija and Špirić asked him to do. And then we actually came here in a situation where we're between hammers and anvils on both sides of the SNSD. That's why this situation is for us, we really think we should resolve it and leave it to someone else later, the future Council of Ministers to do it. Thank you. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5188	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5189	Well, look, very briefly. Mr Špirić was a member of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, present at this session of the Commission and had one extraordinary remark. He says this - that now is not the time, Milovanović can make amendments, but now is not the time to touch any jurisdiction, whether they move vertically or from entity to state, or from state to entity. That's why I'm saying we don't have a political environment for such a thing, it's better not to adopt such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5190	Thank you very much. Sir, Safet Demirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5191	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Since I have first applied for a discussion on the agenda, of course I want to wish us pleasant work, success in work and one general collegiation and correctness in work. What I can say for myself is that in my discussions, I will always be exact, brief, not to take up time. I am a member of this Commission and I believe this law is extremely good. And, I'm lucky to come from one firm, which is very much used, applies the legal provisions that are treated with this Act, means companies that are very much and exports and imports of various equipment. A few things in this law are very, very nicely processed, defined. First, from there criteria by accelerated, simplified customs clearance, then there treatment when equipment goes to work, whether in guarantee or out of warranty, then release from customs all equipment to be used in production. And what we had since last year, when we had humanitarian aid at the border, when we didn't know how to bring it in. I had also a few amendments to this Act, but they were more relevant to the practical segment than they were to the core and they were, they were referring to one thing that was very specific, or they were related to the calibration of laboratory equipment abroad, so where we don't have such authorized services or laboratories where these equipment could be adequately maintained. However, colleagues from the RS who were present that day at the session, under calibration, were undermining other things, from neither do I, the weapons and I, meaning that day I was suggested that if I wanted to refer these amendments to a regular procedure, it means today's debate, that I have a chance. Of course, not wanting and considering how important this law is, I'm not this one, in order not to have that extra mistrust, I didn't insist on these amendments. I still think it'd be good if it came in, but here. So, in order for there to be no more major passings, but given the importance of this Law, I gave up the investment of amendments. I think the law is good. In an operational sense, it makes it much easier for those who come from the real sector, who actually treat this law. 66 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5192	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 7th agenda. Ad.7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, of 8.1.2015. (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 8 January 2015, with a request for consideration under a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure. The proposed law is in accordance with Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure, immediately delivered to the legislative sector in order to give an opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions. On 12 January 2015, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion to the College on the basis of the corrections and the deficiencies observed in the Law Pridlog. On 19 January 2015, the Proposer submitted amendments to the Proposal for a Law. The College of the House shall be in accordance with Article 132(2). At its 3rd session, held on 15 January 2015, the Rules of Procedure discussed the request for a shortened procedure. The College did not accept the request and decided that the proposal for a law would be considered under the basic legislative procedure. As competent to consider the draft law, the Commission for Finance and Budget has been designated. The Constitutional Commission, Opinion on Constitutional Law, delivered its opinion on 28 January 2015. At the request of the Commission responsible for finance and budget, the draft law has been removed from the agenda of the 5th session of the House. The Commission requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Opinion on the Proposal for a Law and adopted the following conclusion. Conclusion – The Finance and Budget Commission of the Parliamentary House of Representatives postpones its statement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions and asks the Council of Ministers to submit a Opinion on the Bill of Law to the Commission within 10 days. The college approved a 10-day extension. The finance ministry and the BiH Treasury delivered an opinion on the bill on February 6th. On 10 February 2015, the Commission submitted its opinion on the principles. The Commission supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Sir, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5194	I was expecting that maybe the promoter would say something. If there's any need, here's me, come on, come on, come on, I'll go after the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5195	So, let's just introduce order. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want this opportunity to express my satisfaction with the fact that today we have a draft law on amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. Since this issue has indeed been extremely sensitive to the public, and the circumstances in which BiH is located, which are really difficult, is a major step in our belief, this House, in the direction of abolishing a privilege that can really be very difficult to justify. At the same time, it is a step towards savings, towards introducing practically one logic, a policy of saving in every place and no matter what the amount is about, where it can really be achieved and thus stimulate other levels in BiH, to accept this principle and to start thinking differently, given that time really forces us to change completely. As you have mentioned the decisions of the committees that have discussed this amendment to the law are something we must all be satisfied, since it has been established that the Constitution is founded, that it is not contrary to the legal system, that the Directorate of European Integration has obtained material that shows that it is not contrary to binding EU acts, then that the Finance and Budget Commission has given almost unanimous support to this law, because of all this and as I have said in the introduction, we express, or express our gratitude and satisfaction that we have the opportunity today to discuss this law, regardless of all the suggestions that have been heard during the debate, and regarding this Law. The law is very simple, by abolishing Article 48, the institute of white bread is abolished and, let me say, by not giving in more detail to the debate that in the time behind us, there were indeed completely strange and unusual, and even inappropriate ways of using such a provision. Since it's short, as I said, and a clear proposal that we've already discussed, there's no need to explain this law anymore. I want to invite all the colleagues who are here in the O.R. to support this law, and all of that, possibly if there is a need to build it up and build it up, that we have time and opportunity to complete it and build it up. However, I think that for the sake of a message to the public, it is extremely important that this House supports such a law, because if you followed what was on television, it is evident that the public can simply accept many other things and go over many other things that we think may not be right, but this is simply a hundred percent consent of all those who declare this, that this is something that is anachronous, that this is an abuse, that the effects of our work in the four-year term are not good, but there is still some flow that can pass, but here, for this year after that end of the term, they do nothing and they still get paid. But here, I say, I wouldn't get into it anymore. We had a chance to talk about all this. Once again, I thank and invite all my colleagues to support this law, which will be a clear and good signal that we will send to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5197	Thank you very much. The word has a gentleman, Saša Magazinović. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5198	Let's try to sort things out and try the seemingly simple law that I think I got involved with myself, untangle. First of all, as far as the promoter is concerned, I'll back this up and not talk about who's in favour, who's against it. However, I do not agree with your finding that the adoption of this Law abolishes the privilege of so-called. white bread. I want to explain. You have proposed the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions and it has its contents as you have suggested. The content of this Law is to delete Article 48. However, you have overlooked that in the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions other than the 48th member you are erasing, there are some other members dealing with the same topic, therefore the same privilege. And now we have a situation that we will adopt your law, and that privilege will remain in other members. Article 48 is a member who speaks more clearly of this privilege, but is not a member who determines the right to that privilege, but a member of 30. Article 30(1)(c) defines the right at the time of the extension of the working legal status of elected persons and appointed officials or in the people known as white bread. In order to eliminate the right to white bread, you should first delete this member that defines that right. In this way, this right remains in the Law and by deleting Article 48 you have simply deleted a member who is closer to defining how it is done. Also, Article 39a) says that everything that is not closer to the Law, which is contained as law in the Law, is declared by the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, which would mean if we adopt this Law. Here's what we're gonna adopt and I'm gonna vote for him, and that's what we agreed at first. This means that the compensation of white bread remains in the law, only that the Council does not go after automation, but the administrative decision is taken by the Administrative Commission, without the right to make it impossible for someone, because it gives them the right to do so. Now, there are a couple of ways to get out of this story. There is a variant that you continue through parliamentary procedure to push this law. We adopt it in the first reading, second reading comes, in the second reading we cannot change the effects of those members that are not subject to the Law. So in the second reading, we can't say, but now we're adding to erasing this member who's controversial, because it's not the subject of the law. And then we pass a law that hasn't essentially abolished that privilege. So one way is to keep pushing this. Another way is to withdraw this Act or I don't know what to do and make a law that, apart from Article 48, you will delete and part of Article 30 that defines that right. And such a law, as far as I'm concerned in the emergency procedure, push for the next session of Parliament, I don't think it will be adopted. But I invite you, and here we all are together, to deal with other laws that are potentially connected to this member of the law, and let's say that's the Law of Conflict of Interest. And here we talked about it because he has some members who are tied up and who are actually used as a reason or an excuse for the existence of this fee. So what I'm saying, I'm saying very well on purpose, to the promoter is how he's going to behave. Whatever you decide, I will support it. But if our goal is to really end this over-indulgence, we can't do it by adopting this law, we can do it to one of the modes that I've suggested to you. So, once again, it's up to you, you have my support for whatever you decide. 16:15:48----------------
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5199	Thank you, fellow Magazinović. Mr. Salko Sokolović answered for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5200	Thank you for your word, I welcome everyone present. Well, here's something like that I wanted to say, and since Mr Magazinović has already said the essence, I will only, in some way, give support or say what I have pointed out as a remark to the Finance and Budget Commission itself as a member and, as a member of that Commission. So, there is no dilemma in the SDA Club that we support one such initiative or an amendment to the Law of Salaries that will effectively abolish this extension of working-law status, but we would be pleased that by just one systemic approach we are solving everything that is the consequence or which could burden ourselves in the further procedure and implementation of this Act, i.e. the Members themselves or elected officials and the holders of functions now in some subsequent period, however, in some form of discrimination compared to others. I won't be talking here right now about the Law of Salaries and Articles 30 and 39a. What Mr Magazinović was talking about, I will now only be a little more specific about the possible discrimination that would occur if we did not resolve some of the things that are in line with this provision, which is Article 5, I will be precise, the Law on conflict of interest relating to elected officials, the holders of executive functions and advisers, and this also makes it impossible to establish a working relationship in certain cases six months after the end of public office. So we have to have that in our thoughts when we're making these legal solutions, so that we can have some kind of package in which we can systematically solve things. This, the pressure of the public is and should not, there is no, in my opinion, no doubt that we eliminate this extension of working-law status as a form, but it is very important that the proposalor or future Council of Ministers, here is how we agree here or define through some form of conclusion, so if it is the future Council of Ministers in a new meeting, then the Council of Ministers acts on Article 5. The Law on conflict of interest and eliminates this possible discrimination. And it is necessary, it is necessary that the proposer is immediately following the adoption of this Act to continue the activity of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions and eliminates, meaning that the existence of this fee in the law mentioned in order to prevent, in such a way, whether or not these negativity is possible negativity which Mr Magazinović spoke of. So, once again, the SDA Club will support this, this proposal in the first reading, we can't change it, this is what Magazinović said, to act on members who don't treat this Law, but here we want to help, suggest, follow and suggest that this story ends, that tomorrow we activate the Council of Ministers that through these other legal solutions that are in some correlation, correlation with this provision in Article 5. The law of conflict of interest that this provision is simply eliminated and that we do not come to some other kind of discrimination tomorrow, and it can obviously occur at this time unless we respond in time. But here we are, we're alive, we're gonna follow it, we can solve it, then let's get in, we're in the SDA Club proposing to get into this story, and if we follow it like we're talking about it now, we can bring it to a situation that can function in a satisfactory way, and that we're both MPs, or elected, appointed officials satisfied, and also give the citizens an answer to the questions they asked us a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5201	Thank you, Mr. Sokolović. Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5202	Thank you. Say hello to everyone again. ...when we act as executive and legislative authorities in some dilemma, we all have... and some intention to like the public, often this public is systematically documented, and on the other hand you have responsibility and you have systemicity, you should always choose. I repeat once again when something systematic is being delivered to the public, so when it is said... that 6.5 million savings, and then we get information from the Ministry of Finance where it is said that in 2013, it was 132,000, in 2014. - 172 thousand, when you have a review of it since 2008, and on the agenda you will have, for example, a review of it. The audit reports on impact audits, so you can see how much legal disputes are lost, and most of all from the labour law, and I have made a commitment, and even on this committee, the only one that I have proposed was one conclusion, all based on opinions given by the Ministry of Finance, and the Council of Ministers unanimously adopted after a long debate. And I think we're here at the Council of Ministers and politically different and all, but when you meet with the arguments then, I say, I've decided between this likeness and responsibility for responsibility and systematicity. I will say very briefly, I have suggested that we adopt the conclusion on the Committee – that a statement be postponed on this Bill proposal and that the council be in charge, the new Council of Ministers, be adopted within 60 days of the constitution of adoption of the Pay and Compensation Policy in BiH institutions for the period 2015. – 2018 means for the term of office and to submit, within the same period, amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in Institutions and other laws regulating the area of pay and compensation in BiH institutions. With respect to all speakers before, or esteemed representatives, the main one in this opinion set out by the Council of Ministers and delivered to parliamentarians and commissions is about to read. I'll repeat only the most important things and you need, I think I've paid attention and you're willing to whether or not you're going to pay attention and see if anything works out and then there's damage through these trials, I'll just say a few things. So I warn you of the provisions of Article 5. The law on conflict of interest relating to elected officials, executives and advisers, which prevents the establishment of a working relationship in certain cases 6 months after the public office ceased, I think Mr. Magazinović correctly said that. I remind you that the provisions of Article 9(2) are still in force. The BiH constitution, which prescribes, regulates wage-related treatment. I think it would be good, which I am through a conclusion that has not been supported by any member of the commission should be systematic, because it is constantly being systematic, so we have seen today's exposés of respected colleague and friend Denis Zvizdić, that we should work systematically. And we thought it was simple policy to pay and compensation that was made as a document, but it wasn't fair that this Council of Ministers adopted it, but we could have done it, but I think it's fair to leave it, as well as the budget is left to the new Council of Ministers so that we don't create some things that will just drag us away from time. Also extended labour law status can be implemented in the system of planned amendments to the Payments Act, and this would allow with this document and the comprehensiveness and consistency of several laws regulating the area of pay and compensation... It is also proposed to delete, and I think it is the same as one of the previous words, erasing only Article 48, and the same problem is treated in Article 30 and Article 39 of the applicable text of the law. We simply believe, I think, personally, that there are simply no legitimate reasons for a partial solution that can only lead to things that will certainly not be obtained by these declared and in the public stated mathematical gathering if everyone would take it, because there, if it were 71 so long and it would be 6.5 million, I simply think you don't have to respect any of the things done by the Council of Ministers, at least carefully read and see if the call was made, it wasn't the opinion of the Ministry of Finance but the opinion, meaning a unanimous decision by the Council of Ministers, which made that opinion an act by the Council of Ministers. Here's what I wanted to explain, warn, and that's all I have to say, and I doubt, as well as the Committee's argument, I'll rarely have a chance because someone needs to be liked between, I said between liking and accountability and systematicity, I choose this second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5203	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Borislav Bojić, and then the first deputy chairwoman, Mrs. Krišto, will address, so you who are already lined up will be so. Mr. Bojić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5204	Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen and I would like a few sentences about the law in question and what I want to say at the very beginning, uh, to absolutely agree with what Mr. Saša Magazinović said, because it is simply everything he has just said is a fact. So, the undeniable thing is that this issue needs to be resolved systemically, just as counterpart Bevanda said, even though we would like to look for points in public to make a populist approach to this, then we could all be... we're all for cutting wages and when we get this regulation now, it's actually going to be that we've done everything we can to avoid a reduction. Now I don't know if this is a designed activity to not pass a regulation that will define the issue of abolishing the so-called. white bread. Maybe that was the aim of the promoter, if that's what this is about, then we're just going to get it as a result of the vote on this law itself. I join all those who have said that this really needs to be resolved systematically and I am very grateful to the Council of Ministers in the opinion given to us in which exactly the tax rules that define this area, the strategy that has been done, and it is very correct that the same Council of Ministers did not let it into parliamentary proceedings at the end of its term, but said – please continue this activity to be done exactly as it should, therefore, responsibly and not populistly. And I agree that way to approach this problem. Of course, I'll say a few more sentences, but let me just say how it's possible to solve this question. It is possible for one conclusion, here I will try, of course, and I am ready to make adjustments to this conclusion among other things, and he would say this – to task the Council of Ministers to prepare and refer to the procedure of making amendments to the whole of the legislation, and not to this kind of partial that will not solve this problem, which concerns the obligations and rights of appointed and elected persons, so to obligations and rights. What offends me very much, I must say, is that here very often there is a question of alleged privileges in the media, as if here we have elected representatives come here for two days and make huge money. It is as if there are no other obligations of MPs and take the right to comment on those who do not know what the work of a parliamentarian is and how it comes to Parliament at all. This kind of humiliation of parliamentarians by the media has started to bother me very much, and I have to say that we should in some way turn people away, first of all I see that a number of people who are completely uninvited that they are coming to Parliament at all, that they are not just coming here and that 72 are not working here one day during the session, that we have our obligations at the base and that there are important means for a Parliamentarian who, among other things, is where he comes from, to carry out a lot of activities such as public events in which we participate, many different events in which, as public elected representatives, should first of all contribute to these events. Who says, let's say for example. that we shouldn't have one of the colleges, whether it's a philosophical, legal or otherwise, to allow these students to come here to the Parliamentary Assembly and actually look at how parliamentary life is going. Do we have the means as MPs to allow my voter to come and see how that and what parliamentarians do as a commission, because that -- is that what we can afford? We can't. So, can we from the MPs, the elected representative, have what we need to be, be an institution. Because here I consider myself an institution chosen by a number of citizens who represent their interests, not to be represented here in a way in the media like I've been sitting here for two days and that's why I get huge money. Which, of course, isn't true, and I don't want anyone to put me in a plane like I'm some kind of troublesome person here and like I don't know or I don't know, and that's how they treat everyone. And really now, in the media today, go out to the street and let some of the reporters say what you think about politicians, what do you get in response? They're all thieves. I'm not a thief, and I don't want anyone calling me a thief, and I don't let anyone call me a thief, especially because I've taken on certain privileges that don't belong to me. On the contrary, there is a law for me, and so exists for each other. With that I would continue with this conclusion, I apologize for this revolt of mine, and my revolt refers to that the public is simply now orchestrating towards elected people's representatives, and if we were to say now, we reject that kind of approach, it would, I don't know what it would look like. I am, I support the reduction and I support the Racio, I support the approach that will allow it to all come down into those frameworks that need to be conscious. And we need to share fate with our people and with our citizens, it's not a questionable thing, but we need to do it in a way that can provide what is the real goal and I believe that the promoter and had a real goal of reducing privileges. But who, I repeat again, needs to define both the issue of obligations and attachments and first of all obligations, and second of all, the responsibility. This is where the matter turned, first it's about what it's all about, nobody's saying there's any obligation when it comes to us elected MPs. When it comes to including, among other things, the Law on Payments and Compensations in BiH institutions, but certainly the Law on Conflict of Interests which also defines this question, which was referred to by colleagues Magazinović and colleagues Bevanda, and the sublegal acts resulting from them, inter alia, the Regulation on Labour of Administrations, etc., the Regulation on benefits for interresor working bodies, commissions, etc., the Regulation on the supply and use of official cars, and the like, are all things that are a racer related to various privileges that have been chosen and appointed representatives. If so, then why not give the Council of Ministers the opportunity, then let's complement that proposal as the Proposer himself has said. Now we would adopt one legal solution, how to supplement it, it is not possible to supplement it at all in the parliamentary procedure cannot possibly be complemented at all. You can't apply the amendment to the basic course, does the basic text not contain what should be contained, just a colleague Magazinović was talking about that I don't repeat members of the law, it's not possible to change the content at all now. We cannot now act in amendment to this text because we would practically go with a completely different legal solution. Therefore, I think that this kind of conclusion would be quite enough and, of course, to explain to the public that we are in favour of reducing the scope, but we are in order to define its obligations precisely and, of course, to establish the rights and that these rights are within the frameworks which BiH can simply bear, it is, in my opinion, a rational approach. 73 I am sorry that I may have been so engrossed and perhaps in some way and turned my attention to it, but I hope that we will finally get support in the sense that this fact and attitude towards people who have been chosen and appointed at all in the institutions of any level of government in the media is really something that I do not want to reconcile with and agree to that we are so characterized as trying by some media in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto has her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5206	Thank you very much. Here I will try to make a brief review of the law on amendments, amendments to the Law on Salary, but here I am pleased to hear from the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here who have in some way discussed the issue of this Law, which in some ways changed the debate in relation to those views we had in committees, at least when it comes to the Constitutional Commission. I've been discussing this Law in about this way, and by the attitudes that my colleagues have now made and, of course, after that, some kind of media, media exposure, I'd say, the link is that I'm someone who's against this kind of law that's against the authority of these and those, some of the benefits that the elected officials have. And that attitude that I've expressed today, and here I'm going to do it here and that I've been saying before, I'm standing on it that it's not about the law that contributes to savings, that it's not about the system law, that this law is about order and other laws and that, indeed, it's about respecting maybe even the conclusions, etc. this, these laws can indeed be systematically solved by a proposing such as the institution of the Council of Ministers. And I'm glad that in some way here's all this stuff written together and made here in this opinion that we have in front of us. So I'm also going to say that there are both moral and justifiable reasons for dealing with these issues and other issues that are being imposed, to say, in terms of rationality and savings and efficiency, and not just to serve in the context of some current, I'd say, media-political events in this difficult community reality. I therefore support this opinion by the Council of Ministers on this issue, which really points to one right direction that should be taken if we would like to fully resolve this issue, and even if we touch those issues and social and social responsibilities when it comes to accessing salaries and fees in BiH institutions. I want to remind all of us again in some way to be truly consistent, to respect the principles and principles of every matter, including this. Because here, once again, I will point out, so the Ministry of Finance has prepared an opinion which has delivered to the Council of Ministers for adoption, the policy actually pays and fees in institutions for the period 2015 to 2018, I believe that the views mentioned in this opinion are appropriate and that they are indeed the starting point for resolving this issue and that they clearly speak of the restrictive application of that right in terms of either scope or length of duration. Also, the fact must not be ignored, means that the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest have direct touch points with this Act, as regards the working-law status of some persons, and the opinion also clearly states that the adoption of this proposed law would constitute a partial solution which would be inconsistencies with some other provisions of that law. So the question arises, indeed, which is the purpose of passing this law. I'll make only one comparison, last night I also saw two courts on TV when it came to law enforcement, anti-corruption laws, where 74 were in some way all embarassed, so whoever would be against such laws was viewed in another way as to support corruption and crime. So I would really wonder if that and now the situation in which we are in, where the jurisdiction from the level of municipal courts has been transferred to the courts in BiH, so the courts in matters of serious criminal offences are being advertised, and in the context of that, a colleague has said whether and when it comes to this law, it is true that this matter is not being entered in one systematic way. So once again, we all need to have room for this, to settle this issue, to have room for savings in BiH, and not to waste money, and to in some way to ensure and facilitate the life of all the peoples and citizens of BiH. I will therefore support all those solutions and those conclusions that are consistent, and I personally think that it is the Council of Ministers' institution that can really address this problem in a real, rational, consistent and consistent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5207	I thank Mrs. Krišto. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5208	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm without a doubt in favour of something called abolishing what doesn't belong to you for your real work. And so I will no matter how you do, you will, if you keep him I'll vote yes, I'll tell you straight away. But now you have dilemmas, conflict of law. If we intend to go into something called restrictions, we must change the whole set of laws that bind to this Law at the same time. I'll navesti you a few examples, if a man is elected to the free elections and sits here, maybe it applies even to a colleague to you, a respected lawyer, he comes from institutions, he can't go back to work for six months, read the law, can't go back to his job. If the company, the company in which someone was possibly employed by circumstances, participates in a public tender and gets the job, the one who's been here for the next six months can't go back to his firm, he can't. It's two small and tiny examples, I can go further, deeper, because it's not just the Law of Conflict of Interest, it's a series of laws that we have to change to get to the bottom of this. I agree... I have never publicly used it, with Mrs. Borjan I was together in the Federal Parliament, I have never been a professional, I haven't used it, but let's not make a mistake in order, so we don't now pass a law that we won't normally be able to apply. I suggest, so right now, I point out again, I'm in. The political option BPS – Sefer Halilović is in favour and therefore he is in favour and he will insist on it, but we must also insist that the whole set be changed and that what Mr Bojić was saying is still a matter of atmosphere that people are not unemployed here. That here the vast majority of people here who want to do their job with honor, fair, correct, that the thing is that it's not a bark lying around to eat you and someone giving you something like that. I suggest you withdraw or if you stay on this to seek a break and I don't know how the amendment is going to be now, is it possible at all, you yourself act amendmentically to comply with this Law as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5209	Thank you very much. 75 Mr. jasmin Emrić answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5210	Very briefly, several views on SBB's proposal to amend the law in question. On the occasion, I was in a position to declare in the Cantonal Assembly the same law, that is, in the days of the protest, we were able to listen to the Protestants and that their explicit law in the late hours of the night, on their express request in the late hours, we make a decision to give up so on. white bread, then they were satisfied with our decision. I think that we are still on the same page today because the demands of the Protestants were in the majority, in most parts of BiH similar or almost identical. I take this proposal as a single message to us in this House of Representatives, that we have received all these requests, not one request, this one was on the target of the Protestants, the citizens were only looking at it because it was introduced, but it was also a far greater number of other requirements which, I'm sure, could contribute to what we want to achieve, which is savings in budgets. And we, when we accept this request, and I expect that we will systematically face all other situations where real savings can be made. We have instruments at our disposal that can lead to order in the governance structures of public enterprises and institutions where real analysis and real savings can be considered, there are those savings that we can achieve, here are symbolic amounts that God does not know how to help BiH citizens in their very difficult lives because they do not have a job. And that is why this situation is very complex because on the one hand we have a proposal that is in collegiate with the legal solutions that we have had the opportunity to hear on the Commission for Finance and Budget. And why do we have these colics? Because the Council of Ministers has not responded, in my opinion, to a timely and systematic solution of the problem, and therefore, it is likely that the SBB Club has been offered these requirements with its proposal and today we are in the situation in which we are. Since we want to give the public a message that we have considered their demands, that we are willing to face and address other requirements that are present, that I do not elaborate them now, that I will support the proposal and this solution, although there is justification for this compensation provided for those who, after the end of the term of office, do not have a job or their engagement will be prevented unless this problem is essentially solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5211	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5212	I thank the chairman. Therefore, estimating indeed fellow SBB colleagues and their proposal to regulate this issue and in fact respond to one current political moment in BiH the social situation in society, on the basis of what they have proposed as part of the opposition, and on the proposal of one other part of the opposition, it would be best for me to accept this proposal by our colleagues and to support it and to find a solution from all this discussion that we have conducted today. And why, here with a few sentences would support it the following way, so their ex-con colleague used this benefit, so here we know what happened to her status in the party, but you might not have wondered if she had any other solution. So maybe there'll be more people, well I don't know, so maybe there'll be more people in our assembly or those who can use this to have no other solution than that. And if you can find both the savings and the other way we have the next point so you'll see just for example that 76 didn't pay in time what the court ruled out, so the interest it only pays, it's far more than we'll get with this if these data, and we believe that they are, from the Council of Ministers, correct. Perhaps, by estimating what you might have wanted, you could have approached this in the following way by me, I've been dealing with you this informally, that perhaps you could have gone to a solution to the time of use of that right or money, so maybe there could have been some solution here that it doesn't have to be that some of us now think or the public that it's enormously high, unnecessary, maybe somewhere on that trail you could find a solution to be in a shorter period of time, in some smaller amounts, let's say the average salary, say 50% of what is now belonging. It's just this way of thinking out loud or maybe you haven't thought about how many of us or people who have the right to use it, so for the last maybe six months or a year spend on putting themselves somewhere, if they don't have a job after that, they're going to do themselves instead of what they're supposed to do. So, maybe all of this should be taken into account, and I think the most elegant solution is to get out of this, what Saša might have suggested together with Mr. Bojić, it's here somewhere, if it can be accepted, if not our position is known, we have already, as Mrs. Borjana has said, experienced a public story against our views in committees, but about that. So, we want a lot to get rid of it, we're definitely going to be part of the solution, and I'd like it to be systematic. Thank you very much. ---16:34---- 16:49:34
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5213	Thank you. Mr. Senad Šepić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5214	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. So I support this proposal by proposing, I don't think there's anyone here among us who could have some kind of negative relationship with this idea that's basically office. I call on them to support today and accept what is possible, so today I accept from these suggestions, and my suggestion goes to this suggestions for Bojić's conclusion perhaps. I think this is one of the most qualitative conclusions that will help us get a better solution, just to time-limit it, maybe tell Bojić it's a month, to do this now by the Council of Ministers, or let's say he does it at the first sessions of the new Council of Ministers, but to install it somewhere for 30 days, 60 days, but I think it should be time-limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5215	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5216	I thank you, Chairman. 77 So we respect the suggestion of a respected colleague named Šepić. Of course, this refers to the new Council of Ministers, because counterpart Bevanda who was here already said it would be unprincipled and this will be a task for the new Council of Ministers to do. Here we'll accept, we don't know when they'll be established, so it's a shame to say they have 60, but here's the day of the constitution to have four, how many, if it's four months enough for them to do all this, because, there's a lot of sublegal acts, that's the point. So it's not a simple job at all, if we want to do it quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very esteemed, I believe in the honest intention of the promoter and I believe in your good intentions, to approach final rationalisation in terms of spending the funds, as it begins with the Parliamentary Assembly, I hope the other state bodies as well. I just want to remind myself of the fact that as a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the past term and as a member of the Administrative Commission together with my colleague Sarajlić, including several colleagues who discussed here today, spoke similar things, we negotiated similar things in the past term. Even in the Federation Parliament, along with my colleague Duvnjak, I was exposed to convictions to speak populistly, when I spoke with my colleague Duvnjak to reduce the salary of representatives in the Federation Parliament five years ago. Maybe so some appreciate this SBB request that it's populist, I don't think, I'm not one of those who's courting the public, but I want to say that now I'm particularly happy that in the last term I was against the Law of Conflict of Interest and that I didn't vote for it. So time has shown that it is a missing law, so whether we want to agree to it or not, we know how he was brought under a terrible pressure by unprincipled lobbying, he had shortcomings back then. We have also pointed out this article, which is mentioned here today, this Article 5, several times. And what I particularly frequently pointed to was the fact that when it comes to the salaries of MPs, it is also necessary to talk about the salaries of the complete Council of Ministers and people in the shadows, which are advisers, assistants and advisers. Only parliamentarians are exposed to the public. Among parliamentarians are mostly very, very highly educated people who did not, in principle, come here by chance, but behind them are years of education. So I remind media representatives that much higher wages have advisers, many advisers they don't see, whose names they don't know, who are at the same time members of several different boards of directors and supervisors, commissions, councils, ad. I want a commission and everything. So I spoke very often and recently made one of these statements. Let me say, here we go, let's do the rationalization, but starting with the suspension, here's Article 48, but also systematically to do the rest of the sublegal acts. And I fully agree with Mr. Magazinović's proposal, with his discussion, and with the proposal for Mr. Bojić's conclusion. But I pray that if we train strictness and I am for that strictness, I am very strict because I am an anesthesiologist by profession and I am very precise, then let's penetrate the structures that are not visible to the public, so in the Council of Ministers, in assistants, eternal assistants, let's cross over, let's give the initiative to finally re-election the assistants. Why are assistants eternal, untouchable, and constant? Even when your job is not doing well, because it is scandalous that you have phenomena, that you have an assistant minister who, for the very important European laws that are BiH's first obligation in the process of gaining EU candidate status, claim they have never heard them. Everything scandalous. So, with discipline training 78 out of these cups, which I am, I'm all for it, because I don't think we should be too different from the people we represent, I'm asking that all changes concern the Council of Ministers. What particularly bothers me is membership in certain ad.hocc commissions, very often only a certain number of MPs have been subscribed to the ad.hocc commissions forever. I propose that the ad.hocc commission and all other committees in which BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs work at work, firstly that the commissions work within Parliament's building, that there are no more Neum, Jahorina, Ilija and everything else, today I spoke about it on the Committee on Gender Equality, that I simply do not agree to be a representative who will be evaluating previous laws and new activities brought back within the hotel rooms of any hotel or restaurant in BiH. Let us return the discussion to Parliament, it is much cheaper, more appropriate, more effective. Secondly, let's give up the fees for work in the ad.hocc commissions since they're working hours, and taking care of the fact that we're still getting a hot meal fee, then the fact that we should be at work here every day, so it's inappropriate to charge our work in the ad.hoc commissions at work time. So, it would be regulated by the sublegal acts Mr Bojić said in his proposal. I have repeatedly discussed the unnecessary purchase of new cars in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I think I have been sanctioned in a certain way in a material sense for this, I am not sorry at all. I think it's very irrational to spend, not knowing who has the right to an official car, I think again protected members of the Council of Ministers, assistants, deputies and advisers, and needlessly parliamentarians are exposed to too strict criticism of the public, at least in the segment of these, the use of official vehicles we know that parliamentarians do not have the rights to them. Therefore, highly esteeming the good intentions of SBB colleagues together with the same goal, believing that we all want to look the same to be like the people we represent and to finally start streamlining the spending of funds, and to rent the space spent by BiH institutions, there are the biggest donations, let us return the discussion of everything here to the parliamentary benches, let us do a systematic amendment of the law. And once again I express my sincere satisfaction for this unfortunate law of conflict of interest which is my own opposite, I did not vote, and I will be very pleased when the day comes that this law will be changed if Bog changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5219	Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5220	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think we should pass this law today, so any other decision would be wrong. It's about the law in first reading. I think the public rebel against this privilege is justified and it was created when it came, not because this privilege was prescribed but when there was an abuse of this privilege. It cannot be justified for the minister to be elected, to be minister for 3 months, and to receive the same salary after that for a year. We've had it in several cantons, we've had it in several cases, it's awakened the public's interest outside this institute, and I don't think we have any other way out but to vote for this. 79 I also have a view of the overall situation and I suggest that we vote today on this law in the first reading and adopt it. There's a later second reading, an amendment phase, which we'll see, so, as a principle, I think this House should back it up. What I'm thinking, I'm about to say what I think is on the trail of what we as Dom did here in the last term. As the House, we passed the Law amending the Law on Salaries and said that the highest salary in BiH could be 5 average salaries and that these are members of the BiH presidency. All salaries must be below that, secondly, the Council of Ministers, members of Parliament, etc., we have stepped somewhere on coefficient 4 as far as I know, when it comes to Members of Parliament, with no breaks. When we set things up like that and when we adopt it, then we'll be able to solve this institute in the right way. And as far as I'm concerned, this institute should be exorcised, so it needs to be set up, exorcised, not in general, for people who work the entire mandate and who have a certain number of years of internships, should, in the light of the conflict of interest, provide a certain amount of time and with the help of this institute, but not by stimulating it to receive that fee all the time. It can't be a full pay, it can be social security and maybe one average salary for a few months, just enough to keep it going, not to be thrown out on the street, but detimulatively to be stimulated to look for a job. And this is how they've been receiving for a year, and no one's looking for a job and those who've only been three months, not a full term. So this rightfully caused the public to revolt, and I suggest that the House accept this today in its first reading, and only when we come into the situation of paying in BiH to be reduced, to bring into what this dom has already done in these frameworks can we only talk about nuance when it comes to this institute. That's it, thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5221	Thank you. I'll be very brief. When the story started about this law in the means of information was one article for former MPs who used this right and all of them said that this wasn't humane, that this wasn't like time, or space, or moment, but all of them used that right. And the other thing, there's a new moment coming up, we've got some modernism, these people want to be slaves, so they take it from the state, and they share it to the people. I think it all indicates that this current law should be amended, yes, it does mean that this right is abolished, but of course with respect to all these suggestions regarding the procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5222	Thank you. No more, and there is, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5223	I thank the chairman. It's also very short. I think that citizens are absolutely justifiably revolved by the fee that is given, so after someone finishes their term in this House and in the period when that 80 person does not work, by definition, because the fee is for a period when the person is not employed. So the compensation is indeed for one period when a person does nothing, not just in Parliament, but nothing. And when it comes to this, someone said parliamentarians are an institution, I think that parliamentarians will be an institution at least in the eyes of citizens only after they show empathy towards these citizens only after they show that they are willing to give up such privileges. It's only then that we can claim to be an institution at all. But I think as long as such privileges exist that we cannot be an institution in the eyes of citizens. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5224	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Since no one's answering their words anymore, I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight of the Ad.8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić for the debate on the information provided on the initiative of Senad Šepić of 55th session of the Representative's House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare, in co-operation with the entity, cantonal and government of the Brcko District of BiH, a proposal for systematic insurance of equal regional development and investment in BiH and delivers it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration", No. 01-50-1106/14 of 26.09.2014 This is about the Commission's report from the Collegis of the last House of Commons. In fact, MP Senad Šepić asked us to make a statement once on the proposal for a conclusion regarding his initiative on which the Collegij Dom from the previous call did not reach agreement. The 73rd meeting of the House on 25 September 2014 discussed the information provided by the BiH Council of Ministers and the Federation of BiH government in order to realise the parliamentary initiative. In the context of the debate, the conclusion set out in this item of the agenda has been proposed. So the debate is closed, and the proposal for a conclusion will be made later in the second round of voting. We're going to the point of the nine agenda, so that's Ad.9. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Finance Commission report and the Budget on the Amendments and Supplements Law on Payments and other fees in BiH's Court and Prosecutorial Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-131/14 of 22.07.2014, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked by the Council of Ministers to draw up a Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments and Other Restitutions in the Court and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would equalise the amount of monetary compensation received by professional staff in the judicial and prosecutor's institutions on the basis of the rights of vacation with respect to the amount of financial and pensions in accordance with the Bosnia and Herzegovina's annual law on the basis of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in accordance with the terms of the Bosnia and Bosnia's annual law, in accordance with the Bosnia and Bosnia-H.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. First of all, I want to commend this material that the Office of Audit has done. In view of the frequent conclusions made in the previous period, which were in principle not always related to the implementation of recommendations by the Office for Audit and the observed shortcomings most often or very slowly removed or not at all removed in the following period, and considering which way we might be serious later, so when this Report passed, the institutions listed here are serious because of the real serious gaps that result in huge money. In fact, we could see here that only in the last three years BiH has failed to achieve 70 million KM revenue just because certain control-related jobs have not been done in due time, i.e. they have not respected certain recommendations, but even in the extended deadlines given by the Council of Ministers, the institutions have failed to finish their work. In addition, entity budget expenditure would have been lower by 24 million if the job had been done in due time. Still, it states what will happen if the issue, i.e. this process of taking control of BiH's air co-operation, is not done urgently. Therefore, having regard to the above mentioned and respecting Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose that the House make a decision today and that a public hearing be held by representatives of BHANSA, BHDC and the Council of Ministers of BiH, with regard to the failures which have resulted in non-recovery of income, avoidance of additional expenditure, and 83 reduction of expenditure mentioned in the Report on the impact audit carried out on the topic "Air Traffic Control". The public hearing would take place within 30 days after the hearing has been delivered to Dom. One member that I have cited in the decision, which does not have to be, is that the College of the House of Representatives will act in accordance with Article 40(3) in the realization of the decision. It is understood, therefore, that the College will do so in accordance with this article, so this member of the decision can also be deleted, if the College considers it, and of course the College decides which commission will do so. I propose that it be the Transport and Communications Commission of the House of Representatives, given that this is, in fact, a problem in the competence of this Commission. I will make this proposal to multiply for the other fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5233	I would just like to ask you, thank you, you should give, therefore in this proposal, because the House College will vote on it, informs the Commission which is set for the hearing, and the House's decision contains the subject of the hearing, the names of the person who needs to be called, the time limit for the hearing. So, you have to have all of this in that proposal that you're about to deliver to us now, so just before it goes down here, if it has everything there is, if you don't add that we have it in full in accordance with Article 40(3). Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, let's move on. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5234	I thank you, Chairman. As Honorable counterpart Novaković said, we lost 70 million of income, 3 million for schooling controllers, 24 million for this impact review lost entity budgets, so 97 million marks. And in doing so, in this institution, do you know how many salaries there have, and here are the distinguished colleagues from the SBB, the people sitting there in these institutions? And no one controls them, absolutely no one, and in that 2014 budget they had 30 million, for 2015 33.5 million, they have 88 employees as I see from this impact review. So we've lost 97 million, people who are much more paid than both officials and MPs and anyone here. And do you know what they've been doing over the years, and that's unfortunately in this impact review? In 2009, 6 members of BHANSA Air Navigation Service Service Board were appointed for a period of 4 years. And to them, the ministry of co-operation has launched activities twice, sent to the Council of Ministers to name new people, not appointed. BHANSA administration appointed for 6 months V.D. In 2010, they weren't elected to this day. In doing so, I can't even choose them because for a year and a half after the contest, they can't open the envelopes because the Council of BHANSA and the Council of Ministers made them competition commissions, election commissions, and now they don't know who should open the envelopes for two years. So we have one institution that is literally renegade, no one is responding, no account is being filed, has huge resources, and for the whole of them, the entire BiH state is suffering additional damage. Here's the simple math says 97 million marks of damage. Since it is a public institution, a public institution, I would ask my colleagues for support, when this impact review says that this is the state of affairs there, to enter into the financial audit for the past year, I can imagine what we will find here. I would therefore ask, if at all possible, that the Office for Audit, although they have already made a plan for their activities for 2015, will also introduce a financial audit for 2014 of the Aviation Services Agency. Thank you. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5235	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5236	Mr. Chairman, it's not a replica, but I didn't know which button to push, and let me ask you that since there are now some misunderstandings after what you said as chairman. According to the Rules of Procedure, I have to deliver the subject of the hearing, which is in the decision, the names of the person. Look, I'm the one who listed the institution. So, I don't know who BHANSA's director is or who BHDC's director is, but that's why I listed BHANSA, BHDC, and I listed the Council of Ministers, or Resort Ministry. They are listed in this Audit Report as an institution. Is that enough or do I have to ask myself in the meantime who the directors are so we can call them?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5237	Faces can be both legal and physical. Therefore, you will specify what you stated. So you've listed some faces, you've listed legal faces, so you have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5238	That's what I said, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5239	Mr. Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5240	Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that my colleague Pandurević with this much energy did not defend the Air Force Act, i.e. the proposal to amend and supplement the Air Force Act which was in fact editing these problems that these officials of that kind are making, but I guess we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. This is now the answer to the replica, as far as I can tell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5242	So, as far as I'm concerned, from what I've been around asking who these people are, it's interesting that they're really a colleague, the same problems people have. Volunteer, counsellor at the head of this Council, so you can't move him, and then he sends this bill yesterday on, you said that the Ministry did it to the Law on, exactly, what it was called, bond relations, not bond relations. The man suggests that we build a new institution for something we already have 85 and that we just need a different maybe a little bit of that stuff. So, to me, and this morning I asked the parliamentary question of the minister, again the same man who signed the agreement on behalf of BiH without the commission's consent. Many individuals, individuals, look out for one individual you have in five places that cause enormous damage to the entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5243	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5244	Thank you. So, I hope Miss Pandurević won't be mad at me, but I didn't get such an impression that only the people of these two agencies in this audit report were guilty. I think there's a lot of wrongs here, and maybe even a part of Parliament, at least in the last session, that I don't blame myself right now, right? But these two reports have opened many eyes to me and I support them and thank them for what Mr. Novaković said. I might as an alternative, because even when I was preparing I did not know that Mr. Novaković would propose such a decision I would suggest one conclusion, so which would say: The House of Representatives requests information from the Council of Ministers at the end of each quarter on the progress of the process of taking control of the BiH airspace until this obligation is realised. Here's what I'd suggest as a conclusion, so let the colleagues come to terms with what's more acceptable, a public hearing or this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5245	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? If no one answers for a word anymore, then just one little clarification for Mr. Novaković. I'm closing the argument, so this is it. So here it says exactly in this point b) of the face. I mean, it's undetermined, so the names don't even say face names, but you're going to specify what you're going to say and then we're going to make a decision here together at the House, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5246	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5247	Before we move to the 15th point, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 15 to 27 of the agenda, because it is about giving consent and ratification of material. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Prepare to vote, vote now. 86 So, with 31 votes to, 1 against, without abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have decided to bring together the debate on points 15 to 27. Ad.15. - 27. Giving consent and ratification of materials I'm opening a debate. The Commission's opinion has been given to each of these points. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. This way we've exhausted all the agenda points that are scheduled for today's session. How long does it take to vote, to prepare? We'll leave 15.00 minutes then. So you see now, we continue at 17.35, now it's 17.20, we continue at 17.35. Thank you. The vote at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-11-1.u5252	A public hearing of representatives of BH ANSA, BH DCA and the Council of Ministers of BiH will be held, and with regard to the misdemeanors which have resulted in non-recovery of revenue and avoidance of additional expenditure, as well as the reduction of expenditure mentioned in the report on the impact audit on the subject of " BiH Air Traffic Control". 2. The College of the House of Representatives will be in.... Decisions to comply with Article 40(3) The Rules of Procedure of the House and the public hearing will be held as paragraph 3 within 30 days after the hearing will be delivered to the House. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, without prejudice, five abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has made this decision. We are voting on the proposal to conclude MP Nikola Lovrinović. The conclusion is: The BiH Council of Ministers' House requests information at the end of each quarter on the progress of the process of taking control of the BiH airspace until this obligation is realised. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 32 votes for, without votes against and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has adopted, therefore, and this conclusion. The vote is now on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević, which reads: The House of Representatives asks the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions to make a financial audit for 2014 of BH ANSA's Air Navigation Agency. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, without prejudice, four abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I also find that this conclusion has been adopted. We're voting on the adoption of the Audit Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, without prejudice, 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that a review report has been adopted. 91 Let's go to point 15, but before we go to the vote, I would like to put the motion to vote on points 15 to 27 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have decided to vote on points 15 to 27 in the package. We now vote on points 15 to 27 giving consent to ratification of the agreement, points 15 to 27 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 votes for, without and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has given its consent to ratify the agreement on points 15 to 27 of today's agenda, today's session of the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the House of Representatives, noting that the next House session is planned for February 26, 2015. Thank you for your cooperation, goodbye. 26 February 2015 Session completed at 6:03 p.m.
