ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6627	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 13th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, the Central Election Commission of BiH, the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, the BiH Ombudsman's institution, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Communications Regulatory Agency, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. I have no notice of a leave from today's session. No Niko announced a leave in advance. He's currently in the 37-seat room. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, and in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow MPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Šemsudin Mehmedović, Minister of Security, the announcement of the issue was sent in preparation for the 10th session of the House, but then no answer was given in oral form and it was found that the answer would be requested at the first next session of the House to ask questions in oral form, and there is another question, that is, for today's session, the issue of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. So that Mr. Mehmedović will be able to ask both questions today, and what was before and today, if he wants to, should he choose himself; Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers; Salko Sokolović, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security; Aleksandra Pandurević, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; Amir Fazlić, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Civil Affairs; Maja Gasal-Vražalica, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Economic Relations; Senad Šepić, chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Nermina Kapetanović, BiH Minister of Civil Affairs; Predrag Kožul, chairman of the Council of BiH and Staš Košarac, chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I am informing you that he is still in the PIC session where he is present as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and he asked me to pass this notice on to you and asked that if it is possible for him to wait until he arrives, he does not finish that PIC session, of course, unless someone else is giving two answers to the questions asked in front of the Council of Ministers. With each question, I will therefore ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers about who will answer. So these announcements are in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. And once again, I would like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, and in accordance with Article 171(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Now we can start by setting up the orals, Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6628	In the 08th, I handed over the parliamentary question and said that I wanted to ask it orally and I don't see that you've read me. It says 24 hours earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6629	Thank you very much, Mr. Backović. I'm asking services to check what's going on with this request from Mr. Backović. We're moving on now. So now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. The word is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. As the chairman noted, I still expect an answer to my parliamentary question asked at the 1st session in April, which concerns holding at the Immigration Centre of a person for about 7 years without any appearance of what in the legal sense means and when this person's agony called Imad al Huseini will end. It's the only person who's been there for the seventh year and I shouldn't get an answer the way I got that person under that name and that name doesn't exist in the jurisdiction of the Foreign Affairs Agency. Therefore, I expect a further answer to this parliamentary question. My question today is the chairman of the Council of Ministers and, of course, indirect director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency. It is known in the media that there has been a case of corruption reporting in BiH institutions, more specifically in the Return Fund, which is under the direct authority of the Council of Ministers. Namely, Irina Lovrić is as the first protected declareer of corruption,... protected from the consequences, which is why she survived a terrible torture at the workplace and today struggles with the person she reported and by which she suffered a physical attack, which in itself implies the perpetrator's suspension until the end of the procedure. On the contrary, face, i.e. The Director of the Agency or the Return Fund, which is responsible for the Council of Ministers, is still doing the same job today after two mandates, although the alleged perpetrator of corruption, but also a person with violent methods, does not allow the normal work of the notifier under the protection of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and is struggling with all the consequences. I therefore ask the question of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers – How long will such a person do such a responsible job and act against all legal and moral norms, and why is it not acted in this case by law and by all other civil servants. And, of course, to the Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Combating 3 Corruption – What does the status of a protected declareer of corruption mean and what degree of protection it is, that is, what kind of consequences the applicant may have, and what is the message with this case and the bh public, as well as potential perpetrators of corruption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6631	Thank you very much. In front of the Council of Ministers, the word has the Deputy Minister of Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6632	Good morning, everyone. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. So, the Ministry of Security has prepared an answer to Mr. Mehmedović's representative's question. So, there was a little confusion about the name. So, al-Masri so-called. Abu Hamza, cited by first-guest representatives, is the britanski Imam who was sentenced in New York to life imprisonment for acts of terrorism and such a person was not subject to the work of the authorities responsible for implementing the laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which you have been charged with before. However, Imad Al Husein, son of Muhamed, citizen of Syria, born on 08.10.1963, is a foreigner who, on the basis of the judicial solution of the Foreign Affairs Service, has, in accordance with Article 99(2)(a) and point (b) and Article 102(4) and Article 6. The Act on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 36/08 and 87/12), a certain measure of supervision at a specialised facility for the accommodation and reception of foreigners at the Immigration Centre. It is a foreigner whose rightful decision deprived bh citizenship, a judicial decision rejected a request for the granting of temporary stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a judicial decision rejected an application for international protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then a measure of banning Bosnia and Herzegovina territory and a voluntary time-limit for leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina, which did not respect the person concerned, resulting in a binding implementation of the law in order to determine the measure of supervision of accommodation in a specialised institution for the reception and accommodation of foreigners until his distance from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The measure of supervision of the person concerned is not contrary to the provisions of the law, the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and, subsequently, to the EU Directive 2008/115, as it is set with the objectives which are permitted, not only in accordance with domestic law but also with international conventions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law, the assessment of the competent agency, is that it is a foreigner who poses a threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina's national security, has not changed until the time when he was appointed as the subject of the service's work. As long as there are legal conditions for this measure, the person concerned will have a measure of supervision of the restrictions on movement until the conditions for its distance are obtained, whether in the country of origin or a safe third country, given the situation in Syria, and the European Court of Human Rights ruling. The procedure for finding a safe third country is complex and quite slow, as it takes place through the BiH Foreign Ministry towards the competent authorities of third countries. The Institute of Supervisory Measures cannot be called a deprivement of freedom in view of the significant difference seen in the fact that Imad Al Husein, on his request, can be released from the Immigrant Centre if he respects a series of judicially spoken decisions by competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, more specifically if he wants to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina because he does not meet the requirements for legal stay in this country. 4 It is important to point out that no legally binding act in any country, preservation of public order or public security puts beyond the democratic measure of the state in relation to individual civil law, especially when it comes to foreign citizens. The measure of supervision under the applicable positive rules is not time-limited, which has a basis in terms of the fact that the creation of conditions for the distance of foreigners in certain cases may take a long time. A currently valid solution to the exceptional extension of supervision as well as any previous solutions has been confirmed by the BiH Court of Justice's second-degree body, and then when the constitutional court's appeal has been filed. When it comes to the second part of the answer, the Ministry of Security was neither able to propose the Intelligence Agency Act, and in that sense, as an executive authority, we appreciate that we are not really the competent authority to provide an answer to the question raised regarding the Intelligence Agency Act, and the above-mentioned abuses that you have stated here as a representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6633	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović, do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6634	Since the answer is widespread, I'd like to ask that I get a written and written response like this so I can manifest myself, because it's obvious that in that legal vacuum we're playing with human destiny. You know, no one can say precisely, clearly and loudly how long this agony of a man who, he doesn't have to be a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is actually no longer a citizen of what country he is, given the situation in Syria where, if he were expelled, we send him to a certain death. Therefore, I ask to be delivered to me in writing so that you may eventually be manifested and to propose solutions appropriate in accordance with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6635	Thank you very much. Here, you heard the representatives of the Council of Ministers request MPs. So deliver the answer in writing as well. We have this second question regarding the chairman of the Council of Ministers. You weren't in the O.R. when this question was read, well, it's Mrs. Irina Lovrić's case, Mr. Mehmedović asked that question, whether you'll answer or answer someone from the Council of Ministers, so we know, so that's the thing. _________(?) /No microphone turned on So we don't have a representative of the Ministry here who needs to give an answer. I ask that a response be prepared for the next session by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, as announced by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. 5 We move on with our questions. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go, Mr. Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to warmly greet you all present in the hall. Therefore, my question concerns, i.e. it is addressed to the competent individuals or services which, I would say, are responsible, or responsible for this issue, which concerns services in the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We all understand how bad and dangerous roads are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On these and such roads they chase vehicles or columns with lighted, blinking and rotational lights, bringing very often other traffic participants into an uncomfortable position, least said. When passing by with those cars we had the chance to hear from the escort – stay away from the column. Given the circumstances, the impression is that these cars have more than normal to expect, and from a colleague here in Parliament, we heard in one discussion that during the day and night in front of numerous cafes and restaurants in the Sarajevo area they can meet and see numerous official cars. In that sense, I would like to ask a question that reads – how many cars does the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have? What is the purchase price of these vehicles, as well as the age of those cars? Who gives the order to use and use the official car? Who gives the order to escort those cars? Is it regulated during what period of the day a vehicle can be used and according to which regulation their behavior on the roads is regulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6638	Thank you. It says here to me that the matter has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I would ask, in fact, to ask all the services, and that should be done by the House of Representatives, to which this question concerns to prepare a precise answer to each of these questions. These are the things we need to know and that we have in mind. The word now has Mr. Salko Sokolović. The issue is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Minister of Security. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all present colleagues in Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, the media. My question has been addressed to the Police Support Agency, the Director and SIPA Agency, also the director, and I have been unofficially informed that SIPA recently acquired seven new car brands “Citroen” – I ask for answers to whether you purchased these cars, how many pieces, which are exactly marks and type and from which, conditionally said, the planned funds, from which the supplier, at which he prices, and where is published, what is most important, public advertising for procurement in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? 6 I have here in the meantime received a reply from the Police Support Agency. I understand, and I suppose they're not in this case, but here, I wanted to check that out, work in the process of getting these cars, but I am alive interested in information or the answer from the SIPA agency, or the director.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6640	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Minister of Security, Mr. Mijo Krešić. Here you go, Mr. Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6641	Thank you very much again. So here's what we can do here today, which I can answer, is, in part, on your inquiry, that means that the Police Support Agency didn't get those vehicles. This has been delivered to you, and we have sent a letter to SIPA to carry out, so checking the allegations of possible purchase, means, that is, a quality answer to your question asked, and it will be delivered to you at the next session. So today this second part we won't be able to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6642	Mr. Sokolović, are you asking that at the next session you be given an oral response or that you get an answer in writing? Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6643	Well, I'd like the public to know that it's in oral form here in Parliament. But here I am now asking you, Mr. Chairman, wasn't it the Agency's director's obligation or someone in the service to be there to answer this question? I did not ask the question directly to the Ministry of Security, nor to Mr. Krešić, Deputy Minister of Security, but to the director of the Agency, or to the people who carried out this tender documentation. Here, in the future, I say, we should have addressed people, so those we call to be here and give us a direct answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6644	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokolović, I just want to introduce you all precisely to article 171. The Rules of Procedure which discusses oral issues by representatives, which says MPs can ordinarily ask questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, or to an individual member of the BiH Council of Ministers at the beginning of each first session of the month, before the debate on the agenda with direct television transmission. That is, therefore, a provision and we have forwarded your question to the BiH Council of Ministers according to this provision. That's just it. I would like to ask the BiH Council of Ministers, in fact, to ask the Council of Ministers to prepare a precise answer for the next meeting of the House of Representatives and to be in oral form as requested, while the deputy minister practically announced in his presentation. 7 Now the word has Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. The issue is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6645	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I don't mind asking the Minister of Finance to answer the question. Namely, my question is that at the 6th session of the House of Representatives, a conclusion has been adopted which is in charge of the Council of Ministers to propose amendments and amendments to the Law on Salaries and Compensations in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which... the issue of compensation in the boards of directors and supervisory boards, commissions and interresor working groups. Namely, from the Council of Ministers' reply to my parliamentary question concerning fees for work on boards and supervisory boards, it is evident that individual employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina receive up to 30,000 marks annually and that the fees of members of the Management Board for indirect taxation are inappropriately high. Also in the audit report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2013 budget, a whole series of recommendations have been made regarding the issue of regulation of fees. So I am interested – What activities has been taken by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance to implement audit recommendations and conclusions of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6646	Thank you. Minister of Finance and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6647	The chairman, members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I must say that we have received this question quite late, but since I am referred to the subject, you know that we have given a detailed review, just to your representative's question, where we have identified absolutely all the receipts that have the character of what you have said. We're taking this as well as the audit reports seriously. We have drawn up a document called Pay Policy, and I hope that it will soon be adopted by the Council of Ministers and forwarded to Parliament, because it will be a comprehensive document that proposes a lot of these changes. Also, when the Council of Ministers' Work Programme was adopted for this year, we have defined all the laws that we will pass, and also amendments, a series of laws that will improve and help even better manage all costs. Also published on our website are all the rules that have come into force since 01.01. this year and for very much reason have brought significant savings. Therefore, you will only allow us to simply, despite what I'm saying now, give you a written reply where we will specify all the acts and measures we have prepared to settle things where the men have so far not been properly arranged. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6648	Thank you. Does Mrs. Pandurević want to make a comment? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6649	I thank the chairman. Of course, I'll be grateful to the finance minister for taxing everything and for avoiding the situation where we're proposing some partial solutions about how someone likes it, someone to cut wages, someone to cut fees, finally systemically edit that area. And in that sense, we really support the finance minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6650	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Amir Fazlić has a question with the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is: Why did the Federal Ministry of Health unquestionably disappear from the registration of the first hepatitis B vaccine in the Federation of BiH marked 05-37-380/01 since 07.08.2001, when there is a legal obligation to keep such a dossier, and why did the Federal Institute of Public Health not inform the public of the disappearance of the file from the moment of knowledge of the event even though we know it was a problem of public importance? Given the character of the issue I expect from the Minister of Civil Affairs and I would ask for a written reply unless it is able to give an oral answer today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6652	Thank you very much. So, he's not here right now in the Civil Service Hall, but here's the representative who adapted to this situation. I am asking the Council of Ministers to act on the request of MPs and deliver the response in writing. Let's keep asking questions. Now the word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6653	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me at what stage is the decision-making procedure for a certification body at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? The adoption of this Decision could approach and protect domestic products, in particular the standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's indigenous products such as Lithuanian cheese, grassland, Vlasic, Herzegovina cheese, as well as a number of other indigenous products in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reason for this is that a tender procedure has been carried out and that two companies have applied, as far as I know, and since the date of the application, there is no answer to whether one company has been selected, and the Food Act, the "Official Messenger of BiH", number 50/04, which has served the Food Safety Agency to propose to the Council of Ministers the adoption of the Regulation on the designations of originality and designations of 9 geographical origin of food and the Regulation on the designations of traditional food reputation "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 27/10, which detail the protection of the originality, the designation of geographical origin and the designation of traditional food reputation. There is no information on this issue, and our manufacturers have been waiting for a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6654	Thank you very much. So, Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, the minister is on his way. The answer can be requested orally at the next session if you want, or in writing, just tell us what request to present to the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6655	Mr. Chairman. I will look forward to my questions, at the 2nd or 3rd session of this body I referred the question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Veterinary Office. I didn't get an answer until today. Also my question – does it take me four years to repeat the same question now because of disrespecting MPs or MPs to give an adequate answer. If I'm going to wait for this answer for a longer period of time, then I don't see the point of asking questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6656	Thank you. You won't wait that long, the next session of the House of Representatives is 30, then you can get an answer in oral form if you want an answer, in a written company, if you want in your mouth, then it's the first session in the next month, you just need to tell me what to do. So you're looking for an oral response, as far as I understand you, in the first next session when there's this way of working.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6657	It's not a problem, it can be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6658	Please, so until 30 this month, so until the next session, I ask the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry to provide a reply to the honourable representative. The word now has Mr Senad Šepić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is the issue. Here you go, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6659	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I personally, and from talking to most of the colleagues sitting here, so we have these dilemmas, so today we'd like to hear the answer to 10 of this question. So – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done so far specifically in the process of preparing... an initial set of socio-economic reforms which our country has committed itself to by accepting the Declaration on the European commitment of BiH, which Parlamentn has adopted and which has resulted crucially resulted in the deblocking of the European road and the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina? I expect that the answer contains the following information: what are the concrete reforms; within which deadline they must be realised; who is all involved in the process of making them; what will be the monitoring process and what has been the role of Parliament in these processes so far? Short explanation: So, after a long, long period of blockade we have again European... According to research, this is the most important topic that citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina expect from us. So, our citizens, everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, wants a better life, wants safety for themselves and their children, wants a job, wants an equal chance for everyone, not corruption, nepotism, private family-interest positioning. So, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina want a rule of law and therefore expect a serious approach, namely these issues. That is why I also expect the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have a completely transparent attitude towards the perspective our citizens believe in. So I expect, here's a more detachable answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6660	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6661	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives, the Honorable Guests and the Media, I welcome you all. I thank the honourable representative Šepić for asking the question, and I can say the following about it. The Council of Ministers has completed all the necessary procedures regarding the preparation and development of the Social Economic Reform Agenda's initial set. The reform agenda will be held today at a Council of Ministers meeting. We will adopt this economic reform agenda today and tomorrow the signing and signing of the economic reform agenda for Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely for all levels of government, as it is a joint document of the Council of Ministers, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, but with, of course, clearly defined measures and activities related to the constitutional and legislative competences of each of these levels of government. When we talk about a set of socio-economic reforms related to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are based on the agreement on... and employment, on recommendations from the 2014 Bosnia and Herzegovina Progress Report, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, international financial institutions' programmes related to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The envisioned reforms are related to Bosnia and Herzegovina in several key areas. The first is maintaining financial stability and strengthening revenue collection, the second is the consolidation of current consumption, the third is the fulfillment of public debt, the fourth is related to improving the business climate and increasing the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy and the fifth is related to the 11th rule of law... by public administration reform. The reforms will be implemented within 3, 6, 9 or 12 months, depending on the complexity of the reform itself, the number of measures and activities to be implemented. Everything will, of course, be done in co-operation with international financial institutions that will provide us with the necessary professional and technical and, if necessary, financial assistance related to the implementation of these reforms. It will also be a good opportunity for them to perform and need monitoring in terms of the dynamics of implementation of such reforms.And when we talk about the BiH Parliament, I must say that you will, of course, play a key role in implementing these reforms because you will, of course, adopt, adopt and consider the laws that will arise from the proposed measures, policies and activities defined in this reform and which, I say, will be adopted today at the Council of Ministers, and we expect this, we expect official signing to take place tomorrow in the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6662	Thank you. Mr. Šepić, you have a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6663	Well, we haven't heard, unfortunately, exactly what kind of reform it is, but I want the Council of Ministers to adopt it today. The federal government did one part of the job yesterday, and I expect the people of Republika Srpska to do so, but what needs to be said here, so this Parliament adopted the statement and took responsibility. This Parliament also5 appointed the Council of Ministers and all those who prepare... Here are the people who are and who must be the voice of the people and the citizens who chose them, so the same is true in other parliaments. And that is why I would like to ask and propose, at the beginning of this session, and I suggested that two months ago, that Parliament's role and monitoring in the integration process should be clearly defined. So the people sitting here take responsibility, the people who have adopted and taken responsibility for the European perspective being realised must be fully involved in all these processes. So, for this very reason, and I wanted to encourage one such approach today, and I expect it to be fully respected in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6664	Thank you. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. This is the question of the Minister of Civil Affairs. Is there anyone from that ministry here? Mrs. Kapetanović You ask a question and we will ask for the next session, and let it be heard, you have done your part of the work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6665	Mr. Chairman, it does not have to be addressed strictly to the minister of civil affairs, it can also be addressed to the esteemed chairman of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Zvizdić. I would like to ask the Ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers – when the Council of Ministers will also prepare for parliamentary procedure, through the Council of Ministers, to refer the draft law on the basic identification number to 11 digits, i.e. numbers, since Bosnia and Herzegovina has signed 12 by signing and now, by way of the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, taken the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with the legal... The European Union. I will repeat my question on this occasion from 28/07/11 when I insisted from the Minister of Civil Affairs that such a law begin to be prepared in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the reason that, taking into account the positive example of the Republic of Croatia which made such a law in 2008, and adopted it, introducing an 11-digit number which is the requirement and basic principle of the European Union which does not want to traffic data with countries that have 13 numbers in the unique birth number as is the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are one of the few countries that has a unique home number and has not introduced a personal identification number. It is very difficult, therefore, to communicate with them, to exchange information related to citizens and institutions. It's in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest to do it as soon as possible. Ten first digits were chosen by accident, the eleventh number is the number of the individual, not given, therefore, an insight into the privacy of a particular person as we now have the case that you have in a unique birth number, in fact revealed the date of your birth, and the introduction of such a personal number protects the privacy of a person, which is a strict requirement of the European Union. What is very interesting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is important that the adoption of such a law will make a general informative of the public administration, increase the efficiency of the state administration, create a discharge, i.e. administrative discharges of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I know that the chairman of the Council of Ministers in his plan and expose has stated that. So, the basic identification number and such a functioning system are the most effective measure in the fight against corruption, which is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina knowing about our very highly ranked place
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6666	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6667	at the level of corruption, given that it provides a better overview of the property of citizens and legal persons, controls the inflow and flow of money, a key prerequisite for a transparent economy and systematic control of corruption. And I pray that this law begins to be prepared at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6668	Thank you very much. The answer in writing then forms, if you agree, Mrs. Kapetanović? You agree, so answer in writing as soon as possible. Now the word is, let me just point out, so the Minister of Civil Affairs, I remain obliged to say, is officially absent, so today he is not absent for any other reason but for objective prevention. Yes, and we know that for the sake of correctness. The word is Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6669	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present, I wish you a good day and a good day's work today. 13 My question has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and reads – Given the information coming from the BiH Statistics Agency on the delay in publishing the official results of the 2013 census compared to the planned deadlines of the sixth month of this year, I am looking for detailed information on the current state of affairs relating to the processing of the census results, the measures taken to end and publish the results. Given the importance of the population census for further economic, political, financial and development activities, I refer the issue to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I have prepared this question by now, after coming to this Parliament, but waiting for a period of adaptation, I only sent it in writing the other day. And it quite accidentally coincided with the arrival of international statisticians to visit our statisticians and one public disgrace at the press conference, so our entire public got a pretty ugly answer to this question of mine. Of course I do, and this House, I think, deserves a far more serious answer to this question and a more concrete one than the Council of Ministers, or a specific chairman. I, regardless of the specific oral response, will insist on a written answer to this question for a simple reason, except for these listed, the question of the census I think is very important for the segment of governance of this country, and that is still our job. However, I am primarily interested in this question from another aspect, from the aspect of my local community, the municipalities and the county from which I come, because for them, and for me, this issue is primarily a financial issue, the issue of the distribution of public income, and I would say the question of naked survival. In fact, over the last nine years, the local community and the wider community from which I come has been brutally stolen on the issue of the number of inhabitants we have repeatedly warned about. And when we finally proved on this list that we've been claiming for years that we have a schizophrenic situation that no one marks it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6670	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6671	Of course, the second fact is very important – if we had an incredible and real danger, I would say that the results of this list are never published, they are thrown away. I think we must avoid this danger in every way possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6672	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6673	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. In the second part of his question, Mr. Kožul spoke of the number of residents as one of the criteria for the distribution of public incomes in the Federation. Of course, at this point it has nothing to do with the list itself and with the fundamental question it has asked, but here, I must say that I fully agree with you and you are absolutely right when you say that the list should first be viewed as one of the basic documents and instruments for policy making and strategy in the area of economic, social and social development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it should in no way be brought down to the question of the national declaration of those who are listed, but unfortunately I feel that this second segment has become dominant in, we can freely say, essentially 14 important documents on which in each developed country... the plans and projections of its social economic development are rested. At present, there are different views and different opinions in two essential or key things – in defining the status of residents and in defining the total population, i.e. methodologies and ways in which processing and final results will be achieved in these two areas. What I can say as my personal position, in which I will insist, is that it would be necessary for the process to end in accordance with the law, in accordance with international standards, with the monitoring team's views and in a way that the data we receive... the list of Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully internationally comparable to that of both the countries of the region and the EU. I do not think it will be acceptable, and this is the position of EUROSTAT, any interpolation in already defined procedures based on international standards. The list issue will, of course, be held at the Council of Ministers session as soon as we get written recommendations from EUROSTAT and, of course, guidelines from the monitoring team and delegation that visited Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will certainly insist that the list ends in its administrative and procedural sense and ends at the most recent time. And finally get a document that is extremely important so that we can seriously and responsibly plan our economic, social, social and every other development. We also know that after this list, for the longest time in a year, it is necessary to access the list in the area of agriculture, to make certain registers so that other segments of our economic development can be based on real and real facts, and thus do very serious projections. So, as soon as we get these written recommendations, the material will be, information on the Council of Ministers, and after that we will define ourselves, give clear guidelines, but they will exclusively be based on law and legal procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6674	Thank you very much. Mr. Kožul, do you need to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6675	Well, there's no need, I'll be pleased when the results of the list are published and I expect, here's my respect for this deadline and the Council of Ministers' session, and then I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6676	Thank you very much. So, the MP is expecting an answer in writing anyway, so I ask the Council of Ministers to deliver that answer which will certainly be much more detailed because of the time, right, which we have according to the Rules of Procedure when we give answers to these questions. Now the word is Mr. Staša Košarac. The issue is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6677	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome you, representatives of the Council of Ministers. I refer the question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers – Why has the aim of the 9th session of the Council of Ministers of BiH since 2 June of this year been made a decision on the appointment of a Co-ordination Mechanism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the fact that since 15 2013 there has been a proposal for a coordination mechanism on which, in accordance with the procedures, they have worked for almost a year, which has been acceptable for most parties who have been participating in the current Council of Ministers? Has the BiH Council of Ministers ever considered in this session the current Proposal for a Coordination Mechanism and established what is not good in this proposal, which is why a new Co-ordination Mechanism Team should be appointed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6678	Thank you very much. The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6679	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. Before I answer this question specifically, I must, of course, mention one interesting thing that in 2012 a new coordination mechanism was launched although there was still a decision on the coordination mechanism for the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was not put out of force, but nevertheless decided to work on an improved coordination mechanism. Of course, no one was asking such a similar question as why the existing decision and the existing mechanism are being derrogated and the new mechanism is being developed. But here, now you've asked such a question, which is completely legitimate, and I will of course answer you that question. You in your question suggest that the coordination mechanism that was created in 2013 is probably acceptable for part of the parties that are taking part in the Council of Ministers today, and that is, I guess, true, but what is crucial is that it is not acceptable for everyone. So he was not accepted by the Federation of BiH government and therefore does not satisfy the basic fact that the coordination mechanism should be accepted in general a document for all who will adopt and implement the EU acquis based on it. That is why we have decided to approach the development of an improved version of the coordination mechanism, which will certainly be based on good and acceptable solutions and from the coordination mechanism, i.e. the document made in 2012, i.e. in 2013. And most importantly, I particularly want to underline this coordination mechanism that will be developed by the Council of Ministers in co-operation with entity governments, Brcko District and Canton will be based on the principle of full respect for the legislative and constitutional competences of all levels of government. So, the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the levels of entities, Brcko District and Canton, certainly according to those chapters in which each of these levels of government has either original or shared jurisdiction. At the same time, the bodies defined by this coordination mechanism will be fully compatible with the bodies provided for, which are to be established in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, it is the Stabilisation and Association Council, the Stabilisation and Association Committee and finally the Parliamentary Committee through which you will be able to monitor, fully participate and be involved in all the issues that are related to European integration and finally and to the economic reform agenda that will be part of such a process. So it is important to me that we have a position and a decision that the coordination mechanism will fully respect legislative and constitutional competences and that certainly creates a quality assumption that we agree on a mechanism that will allow for the passing and... of the EU acquis in accordance with the competences of all levels of government, I repeat - the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the entities, cantons and Brcko District. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6680	Thank you. Mr. Košarac, do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6681	Here, I'll do it very briefly. I asked for an answer whether the Council of Ministers in this meeting ever considered the existing 2013 proposal and what was not good at the mechanism. I got a partial answer. I would ask the chairperson to deliver in writing an answer to the whole question he has been asked and which is being drawn up here in the form of a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6682	Thank you. Here, you've heard the request of a representative. I'm asking you to do that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'll just say the following. So, at the beginning of today's session, he answered with a question about his question, the honourable representative, Mr. Zaim Backović, and we heard certain demands from the distinguished representative, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, for her question. Just, so, let me get this straight. So, the question that came into service here from Mr. Backović is based on Article 170. A Rules of Procedure which speaks of matters in writing. If you would like to change that then I would ask you to make an announcement for the next session during this session to prepare your oral response. And so did Mrs. Vajzović in her question. I'd really like to ask you today during the session to read to the House of Representatives' Secretariat what you want, so will you change what you've done so far so that we have questions in oral form for the next session? There's no discussion about this, I'm this way, this way I'm concluding this agenda point. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6683	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6684	There is no debate on this topic at this time. Please respect us, I said. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6685	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6686	Mr. Backović, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6687	In an act that I have submitted, he writes – on the basis of Article 170. Rules of Procedure. Article 170(2) - parliamentary questions are asked orally or in writing. I emphasized when I was teaching the act that I wanted to ask the question orally, pointed out. What they wrote in the office, but I stressed that I wanted to ask the question orally. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6688	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6689	... in accordance with Article 2, Article 170.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6690	Thank you, Mr. Backović. If we don't make this a problem or drama, I respect your right when you say you're looking for an answer orally in a session. I call on the Council of Ministers and ask the service to prepare the competent ministry or the Council of Ministers for the next session when it comes to the agenda and to answer this question. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6691	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6692	So, you'll ask him and then you'll get an answer to that question. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6693	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6694	If you want and yes, you can ask Mr. Backović a question today. Here, ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6695	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I, as an agent, respect absolutely everything. And if I handed over and intervened here in time and came and showed the question to the secretary then it is correct to say – please ask a question rather than put me in a position to ask it as a forced request. I'm not asking you to. This is about real life stuff. I've prepared from 11 cities of photography...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6696	Start with the question, sir. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6697	Then I'll show it what it looks like and what it's about, why I'm asking this question. Since it's a complicated question, I'll read it. A parliamentary question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and to the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications. Article 3(4) The Law on Communications of the Official Messenger No. 31/03, 75/06, 32/10 and 98/12 are prescribed that the Council of Ministers and the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH take all reasonable measures to promote... competition and ensure that there is no threat or restriction of competition in the telecommunications sector in line with the sectoral policies of the Council of Mines. Since certain telecommunications operators in 18 carry out their activities do not respect positive legal regulations on telecommunications requirements, I ask the Parliament's question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and to the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH – Do they take appropriate measures in accordance with their responsibilities towards these operators who unauthorizedly place installations on the pillars of the low voltage network of the BiH Elektroprivreda and the pillars of public lighting? On about 22,000 pillars of Elektroprivreda, unauthorized installations of cable operators were installed and according to media reports around 10,000 pillars were unauthorized by only one company, that is Telemah, publishing cable distribution without permission. According to cable operators Telemah, he worked all over 2014 without a cable distribution permit at about 100,000...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6698	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6699	So you didn't let me start by saying, I mean, let me... read.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6700	Mr. Backović, don't, Mr. Backović, I beg you, don't,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6701	This is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6702	Don't let us make unnecessary scenes in front of the cameras here. I only warn you of the Rules of Procedure. You have two minutes, what you'll be talking about in two minutes is your business. Thank you very much. I ask the Council of Ministers to prepare a reply to Mr Zaim Backović at the next session as the MP says whether orally or in writing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. On the occasion of this item of the agenda, I would like to point out one thing that is already seen as a phenomenon, the meaning of this item of the agenda, so this MP's watch, is not to ask a question and to be left without an answer, the goal is to face the views of the one who asks the question and the one who answers the question and to clear the situation up. And in the future, therefore, we will make sure that we are achieving the purpose set by the Rules of Procedure. This is, I understand still in some way stalking, because this is new in relation to the current practice of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but we will take care of this, as we do in this House, and the Council of Ministers, which is actually the main subject of giving answers when it comes to this point of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, meetings of the following committees were held in preparation for this House session: Constitutional Commissions, Transport and Communications Commissions, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and meetings of the joint committees of both homes to bring the text of the law into line. The Commission has done its part of the work neatly and in preparation for this session. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. It was downloaded from the previous agenda: 19 Point 10. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2014 – material of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, issue: 01,02-28-746/15 of 26.05.2015, at the request of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Joint Commission scheduled a session for 18.06.2015 to discuss all the materials of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH. Detailed information has been requested on all measures and actions related to the disposal of waste in the area of Trade Up. The following are added to the agenda: Point 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies – Proposer: Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and Point 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6703	Gentlemen chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, esteemed guests. I will take advantage of the possibility of Article 71(1) today. Rules of Procedure, I'd like it to come to an understanding, it's just a matter of MPs being asked here, but I don't think it's going to be possible to resolve these matters with an MP's question. I think that given the situation in which we are and that the elections were held almost 8 months ago, we are entering the ninth month, apropo statement by top officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina, party presidents on the European path and visits by Commissioner Hana, I think it was quite logical that today the thematic session of the State Parliament will be dedicated to the proposal for a harmonised agenda for the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which stems from a joint statement adopted. I say in line, that it would not happen again if Commissioner Han took the paper to Brussels and Bosnia and Herzegovina showed the same weakness. I know it's not easy, I understand colleagues in the Council of Ministers, and they're like me in my day sitting on the bus and the engines pulled out, and then we as MPs get into the same and our European path is – jiha, jiha four feet, all four stiff, jiha, jiha we go on the long way. I feel like it might, and I'm sorry if it happens this time. That's why my proposal is to stop this session today and give it a chance to prepare a thematic session and see if we have, and why that's still important, so different election units, entities are election units for this Parliament, whether we have a coherent position of the entity government. I wouldn't even mind maybe meeting the European Commission, meeting, meeting parliamentary committees dealing with European issues. Because... a lot of entity parliaments and state parliaments, because a lot of promises have been made and there's no movement. And I don't think any act from the executive authority is going to Brussels or any address should go without confirmation of the parliaments of entity and state. This would avoid mutual conflicts within Parliament. They were alive and seen. So the speed at which this is done for Commissioner Han to take any paper from Bosnia and Herzegovina will take a short time for these 20 celebrations, here it is necessary to check whether there really is a desire for reforms, whether there is a willingness for reforms, here I assume that the Agenda also contains changes in legal projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6704	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6705	So I suggest that it be the first item of the agenda if, and that today's session is interrupted until we have it, if there's a willingness to do so. If you're not there, you'll show by voting how we see it all. In fact, we don't know today if the entity governments, I know that they... talked, agreed on those documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6706	Time, time, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6707	And secondly, of course I don't invite anyone to the replica, I'm asking the promoter like last time he got the strength to pull this, the motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. Which is why we're doing it with a lot of drinking to victims, surviving families, etc.,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6708	Time, time, Mr. Špirić, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6709	I think that... I'm asking you just, it's a serious thing not to call on replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6710	You can say anything seriously in three minutes, please respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6711	So, I, since there are two issues, think Bosnia and Herzegovina has not built such a degree of trust and tolerance to deal with discussions on such resolutions and that we will make a greater problem of benefit. That it was a case after '45. The year passed a resolution on genocide against Srbin, I don't think there would be a state. So, so please...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6712	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6713	Thank you very much, here, and I'm asking to make a statement about it, even though it's... a point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6714	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, thank you. We heard you, Mr. Špirić. 21 The word has Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6715	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Well, I don't know if this is exactly a replica you can call, here we finally agree with the SNSD on some issues and I can freely support everything Mr. Špirić said. And we support them, even this request for this agenda point. However, as Honorable counterpart Špirić said, with this one, the Council of Ministers was pulled out of the bus, so if we've already taken the engines off the bus, I don't think we should put the stone under their wheels and put the sessions away and make extra stops. And in any case we support this item of the agenda, but not to interrupt the session, let the thematic session be organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6716	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6717	The moment we are in, and this is 20 years ago about the events in Srebrenica and in line with what the European Parliament has already adopted as a resolution, and all the countries that are in our practical environment and the EU, as well as that will unpartially and the UN adopt the resolution, the text proposed not only represents the adoption of the Srebrenica Resolution, but the text of the condemnation, which it has read, genocide and all crimes on any Bosnia and Herzegovina resident, without being directed towards national, ethnic and religious membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6718	Thank you, Mr. Backović. Please, the word is now Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6719	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, I'd like to propose, on the trail of yesterday's debate at the Expanded College, one, so to speak, a preliminary point before the opening of the debate on agenda points. You've got my thoughts right before this rise to this proposal's conclusion, I don't plead that it's called a conclusion can be called both a statement and an attitude, but it was yesterday this one idea presented to you, so here you saw in the text, I'll read it for the public. So, if I were to suggest a conclusion that would lead to, therefore, the House of Representatives prior to the opening of the session of the agenda, i.e. working on the agenda, and it would read: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH expressed satisfaction with the activities of the institutions of government and persons who participated in the organisation of visits by the Holy Father of the Pope of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular in the activities of the security agencies. 22 So I think it was all right, I was a direct witness to it, here, so I suggest we do something like that, just to send a positive message on the trail and visitation that went well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6720	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, there's only one small intervention in this case, so there's a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6721	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, respected media, I warmly welcome you all. And here I am, in some way, going to have a little intervention on this proposal that the president of the HDZ Club and the parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly have said about the arrival of the svet otac of papa Franjo in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have spoken with him in some way and here with my colleagues, so I just wanted to maybe modify this proposal a little bit, and this would be this way, that if the House of Representatives already expressed satisfaction with the visit of Pope Francis BiH, and expressed gratitude to all the institutions, institutions and individuals who participated in any way, both in preparation, in the organization and realization of this great and dignified visit or event. Here, about that, in a way, would be kind of my formulation of this proposal. I hope you've all understood that it's not something special, but here's the thing that, in some way, we formally shape it when we're already expressing some satisfaction with this one event that really went magnificently and dignifiedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6722	I think we talked about this yesterday at the College. Mr. Lovrinović, please just, I apologize for interrupting you, if I may ask you only, you agree, I suppose, with what Mrs. Krišto and I said, we told the College yesterday that we should do this and do it outside of this agenda. I would now invite the House of Representatives to make a statement about this proposal and the text as read by Mrs Borjana Krišto and then to move forward with the debate on the agenda. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 34 votes for, no objection, no abstentions, I find that, with a sufficient entity majority, the House of Representatives adopted this text, the proposal as Mr Lovrinović noted, and the text was originally read by Mrs Krišto and it is actually this text. We're moving on with the agenda now. Mr. Nikola Špirić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6723	... she was tied up, but after Mrs. Krišto's clarification... 23
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6724	Thank you very much. Mr. Staša Košarac, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6725	Nothing, in accordance with Article 71, as well as at the previous 10, 11 session of the House of Representatives, we propose a item of the agenda, that is – a decision on the resolution of Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. My colleagues and colleagues have on several occasions been given an explanation and we remain in the same reasoning and ask that this proposal be made known to the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6726	Thank you very much. Since no one else is, Mr. Mladen Bosić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6727	Dear MPs. I suggest you take off the agenda point 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Let me remind you, this House adopted the Commission's proposal at one of its earlier sessions and sent it to the People's House. The home of the people has not yet considered the proposal. If we were to go with another proposal, this means that the House of Nations would have two proposals, different Commission proposals. The second reason is that this second proposal has violated the oluk onproportional drowning in the entity Commission, this time in favour of MPs from Republika Srpska. However, we advocate respect for the principles prescribed and propose that this time, although it is in favour of Republika Srpska MPs, if we violate the principle another time will be in favour of the Federation MPs and we will have problems and misunderstandings. The third reason why we think we should take this point off the agenda is because the son of one of the proposed MPs is employed by the Agency. So I suggest we take point 15 off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6728	Thank you very much. I'm in the middle of a debate on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević is looking for a word, yet it is not concluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6729	... Club break of 15 minutes. [[no microphone turned on]] 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6730	At the request of the president of the SDS Club, the break is 15 minutes. I'd like you to be here exactly twenty to twelve. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Mr. Damir Arnaut is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6732	Just business intervention, chairman. Do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 184? Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6733	Thank you very much for the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6734	I asked you a question, can you read yourself according to article 76, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6735	Thank you very much. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6736	...business intervention. Article 184. The Rules of Procedure say the Council of Ministers, through its representative, is obliged to take part in the House's sessions and the House's committee. And article 185 says the House Council of Ministers is its chairman or one or more of its members or deputies. And this is the second time we've warned about this question, only when it comes to House sessions. You are familiar with, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, that this issue was also raised at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission and I do not need to remind you that you are, at the time, the comment of Mrs Pandurević, who led the session, that it is not necessary, you said that my remark is fully justified and that the Rules of Procedure is not worth discussing and should not be debated and that the presence of members of the Council of Ministers is absolutely necessary. So I don't think the conditions are met unless there are representatives of the Council of Ministers here. And I also remind you of Article 76(1), which states that the MP is obliged to specify the provision of the Rules of Procedure which I, of course, have done, Article 184 and Article 185, after which the Chairman of the House will decide on the justification of the objection regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I really ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure, to decide on the justification of this objection, because I see no reason to avoid it from sitting in a session. You have a majority here at the House of Representatives, you do not need the House of Peoples to amend this provision of the Rules of Procedure, if you do not like it. If you do not think you need to or do not want to decide on the justification of the objection, then please use that majority of yours, amend the Rules of Procedure, and then work in accordance with the second provision. But I also insist on the presence of the representatives of the Council of Ministers and insist on the consistent application of Article 76(1), that after I, who am obliged to state the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been injured, after I have done so, you too decide immediately on the justification of the complaint concerning the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's really a need for this to be a debate, especially in light of what you said yourself, at a session of the 25 Constitutional Commissions on Monday, that the Rules of Procedure should not be discussed, that if something is clear, the representatives of the Council of Ministers have to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6737	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking if anyone from the Council of Ministers is present here in the O.R.? I find that no one from the Council of Ministers is present in the hall, and the relevant provisions of Rule 184 requires the presence of the Rules of Procedure, and I call on the Council of Ministers to take account of this business provision. Let the Council of Ministers be informed that this has to be taken care of. So that's one thing. And secondly, these aren't the reasons why they'd keep me in session. We move on with our work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we had a debate on the agenda on several proposals. Mr Špirić suggested that today's session be interrupted. A session may not be interrupted at the request of a representative. The session is mandatory and I can't put it to the vote. If Mr Špirić thinks we should have that agenda point, I personally don't mind, but I ask that such an initiative be directed, let it be said whether it is this House, a joint session, and we will show ourselves about it. As far as the College is concerned, I don't think there's gonna be a problem. We now have a proposal from Mr. Košarac, which is next in line. This is a repeat point, wait a minute to finish the vote, we are now entering the voting process, I urge you to prepare yourself for a vote on Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal for the chairman's shift, to include the agenda item for the chairmandom shift. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 for, 30, v, 2 abstentions. This request did not receive Parliament's support. We have a request from Mr. Bosić to remove the item on the 15th agenda of today's session. This item was included yesterday in the accompanying Enlarged College, and it is possible, since yesterday it was included, to submit a request at today's session and to problem it as opposed to some others who have been on the agenda since the first day and these are mandatory points of the agenda and it is not possible to download them. But just one brief note to tell you, that you know what this is about, I'm more of a chairman, and that's the only reason why I raised this issue, I don't want to be held accountable because we don't have all Parliament's working bodies in place. I've delegated this to the House. You will of course decide. I want the House to be established in full capacity, and that's how I carry responsibility with me to this House, because until this moment I was responsible for me after a session of the Joint College and us as a College. Therefore, I think you would, but here I pose you to make a statement about Mr. Bosić's proposal to remove this kind of 15. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 15 against, 11 abstentions. 26 So there's no general majority here to take this off the agenda and this stays on the agenda as a point. You'll get a chance to vote when it's a part of the agenda. So I, my dear colleagues and colleagues, realize that today's session agenda is as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No 01-02-1-3/15, of 26.02.2015. (second reading); 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Civil Aviation Liaison Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-13/14, of 24.07.2014; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-135/14, of 15/09/2014; 6. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014, issue: 01,02-28-586/15, dated 20.04.2015; 7. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2014, Act No 01,02-50-19-689/15, of 14.05.2015; 8. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2014, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, Act No 01,02-37-703/15, of 19.05.2015; 9. Annual report on the results of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution's activities and the Annual Report on the Development of Discrimination in BiH for 2014, issue 01,02-12-729/15, of 22.05.2015; 10. Proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica – MPs: Denis Bećirović, Mirsad Mešić and Zaim Backović, issue: 01-02-2-710/15, since 19.05.2015. 11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014, Act No: 01-09-674/15, of 12.05.2015; 12. Information from the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications on the Prices of Mobile Operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Realisation of MPs' Initiative Mladen Bosić), issue: 01/5-50-1-572-1/15, of 21.05.2015; 13. Review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative, submitted at the 11th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13th May 2015, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015," Act No: 01-50-1-682/15, of 13.05.2015; 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes; 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer: College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition. 27 We move to the first item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate on the record. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received, uh, a true response in written form from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but since I am not satisfied with the answer, in accordance with Article 175(4), I will exercise my right and ask an additional parliamentary question in writing, which I am also announcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6741	Thank you very much. Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, commentary. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Council of Ministers for responding to my initiative, which I have launched, with the aim of strengthening the capacity to apply to European projects by putting this into place in the budget in an adequate way, because in the last few years, the budget for such activities has been drastically reduced. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, in terms of disrespect or non-acceptance of the initiative, not only for these capacities, but also for the absence of support of innovators who have practically brought several recognitions to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that by training those institutions and individuals who can apply for European projects, in this way withdraw the funds needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, that these are things to be respected and that this is an opportunity for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, I am not satisfied with the amount foreseen in the budget for this year, and otherwise, as far as the answer is concerned, I am absolutely content with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6743	Thank you. Anyone else want to answer their word for comment? If no one answers the word, I'll conclude the debate on this agenda. I thank you all. We're moving to three agendas, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 10th session of the House, held on 08.04.2015. During last, the 12th House session, held on 28.05.2015, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the deadline was extended for the delivery of the Report on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH by 20 days. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted its report on 09.06.2015. One amendment has been adopted. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović submitted an amendment in the plenary phase. Amandam reads - in Article 8. to delete item 1. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. Moving to the point of the four agenda, that's Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the BiH Civil Aviation Liaison Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6748	I thank the chairman. I'll just look back, so as far as the text of the report is concerned, I really don't think it's controversial. However, given that it is a report that is divided into addresses of very many users, not only this House of Representatives, I am really interested in what is to be done in this form, which is certainly not cheap? So, look at this, this is a report, the most common work report, which we get hundreds of times every year and always, in almost all situations, we get in the ordinary print form that definitely generates savings. So I don't really see why anyone in the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy found it appropriate to do it this hard, hard, shiny paper, color maps, etc., taking into account, in particular, the practice, that reports are being delivered to this Parliament in an economic way. And here, among other things, we are informed of electricity prices, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the region, while listening to announcements from representatives of the ruling coalition that electricity collection will inevitably take place this year, which is definitely something that citizens, particularly threatened categories of population, pensioners, etc. They're thinking a lot about whether or not they're gonna be able to pay the electric bill, so they don't get shut down. And then when we see this, which, unfortunately, most of us, after this session, will no longer need this. So you don't need a report after the session is over, especially since the reports are usually delivered in electronic form. Not otherwise, but every report we get is in electronic form. So, it is on Parliament's website, so if we ever need this again, we can go to Parliament's website, not to mention this internal page of Parliament, take that report, eventually print it as much as we need it, but in any case we can look at it at every time at 21 centuries on the screen. So I think this really is one irresponsible waste of resources by the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, especially since it comes at the same time as announcements of electricity collection this year. Well, the money spent on this, the funds spent on this could be used to at least subsidize electricity when it comes to the most vulnerable categories of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6749	Thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6750	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I kind of agree with my colleague. Definitely this is the way this report speaks to us either about the seriousness of the Commission or that it is about a Commission that has a little more money, so it can afford this kind of thing. It was very interesting for me to read this report, since here it concerns my fields, my work, my work and my activities. What we can see from the report, and very well, is that our country is electricity, meaning energy independent, can be very interesting, and should be interesting, and that thing should be used, so we in our country, for attracting foreign investment, means foreign investors, because energy is an important factor, not only at cost, but also for security of supply. It is also seen from this report that for our terms, we will agree that this is a relatively high price, however, compared to 31 EUs, to neighbouring countries, that we are both households and industry, how can I say, cheaper, though I say, for our terms, for our budget, for our standard of our citizens, it is expensive electricity, but for investors this can be, therefore, an impasse for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be interesting for them. And another very important thing, and it is related to this European path of our country, is that Bosnia and Herzegovina produces almost 50% of electricity from renewable sources somewhere. We know that there is a threshold in the EU, it seems to me, in 2020, to achieve 20%, we are far beyond that, which is very good. It seems to me that we in some 10 countries in the world are receiving electricity from total quantities from renewable sources. For information, for example, there is Norway or Austria from Europe based on hydroenergy. What prompted me is, I don't want to blame the Commission, I don't know if it's exactly her jurisdiction, but I want to talk about it this time and say a few words, because the situation in our energy sector is not ideally what it shows here. We did in the first three months of this year, so Bosnia and Herzegovina has exported something over 100 million KM of electricity, imported about 20 and some million, so we have that surplus of some 80, 80 million and we are a potential exporter of electricity and we are, so independent. However, the situation in our energy sector is not exactly at that satisfactory level and it is not at the level where we could say for the future that we are safe about electricity and overcoming our citizens and that we will not be threatened in some future period and we need to import electricity. Why am I saying this? I said, that means that some 50% of the electrical energy is obtained from the thermo blocks, except for the Stanars that are in the final phase, all of our energy thermo-energy blocks are over 30 years old. There one who deals with energy knows that their age is actually 30 years, with certain investments, complete reconstruction, it rises in about 10 to 15 years, so some 40 years is the life span of every thermopower plant and all of our thermal power plants are actually at that final stage. We have, therefore, hints, we have plans, serious plans to build new thermo-energy blocks, but it's only transferred, and it's done by our electricians, or individuals, enthusiasts, where few states, seem to me, little to do, to promote such capital and such major projects, which are certainly very interesting. Our country is rich in potential, energy potential, and we need to use it and we need to use electricity to be a serious competitor for attracting foreign investment. The second thing, again, which is not mentioned here and which is very important, again may not concern directly this Commission, but it is very important for our country and for this time, is the question of energy efficiency. All our facilities, from what I can say, from state institutions, from kindergartens, schools, health homes, barracks, I don't know, there are serious studies, serious studies, that all these objects actually use three times more energy than is normal in EU countries. So there we also need, as a state and then perhaps this Commission, to get a little involved, to raise energy efficiency to the needed level, to reduce electricity consumption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus have more electricity to export. I'm drawing again, the current situation is good, especially in the last two years on electricity, in terms of favourable hydrological years, but that, whoever follows the situation on the ground, is following the state of our thermal power plants, in our mines, doesn't give us the right to be ragged, doesn't give us the right to observe it, but seriously, means the State, the Council of Ministers, has to include 32 to help, in any way, to those institutions, to those individuals, to those groups of people who are trying to raise electricity to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6751	Thank you. The word is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6752	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know, I, at least that's how I understand the reports being written, they're being written to know what's been done and that these reports would be the basis for next year what's to be done next year. When I read this report, I have mixed feelings. Of course, I have to express my satisfaction with the way this is written as educational material, and he could really serve the students to study this matter that this report is talking about, which is the functioning of the Derk. However, those serious problems cannot be seen from this report, and they should form the basis for the future activities of the Derk. So let's say in that sense, and this quote that goes at the beginning, it may not be a bit common that in the reports of such a character that the quote is put at the beginning, it's common for textbooks, but here and that's not the problem. So, the problem is what's very discreetly mentioned, I've tried to carefully read this report, but only on page 18 of this report are the obstructions mentioned in the work of the Management Board. Of course, that is very discreetly said, there is no detailed description, that we see what these obstructions are and how these obstructions and who they come from and how they can be eliminated. Then on page 40, and this is extremely important, on page 40 is mentioned, what is pointed out, what the third energy package contains. In this regard, when I finish this discussion, I will propose one conclusion, because I was here in Parliament to represent the activities of the Energy Community by the Director of the Sector, Mr Kopač, who pointed to an extremely problematic situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located and where, let's say, a very serious difficulty does this to Bosnia and Herzegovina in approaching, in the process of approaching the EU. It is very discreetly stressed that Bosnia and Herzegovina is most late from countries in the region. I mean the character of this report, and the situation as it is, requires that the foundation of this report must be a problem in the work and functioning of the Derk, and we all know that this problem really exists. I may not be sure, but if that memory cheats on me, I apologize, but last year it seems to me that there was an allocation of funds under the Agreement between the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH. It was about the funds of about 125 million, if I was wrong, I apologize, but I think that part was supposed to be here, too. And then there's this one, and here's when I opened that question, the financial aspect of Derk's business is missing last year, which I consider to be one of the serious shortcomings. Of course, 54 pages of the report is something that is in any case visible that people have made an effort to do this in one way, as I would say, quite affirmative way, but I think in a rather unusable way. Fourteen remaining pages are the audit report which was carried out in the Derk and which was very commendable for the functioning of the Derk. So we don't even have any of that audit that didn't point to the essence of the functioning and the problems that the National Regulatory Agency is facing. Reading this report this intrinsically, it sounds amazing to say that the Secretary of the Energy Community, Mr Kopač, made serious remarks at a recent meeting held here in 33 Parliament, where he says, where I have to realize that unfortunately there were very few present colleagues from the House of Representatives, which I do not think is right. At several gatherings held throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Kopač pointed to serious failures and what Bosnia and Herzegovina is threatening as sanctions because of insufficient functioning and failure to comply with the conclusions or commitments made under the contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this must have been stated here. Of course, this SBB report will not be able to support unless this proposal that I am about to read is accepted, then they would give me support for this report, because this conclusion would be practically accompanied by major shortcomings and they would get perhaps the main answer to what this report should offer. So, we propose a conclusion – It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide, within 30 days, precise answers to all remarks made by the Director of the Energy Community Secretariat, Mr Janez Kopač, who are given the presentation on the subject: "The State of BiH's integration with the EU in the field of energy", held in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which concerns the lack of the Gas Act, the lack of energy strategy and other commitments made towards the attitudes of the Energy Community. Reason: Given the presentation on the activities of the Energy Community and the implementation of the Energy Community Treaty, held in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 25.02.2015, in which the Energy Community Secretariat's dictator, Mr. Janez Kopač, presented very serious failures of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the realisation of the contractual commitments, we believe that failure to meet the same brings Bosnia and Herzegovina into a very unpredictable position caused by the irresponsible behaviour of individuals and institutions. For all these reasons, we propose this conclusion, which would create assumptions that Bosnia and Herzegovina fulfils its commitments as soon as possible and thus demonstrates that it is up-to-date to meet EU requirements stemming from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So that's what my discussion and our proposal is about this matter that we've been discussing, that is, the report on the functioning of the Derk. So that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6753	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6754	Thank you. A report in front of us, as my esteemed colleague Damir said, luxurious, good and meaningful for those who should know, realistically and objectively, empty. I really don't care about these organizations whose members we are, what members we are, how many members we are, these are international obligations and so on. I am interested in the content of what should be the 2014 Work Report. And before I begin to subscribe this report, which gives in the table view, those who understand in this energy sector will be able to understand what it says here, those who don't understand each other. and they need to read this, they'll have a very vague, total energy balance in Bosnia and Herzegovina... At least that sentence could have been positive. We have more production than the current real needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then, now you need to start with the tables. It's very interesting how to import the energy we export, import the energy we export, I'm very precise. So someone's going to have to answer me how this Aluminium Mostar imports something that the power plants export, in what way? Or Voter Zvornik, imports something that the Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska exports. So, it exports electricity to Serbia, and then imports it for its own purposes. So that's what you need to read, that's what you need to see. The special category is citizens in a country where social tension is all the way to the end, where the real economic situation of an individual leads to absurdity. We said free market and then we took the busses into three parts and let your mother sign the contract with the RS Power Company to use the electricity they produce. Is that possible? But the Elektroprivreda BiH is forcing me to sign the contract, because I have no other supplier, and you gave freedom to the market. The same is true in Banja Luka, let him sign if possible with elektroprivreda HRHB. No, no, impossible. The market is occupied, and it is said to be market freedom. Since the 01st of January, we officially have the freedom of the market in the purchase and the right to use electricity. Well, I'm interested in where that freedom is, and I'm asking FERK to let me sign the contract I want. You're the regulator, you're the regulator, give us that chance as citizens, but not just citizens, but businesses. If we're already importing, then give her a chance to choose for themselves. You know, when they're wanted here, and in the 2006-2010 term, one MP or, we'll give him a name, Halilović Sefer asked for contracts to export electricity to Serbia. It has been stated that this is the highest degree of secrecy. And he could never win those contracts. How is that possible? Why? And he also asked for contracts as objectively as the exit point of that energy came out. She didn't come out at all, she didn't move from Bosnia, only those power lines went towards Aluminium, towards Alins, the money and the charge went through Bograd. How is that possible? What was going on here? How is it possible today to have no insight into export contracts, under what conditions? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] About the sale, yes, yes. We say it's export. Let's see how much it's really exported. How is that possible, because according to what you've given in the tables, you can see that we're exporting a little bit, importing a little bit. We export what we produce, and then we import what we produce. That's very strange. In the Development Strategy, in this Commission, one member of the Federation Commission is the man I've sat with a dozen times and it's about the strategy for the development of the electricity sector, Salkić, you remember it well, and everyone says that it doesn't exist, so the four books that were made before the disaster that happened, the war, and then with the help of those who are today in the world elite, by the academics of Hanjalić, you remember, and so in order not to list people, the complete ones, and today they claim that it is not there. You need to pay again to make a strategy. Send me a written request, all four books I will gladly give you and complete that video material related to the Development Strategy that was presented in the Federal Parliament Hall at the time. I own it completely, so you know. It wouldn't be bad, 'cause we're here talking about what we have, how much we have. People are re-examining, giving money for geothermal waters where it's impossible, what the money was given 30 years ago, they're re-examining the Wind Roses. A map of rose winds made since '82. By '91, it was all over. That hasn't changed in Bosnia at all. Then there was thought about wind power plants, solar, geothermal, hydro, all of that existed. And it all exists today. And what 35 tells us is that some, dear Bog, I don't know what moves, from Vranduk, you remember Vranduk, well, from Vranduk and beyond, what they're telling us, it's all planned back 15, 20, 30, 40 and 50 years. In order for it to be, you, as a regulator, to simplify to those who consume this information, is-is-to-to-set. They have to, because this is what a journalist needs to understand now, a citizen needs to understand, because he's the biggest consumer. He needs to know who and why, he needs to know who and why he's going to take it from, if he's given the right to choose. You can do that, but I've surrounded you with space. Right, it can, but if you move from that part to another part of the country, otherwise you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6756	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6757	Well, here's to it, since the electric waist is not my narrow waist, I hate to talk about these topics. A few things in this report encouraged me to say a few words after all. First of all, as other colleagues have noticed, the graphic level and the visual level of this report, I would go in one other direction and I would say that this might encourage us to perhaps bring or insist here for ourselves at a uniform level of reporting towards this House and graphically and nomotechnically and contentally, I would say. And I would personally like that level in the graphics section to be somewhere between this report and the usual level of report that we get, because it's really not a question of money. Today, the graphic level of the spiral undertaking doesn't cost almost anything, so it might unify the model and in this part of the reporting for this House would be good. Here, that we don't have this expensive report, but that we don't have those reports scattered around our bags or I don't know where. The second thing I noticed was that two members of the Commission had already expired their mandate in the Derk. And then one wording that they, in accordance with the usual practice so far, are still working. This common practice so far, it seems to me that responsibility is here, not entirely, on us, but it would be good to disappear. Third thing I've noticed, picture seven in this report. I don't know who was paying attention, it's a comparison of the prices of different electric companies. In our country there are four, four are prices. And here we can see that the prices of electricity and in the power industry HZHB are the highest. This price is particularly high in the economy, in the case of commercial users, etc. ... 04 and 35. That might not bother me, and I might find some logical reasons for that, if only a few lines further did not say that the company in 2013 achieved a record profit. And even if I don't know that with the 2014 profits, the management of the same company, in some of the status talks and management, doesn't defend how, so there's no point in touching a successful administration. Here, that's exactly what I wanted to say, right here in this picture seven, we see how successful management becomes. Sell us down a little more expensive electricity and you're a successful management. The fourth thing that I noticed when we were talking about the Derk Report I would say is what gentlemen did in this visual part, because Derk is such an organization, a high-professional organisation with high-level jobs that relatively small circle people can read competently, with jobs for which they don't have somehow defined detailed deadlines and it's very likely to work easily. I see they did a specific job, regulated heading 36 positions for the price of electricity in the Brcko District. Again, if you see picture 7 you will see that the electricity for all consumers in Brcko District is the cheapest. And I'd really like it to be Derk who's gonna regulate the price of electricity for me, if that's how he regulates it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6758	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6759	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will seek to be as brief as possible and to say that the SDS MPs' Club will not and cannot support this Report, primarily for one crucial reason why we see in this report that Derk implies a conceptual solution to the organisation of the future single electricity market and the jurisdiction of regulators at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities that are not in line with constitutional arrangements. Furthermore, it is said that the final result of the project "Creating a legislative framework for electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina" is in line with the EU's legal heritage, a harmonised set of draft new laws, and in some cases the draft amendments and additions of existing laws for state, entity and district level, and it is concluded that not even 12 months after the transmission of the draft law to the regulator and the electricity market in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other laws from this set, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has launched activities to adopt this document. It is important to point out that this is primarily about unfinished work material of a foreign consulting house, not any draft law in the form that is prescribed in the way certain legal solutions are made. Furthermore, we find it inadmissible that in the Derk Report it itself attributes itself to the responsibility of the future gas regulator. It may be a solution, but it should be a political decision of the Council of Ministers. Such decisions cannot be suggested by Derk at all, and come out of his power. So these are some basic reasons that we believe Derk has entered political decisions that need not be mixed up and further makes it difficult for us to support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6760	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6761	So, I'm, I'm sorry, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Novaković, we've had this report on our Committee and it seems to me that some similar conclusion we've made to the Council of Ministers as suggested by the SBB Club, so to be seen from... packages, to be delivered by the Council of Ministers to the Committee. However, we said, so I'm just warning you, so let's see if there's any solution to that conclusion in common between the Commission and what the SBB Club suggested. Now, I'm sorry the chairman isn't here to say it, that's how we discussed this report, but here's the deal, just so you know. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6762	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6763	I thank the chairman. The colleagues in the discussion have not yet mentioned one, in my opinion, a very significant part of the report that is on page 2. It refers to the composition and organisation of the work of the State Regulatory Commission. The report states that two members of the Commission are in some mandated status where they serve as members of the Commission, as their mandates expired, Mr Mirsad Salkić on 29 December 2014 and Mr Nikola Pejić on 23 September 2012. Therefore, in some ways, it is specific for such an important commission that the relevant parliaments and all those responsible for the appointment of members are related in this way, i.e. that it is not a good practice at all, although the ambience in which we work in Bosnia and Herzegovina knows such practices and unfortunately it is repeated, not only in this commission, but also in many other responsible agencies and various bodies are very often working in a mandate that has expired. It is therefore stated that two members are appointed in the procedure. I think you'd fit me in with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure were able to make a recommendation to the Federation Government and the Federation Parliament to carry out the selection procedure of the members of the committee in question in priority, priority and within shorter legal time limits, and to deliver the appointments before Parliament to the Council of Ministers for a further appointment procedure. It is also noticeable that the report very smurders weaknesses in the work so far, better to say about the blockade of the work of Elektroprenos is nothing contained except that since 2007, almost nothing could be done, that planned investments have remained. We've all been following up on these political problems that have been related to the work of Elektroprenos. What may be encouraging is that in 2014 there is noticeable activity and that the necessary documents have been adopted that will, above all, enable investment in the electricity system. It is very important for us in local communities that Elektroprenos invests and that in 110 kilovolt lines, the necessary investments are provided for the takeover of electricity. I also sought to highlight the need and importance of investing in the electricity sector in my parliamentary issues, i.e. that many local communities are suffering very big problems because this investment period is missing, so we can say from 2007 to 2013. We therefore expect this Investment Plan to be implemented in 2015 and, of course, we expect priority and important projects that are set out in this Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6764	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Here you are, Mr. Nikola Pejić, chairman of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6765	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs. I am Nikola Pejić, chairman of this mandate at the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. 38 Before I try to answer these questions, I would like to point out that the competence of the State Regulatory Commission is over the transmission of electricity, an independent system operator, international trade and international co-operation and power competence in the Brcko District. As you know at entity level, there are entity regulators responsible for production, distribution and supply of electricity. That is why I note this because a large number of these discussions and questions cannot apply to us. When we start with the first question why this report is like this, this is our 11. The report and we are one of the institutions that has always had affirmatively accepted reports. At first they were in standard, not to say on the copy of the material, but the regulatory practice in the environment has imposed such design, because we often exchange and deliver these reports and neighbouring countries, members and international institutions, you have seen there both eras and energy communities and the number is, I say, limited, not too much, but we believe that the representatives deserve this form of the Report and it processes in a unique way and that information that we do not have in other documents, and at the same time our Report. And just when someone mentioned the cost of costing, I note that every time the report goes to, in principle of public procurement, it goes to tendering and this report was the most favourable of Sarajevo companies this time. When it comes to, uh, the issue relating to the obstruction of the Management Board of Elektroprenos, we have found that. We've been doing our activities, but we need to know that the Management Board of Elektroprenos has both its owners and we've found that it's been removed from obstruction by the selection of new members of the Management Board, and we can't practically stand behind those activities that were not at the time. We couldn't say anything more influencing those memos and the foreign trade ministries, entity ministries and the foreign trade ministry that had insight into it, and it's probably a political reason that the problem couldn't be solved. Here one of the MPs would have said – problems in the work of Derk. We don't have a registered problem in the operation of the Derk, and so far, I'm saying our reports are always accepted, we have a consensus obligation, and that's what we're, we're doing at a certain level. When it comes to the energy community, we wanted to name the problem here, we believe that this is being addressed in the competent Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and that is why we potential and cite these activities. We had the same discussion yesterday and at the Commission's session when the conclusion was to be sought, a similar conclusion as Mr Đonlagić said, that the Ministry of Foreign Trade provided information on status and activities, when it comes to resolving the problem, noting that Bosnia and Herzegovina was leading some 7-8 years ago when it came to the application of energy laws relating to the energy community and the EU, but that there was a stalemate in activities and work so that we could see what it was like. I'd also like to refer here to this issue of activity, which concerns the adoption of a new law. The Derk does not carry out any activities outside its legal obligation, but supports activities and suggests international obligations, and does not propose solutions. I think we made that clear in the report. So, we support, we suggest, we look, we have some attitudes, but we didn't bring them out here because we don't think it is, meaning some experience, the knowledge we have so far from practice we're ready to do, but we can't possibly suggest or insist on a legal solution. When it comes to opening the market from the Derk aspect, I note again, the other two Derk entity regulators have implemented and provided all conditions for free access to bidders. Which is why there's no bidder at the household level, which is now, if I don't continue to elaborate, I'd like this report to practically have a green light on you. This applies to both the price and the fact that 39 have no bidders who are willing at such low prices, no matter how large they seem to us, to enter the market and supply households. When it comes to medium voltage, there is already another situation and there are bidders and already some companies are supplied with electricity from, say, traders and international ones. The Energy Sector Strategy was also mentioned. It's tačan that she doesn't exist at the state level. Derk supports it, insists that it is done in some way, but cannot affect how it will be done and when it will be finished. When it comes to the composition and work and organisation of the work of a member of the Commission, we, in accordance with the legal obligation, note during a certain period of time, and two months before the end of the term of office, are delivering letters to the competent institutions to expire on us, I am one of those to whom the mandate has expired, and occasionally we provide a reminder that this, which is why it is not done, is probably why you have information that would not have elaborated them, but there is our obligation to remain in that position until the election, or re-election of a new one. I don't know if I made it, and they have colleagues there, so if you need more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6766	I think you've explained everything that should have been explained. Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, and that's it, Ad. Seven. Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2014 The report was delivered in the procedure on 14/05/2015. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as responsible for considering the Report. The committee responsible for the report delivered its opinion on 09.06.2015. The Commission took note of the report and suggested that the House do the same. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6768	Thank you. Well, I would just, therefore, one small intervention when it comes to recommendations, it's somewhere on page 148, or 149. It seems to me that, for both the importance and all that we've been doing and when we've had some points on this, or some subjects, that on page 149, we should put these recommendations on page 1, 2 and 3 and then move on, as they stand here on page 148 below 1. So, under the 1st, it would be - to put in the procedure for amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law established in the framework of the Interresor Working Group's work, that's on page 149. It would be my first recommendation, the second one would be to carry out Sejdić – Finc and the third Constitutional Court in Mostar, and then to continue to line up. I think it's more important than being put here somewhere in the report. A little technical remark nothing more. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6769	Give me your word, Borjan.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6770	The speaker, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6771	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you some information you may not have, and I appreciate that you should have it, so that we can have a complete picture of these reports that came from the Central Election Commission. So, the Central Election Commission was talking to both of us at home and we had a meeting yesterday and there are some things that I appreciate that you need to know, and one thing in particular, so. This Commission monitors the implementation of the Electoral Law and other laws which I would say are accompanied by this Electoral Law, so when it comes to the electoral process, the Council of Ministers Act, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. It was a recent and conflict of interest law and there was one thing that I think is interesting that you know. I don't think it's right that we did what we did in the last session, so we excluded the conflict of interest from the responsibility of the Central Election Commission, I think it should have stayed with that institution. I think in the future, we're going to have to go back to some legal solution and practice that we've had from backwards, say, six or seven years when that practice started going the way it shouldn't. But here, we exempt or took the Law on Conflict of Interest, and they want the Law on Conflict of Interest to be given to competent institutions, but the problem is now that some institutions within Bosnia and Herzegovina are demanding the institutions of the Central Election Commission and the Election Commission to deal with conflicts of interest. So, at this time I call on the Brcko District Assembly of BiH, if they follow me, here is their representative to be in the Council of Ministers, to consider this situation that is related to the conflict of interest at the Brcko District level and the task they have given to the election commission of the Brcko District of BiH to deal with this problem. I don't think anyone has the right to give any institution in the field of the electoral process, so neither to the Central Election Commission nor to local election committees any obligations and tasks other than the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which passed the Electoral Law and under the law. I, therefore, call on them before we enter perhaps some other waters, to challenge, etc., to consider this solution and to see if it is the smartest, and I call on the Central Election Commission to invite representatives of the authority of the Brcko District of BiH and to discuss this matter. I believe that what has been done has been done more as a product of perhaps misunderstanding of the position of the electoral bodies in the framework of the electoral process than of some people's intentions, or authority in the Brcko District of BiH. I ask you, therefore, that you, too, make contact on your part to resolve this situation, I would say, to the satisfaction of all of us without any disputes and without any problems. And the other thing I want to say in your report, which I spoke about at the Constitutional Commission session itself, is something that we already have as a problem in the work of the overall electoral administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a matter of the work of the election committees. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina must finally get the strength and change existing solutions. In 2007, here in Parliament, we had one solution that defined the different position of the voter committees' 41 elections, and then, to the intervention of some smaller political parties, by amending that solution, which was agreed in the Commission, was put out of force, was practically annulled. And I think a great deal of damage was done at that time by the overall election process and the integrity of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. An Interresor Working Group has been formed to work on amendments to electoral legislation, including the Election Law, and I invite you, especially from the Central Election Commission, to take care of this matter and propose a model that will be best for our electoral system and guarantee that what is placed in the ballot boxes, ballot boxes, will be read as an election result. I fear that in some situations we have a discrepancy in practice when it comes to what the voter did and what was later identified or read as the final result. I don't think here about relations between political parties, subjects take a lot of care about it, it's not a problem, I think about preferences in open lists, and it's something that has to be taken special care of how, therefore, to keep it and to prevent possible abuses and, let's say, to prevent the registration of political entities that register in the electoral process just to exercise the right to voter committees and later make certain types of trade, which is, of course, the opposite of the meaning of the Electoral Law itself. I could do it for a long and long time, but I think these two are quite enough as information and, here's my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6772	Thank you, Chairman. Agent Arnaut came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6773	Thank you. I will first and foremost refer to the first recommendation made by the Central Election Commission again in this Report, as it was also the first recommendation of the Central Election Commission in their report on the implementation of the General Elections 2014 and this recommendation concerns ensuring the completion of the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH in accordance with the provisions of the Federation Constitution, which requires 17 Bošnjak, 17 Hrvat, 17 Srbin and 7 delegates from the Order of the Others. As I think all known Club delegates from the Serb people in the House of Peoples of the Federation are currently not filled in accordance with these provisions because there are 4 delegates missing from the order of the Serb people and this Club numbers 13 delegates, while the clubs of the other two constituent peoples, specifically Bosniak and Croatian, which is as prescribed, i.e. 17 delegates. How did you know we had from the SBB's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law that would resolve this in the same way as the Central Election Commission recommended in its 2014 Election Implementation Report. So, as they wrote the recommendation in that previous report, we just translated it into the form of a bill and offered it to this Parliament. The ruling majority, however, rejected the bill's proposal, voted against it without any explanation. Therefore, the competent commission has not entitled to give an explanation and this bill has been rejected and therefore we still have an unfulfilled club from the Serb people's House of the Federation Peoples because of this ruling majority. That is why the second time the Central Election Commission of BiH warns about this problem and how things are now, how this ruling majority works is almost certain that the club will remain unfulfilled, 42 regardless of what representatives of the Serbian Civil Council have recently sought as soon as possible to amend and supplement the BiH Election Law, in order to finally resolve the issue. However, the ruling coalition is absolutely not taking any action on this issue. Let me also go back to something that I should have done at the very beginning, which I did at the session of the Constitutional Commission, which is to thank the Central Election Commission of BiH for this extremely extensive, extensive and useful report. I think this is an example of how in one rational and economical way a quality report can be presented and I think that it is more important for MPs, at least those who are primarily interested in their work, to get such useful information than a type of paper, especially if it is significantly cheaper and more rational. Now I will also look back on what the Central Election Commission of BiH, in this Report, has, in all public statements, reports, information, working groups, round tables, etc., identified as the weakest link of the election process, which is the work of the election committees. Mr Džaferović, I can't help but notice, although he left the session, I can't help but notice that he was talking about a 2007 proposal, so two mandates ago of this Parliament, eight years ago, and we are in the era of electronic voting. So he's not talking about the Internet, and they're dreaming about electronic voting, about electronic machines. So, if the voter comes to the polls,... it does, the vote is done through the electronic voting system, absolutely impossible, the possibilities of malversion are excluded, and the results of the election are available immediately after the vote is closed, because the vote is registered, not only in the polling post, but also in the municipal election commission, cantonal, entity, at the entity level, all the way to the Central Election Commission and to the minority right after the polls are closed, we have election results for all levels of government. So, not only the simplest ones to count as the BiH presidency, but also the most complex ones such as cantonal congregations, including the order of candidates, and the malversions are almost impossible, as members of the election committees no longer exist as the relevant link in this process. So we rule out that weakest link from the whole process. There would still be a need for, here if we were to continue to call them members of the election boards but only in terms of technical staff, so who will direct the voters to the cabin, to find out that it is the person who presents the ID card, etc., but these persons, those members of the election committees, who would now have only one technical role, would not participate in the vote counting. So, the Central Election Commission, despite a really worrying lack of process of theft, electoral theft, is clearly aware that these thefts are happening, because it would not be called the weakest link in the election process unless you are aware that there are electoral malversions happening. What is also important to note is that the past elections are 54% of the budget for the 2014 General Elections were spent only on fees to members of the election boards, which is over 4 million marks, 4.5 million marks to be precise. So, 54% of the 2014 general elections budget was spent on election board members only, and these election board members are the weakest link in the entire election process and the place where these malversions happen. So, not only do we have the weakest link, not only is that the weakest link is because it's doing the malfeasance, but it's getting paid fat, it's getting 54% of the election budget. In particular, 4.5 million marks are given to this weakest link in order for it to actually implement something that these parties, over 20 years in power, enjoy. And for that reason, there is no wonder that the composition of the SDA, HDZ, SNSD Interresor Working Group means that parties that have the greatest interest in remaining such a system as it is with members of the electoral committees. And that is why it is no surprise that Mr. Džaferović is talking about reforming the election committees that someone once proposed in 2007, and we are deep in the era of electronic voting. So he's pulling us on the wrong track. Here, the financial 43 element is a non-existent, so there's no financial justification if you every 2 years, this isn't every 4, every 2 years 54% of the election budget goes to members of the election boards, just for their fees. That's 4.5 million marks every two years. Therefore, there are no financial barriers to the introduction of this electronic system. We have heard from a representative of the ruling coalition that voters are not sufficiently profiled, some have even spoken and educated, etc., I think it is underestimating the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it absolutely does not stand. And here's one example: India introduced the so-called so-called '84.' The pilot project, because all these electronic voting systems are starting with pilot projects. Set up electronic machines at, say, 20 polling stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, possibly different types of electronic voting, you see which works best, but in the next elections you have half the polling stations covered in this way and for two or three election cycles you have the complete territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina covered. So, with a billion inhabitants, India introduced a pilot project in '84. for years and already within 10 years she had her entire territory covered by an electronic voting system. So, I'm talking about a country that has over a billion inhabitants and that the same night, when elections are held, has full results for all its levels of government, and we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been waiting for these results for over 30 days, and we have 3.5 million inhabitants around and territory that you can cross from north to south by 5 hours at most. And India, then, can introduce this, and someone is questioning the profiling of our citizens. Well, don't underestimate our citizens, our citizens are absolutely able to use an electronic voting system in the 21st century. So when it comes to electoral committee reform, if you're going that way, it just means that you want to paint the weakest link to make it look like it's not the weakest link anymore, but it's going to remain the weakest link. So the only way to prevent these electoral thefts is by introducing an electronic voting system and finally joining Bosnia and Herzegovina with other countries that have already entered the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6774	Thank you. The word has a representative, Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6775	Thank you. Given the overall experience in the electoral processes and how the Central Election Commission works and what I participated in in most election cycles, I must say that the report you gave, as far as I'm concerned, will be supported because you gave it very correctly. But in the overall work, this is no longer about the Central Election Commission, because you have no tentacles, arms, and you are not an octopus that can cover the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the real link for non-transparent, or if we are finally going to say the incorrect presentation of our election results in all cycles is the end points, which are election commissions. And that's the ones who are in the election seats, and the rules that the Central Election Commission has that don't allow for an analytical review because any complaints from political entities only get adopted if you have any more evidence. When I personally signed and asked for a count in a number of polling stations, it was responsible that this could not significantly affect, etc., although the findings were next – out of 14 members of one family who voted for the same person, the person had only 44 votes in the polling post. It's not about whether it's important, it's about stealing. So I can imagine how much was stolen then for those who were pretending to be the first when only one person of 14 members of a family was counted one single vote. And you didn't let it count at such a polling station. I'm going to set an example of Central Bosnia where we've been looking for a count in one village, where it's simply amazing data, and how it's just being set up for only 3 votes by one political entity not to enter the Canton Assembly and not to get a representative in the Federal Parliament. Only for three votes, and that's very indicative. And we listed by the name and last name those who formally voted, and they didn't approach the polling post at all, and there it's impossible for a man who is far outside of Bosnia and Herzegovina at that moment to vote but who voted, and so in turn, you have a lot of it. So you have to access something that will give legitimacy and change this general suspicion of fraud. And to do that one of the roads is to introduce an electronic vote, it's one of the roads. And since the political options that I represent are all in our favour and in our direct talks with the Central Election Commission, including you, Mr Mikić, this is what we were talking about, is the introduction of an electronic voting system. Because it's absurd that in certain places you have 20, 30% invalids. When you look at the structure of the invalids then you see, interestingly, always one political option, so in all 30% is one and then added another and so the ballot is invalid. How can it be the same on each one? I guess that's quite clear that it's a political theft. Also as an MP, as someone who is, who advocates legitimacy, i.e. for the legality of the work that has been taken from you, which is the decision on conflict of interest is inappropriate. Today we have the instruments that the ruling structures, or those who have decided to rule life and death in this country, decide what is a conflict of interest. And there will never be those who, in the real conflict of interest, are put in a position to either respond or be eliminated, but through that instrument, will be dealt with politically with by the opponents, it is undivided, instead of being completely independent, at least those chosen in the election cycle, because he decides for himself, which is inappropriate. It is necessary to find a way to return the electoral law to whoever is responsible for the electoral cycle to decide on jurisdiction and conflict of interest. I'll give an example, you remember that I cited it and I was answered, then Mrs. Lidija Korać was on the Central Election Commission, because it was written cannot be from uncles, from dajdja, from aunts, from amidja, from this, from that, it was the beauty of those who couldn't be found anywhere, and I listed him, directly, by the name of Hoze Marija Backović, the president of Chile's father's image son. Am I in conflict of interest now? Yes, I am. I am. I am. I am. I'm just an example of what absurdity all this is going to, what absurdity. That is why it is necessary to really sit down and by what we have in what we seek, the EU, to see how, how and who determines when someone is and in what degree of conflict of interest. Nowhere does a parliamentary commission decide for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6776	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6777	Thank you very much. Here, I intended very briefly to comment under this item of the agenda – Report of the Central Election Commission for 2014, although we had one information from the Central Election Commission concerning the course of the last General Elections in 2014. 45 years old. What I'm saying is that content and methodologically, in any case, this Report deserves every praise, it contains everything that is relevant to this Central Election Commission from the aspect of legislation, sublegislative acts, to all other activities on which it has worked means the basis of these laws and sublegislative acts, the Central Election Commission, from the participation of interresor working groups to the proposal for amendments to the legislation, to the recommendations, here, which we have heard and which, in some ways, someone here has also commented. What I would like to point out is that for me, the Central Election Commission has indeed been one institution where the democratic system in Bosnia and Herzegovina rests, but we have all slightly forgotten that the OHR institution, or the international representative, has somehow shaken those foundations of democratic establishment, I would say to Bosnia and Herzegovina, through my mandate, which was passed in March 2011 at the time of the establishment of a government at the level of the Federation of BiH. This warrant, which is on a temporary basis and today, has suspended the decisions of the Central Election Commission and stands in the warrant, means everything else brought about in this regard. I think it is time that, within the framework of this Report and the Central Election Commission and our House of Representatives in some way, we call on the OHR that this order, which was issued by the basis of the High Representative's mandate, means on a temporary basis, that it is still today and that it is certainly not a good basis for the functioning of democratically Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, no matter what is not related to 2014, I personally think that it is something that should in some way look back on this report, until the moment these decisions are withdrawn, because I really think that we are all aware that the democratic system is resting exclusively that, I would say, on the Constitution so on the electoral law which is the basis of it and until so long as we have such tasks, whether on a temporary or permanent basis, we can hardly talk about building Bosnia and Herzegovina as a democratic state. Here's my proposal and the OHR, which follows us, that this warrant, which is on a temporary basis, withdraws, and in such a way as to recover, I would say, and trust in an institution which, in some ways, has been violated by this, this warrant. So Bosnia and Herzegovina simply brings into life in the right sense the basis of the Electoral Law as a democratic institution, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina as a democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6778	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mladen Bosić, the vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6779	I regret to repeat that the Election Commission is one of the institutions that has best done its job since the Dayton Agreement has been concluded so far and always in difficult conditions and hard work because elections are the source of any kind of corruption and machination that man can think of. It is such a process not only for us but also for other countries, especially for those who do not have a democracy that has lived for more than 30 or 40 years. I'd just like to take this opportunity to say that it's high time we agreed on the adoption of a new electoral law, that it's been a very long time and that we've seen a lot of things that should be corrected in the next period. And so far, it has been tried, at least five or six times, but unsuccessfully because of various interests that have different political groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In part, the Electoral Law, but also other laws, have actually made it possible for the electoral corruption and corruption of the entire electoral process. The situation we currently have in Republika Srpska, and probably stolen from the Federation, is open political corruption. This corruption is devising the entire election process. If you are addressing voters with one programme and after that when they give you a vote of 46, you go to the opposite camp and represent a completely opposite programme, then democratic elections can't be called democratic, then it's a trade and then it's a source of corruption. It's just one of the segments that should be considered when changing this election law. There are many more segments that we have been discussing here for years about the report in the Election Commission, and I therefore call on all the political factors to finally reach a common solution that will make the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina more democratic at all levels than they have now or have been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6780	Thank you. Mr. Fehim Škaljić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6781	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the missing Council of Ministers, members of the Central Election Commission and others, good afternoon to you. Democracy is a foundation without which Bosnia and Herzegovina will not have its future, and it begins and is determined by the electoral process and by the quality of the results of the election process. The report we have ahead of us can be supported, because it was done on the basis of professionalism and arguments, but the elections and its attainable democracy cannot pass. Bosnia and Herzegovina has failed to build an election process that ensures transparency of citizens' will. There are provisions in the law, there's an outcast of what's unsettled in the law. As a result, we have a trade in election results, especially at lower levels when we see that an individual simply has a fatal impact on the formation of power, that it is actually traded for money. We have a process that buys the right to attend polling stations and a lot more. All of this in citizens is expressed through mistrust of the elections and therefore we have a low percentage of turnout, especially those categories of population that can contribute to their potential and knowledge of social change, these are young people. For this reason, we in Parliament today, when we talk about the elections, must conclude that the situation is mature for a radical change in organisational, technical, legislative and mobilization of the entire population to see the elections as an opportunity to change the situation with their own will. We don't have that today. That's why I'm an advocate not to repair what showed ineffectiveness, but to approach the application of a new model. It implies increasing the censorship and opening different principles of responsibility and avoiding what was available in the election process a hundred years ago – variant paper, walking addition and a month after the election, in a small election base such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, to find out what is on the dream. The European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the need to speed up the time we have used irrationally over the past period, is seeking to modernise the whole process. We are advocates, I advocate that personality, collectiveism and technological progress are integrated in the new election law resolution and that we make the efficiency that enables us. I also want to say this to come from a political party that won't go to local elections unless the law changes, there's no point. We do not want to be a surrogate of a process in which the manipulation of the will of citizens forms power. Because it is simply not a question of who will be sitting in these benches, but the question is whether we are going to create an ambiance to move to Bosnia and Herzegovina, what citizens are looking for, by Euro-Atlantic means. Let's take us here, take the methodology of how we work, take these 13 sessions of Parliament, and then put it at the level of what's waiting for us 47 on Aki. And when do we get there? Never. That is why the new electoral law, which is why the electronic basis for the technical principles of implementation of the electoral process, and giving up on what is a stereotype. The game to fill in election committees by social, political and family... the intransparency of this process is simply what we don't need. We also know in the past that the Central Election Commission is growing in its development, but we know from the past that we have had a situation where certain members of the Central Election Commission need to be filled, that there is anxiety in political parties. Why? Why nervousness if it's a process that's out of political influence or not? All this, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason for Bosnia and Herzegovina's new approach to the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6782	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6783	Dear colleague, my former spokeer, I must, when you speak of this, means this is not a replica but a confirmation, but there is no way but that since I have to tell you this replica, you must say that this political trade that is being achieved through the way of the electoral process has been brought to absurdity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The political transfers of those who enter parliaments with a hundred votes and then through the floscule elected by the people give me the legitimacy of those who are harassing the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That political, these political converts, converts just because we don't have an adequate electoral process, they can do it. Gentlemen from Central Elections are taking a financial report from political entities, and you don't have people there, so political entities invest in promoting political programmes and ideas, and then those they promote, through political conversion, put a knife in the backs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, adding to those who decide on their lives. And there's no way to stop it. Let's see where in democratic practice you have it in Germany, in Austria, in France, in Spain, in Great Britain, in, because of the way the electoral process is with us it's very possible that, I said, a man with 100 votes says I've been chosen by the people and I'm going to do what I want now. And then we have what we have in the country today, they say unstablely, we have a situation where the assembly of political converts is all boiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6784	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6785	I'm glad I served Mr. Backović to have the opportunity to say, whether, uh, this is actually an example of using a replica in a way that is simply not what was said but an opportunity to get the same as in the election process we do some things to get, not that is the essence. We have to say, we are nothing here that is bound to anyone but the voters and the political programmes that we have set out. And Mr. Bosić for a reason introduced a dimension of change in performance compared to what was promised. I think we should put these things into legal solutions. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6786	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6787	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I really must respond to Mr Backović's findings, that there is no way to address the issue of political corruption, trade, etc. There is, Mr. Backović, there is a way and he is in the hands of the D.A., who sits here, who unfortunately doesn't do the job. We had an affair of the rat, a video of "Two Pockets" where it's clearly about political corruption and trade. If it was political trade and corruption, then we chose political corruption and delegates in the House of Peoples, which gives direct authority to the BiH Prosecutor's Office to react. Until today, we've had no reaction from any single prosecution in this country. So there's a way, but obviously we have a problem in the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6788	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6789	Thank you. Chairman, if you can just run it as a business intervention. So again, Articles 184 and 185. Rules of Procedure, I think we're at the next point, uh, no representatives of the Council of Ministers. You see, we're talking about the Central Election Commission's report on law enforcement from her jurisdiction, I don't want to say that this point is more important, the Rules of Procedure is very clear they have to be here from the moment the anthem is intonated until you conclude the vote. So the Rules of Procedure are very clear. This just confirms why at the very beginning we were voting on the election and the chairman and his team, as he presented it, said that this team had no capacity to implement what he had promised, and this is now a confirmation. The team that has promised various reforms does not have the capacity to be present, so almost no session of the House, and this is 13 or 14 if I am not mistaken, almost no committee meeting, although the Rules of Procedure in Article 185 prescribes that there may be ministerial assistants on the committees. So, we're talking about when House sessions are about where the Council of Ministers can represent the chairman, or ministers, or even their deputies, we're talking about 20 people, the chairman of 9 ministers plus 10 deputies, that's 20 people, and more than half of them, more than half of them have offices in this building on the third or fourth floor, and we're on the second. More than half of these 20 people have offices on the third or fourth floor
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6790	Mr. Arnaut, thank you, you've made it clear what you've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6791	I have three minutes, Mr. Chairman. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6792	You don't, you don't, you do, you say you repeat the same, so you repeat the same thing you've already said.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6793	Well, I know it doesn't suit you, but I'm entitled to three minutes for business intervention, according to my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6794	So you can't do the same business twice in a row, I gave you the answers once. Don't, Mr Arnaut I beg you don't harass this House, I will begin to warn you, I will begin strictly to apply the Rules of Procedure to you as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6795	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6796	You know, I'm warning you that by working this way, you're abusing the position of MPs and you're harassing this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6797	Mr. Chairman, I am entitled to 3 minutes in the Rules of Procedure and I am now asking for both my business interventions to be entered into the minutes, so a business intervention on the presence of the Council of Ministers, and also a business intervention by limiting my right to the three minutes that the Rules of Procedure gives me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6798	So thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6799	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. Today we are actually talking about the report on law enforcement, not the report on the work of the Central Stab Commission, and if we are looking at it that way then by adopting this report, we actually want to say that the Central Election Commission has been working successfully on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission. And right away, I think she did, I think she did the job successfully, and this report needs Parliament's support. The second question is, Is there anything that may have left a shadow on the job in the previous year, or in previous elections? I have to say, there are some things. I'm going to bring here a case of election in Kotor Varosh, an emergency election, where a fully conscious head of the municipality has done an election obstruction. The Central Election Commission made one decision, then the court made a second decision and then the Central Election Commission acted, so it was not 50 that the court decided that it was not a good decision, but pointed out some failures in the decision-making process, the Central Election Commission subsequently amended its decision. So there were some problems, and we have to say that. And it's simply a shame that such events, in fact, are what, here and thus allowed elected officials in this country to obstruct the laws for which, in this case, he was in charge of implementing the CEC, but otherwise other regulations. As far as future activities are concerned, of course the CEC is expected to be formed in the Working Group, which is designed to bring about a new text of the Election Law or of the change in the existing one, to make a full contribution to the issues they have seen having problems implementing the law. So where there is something unclear, where it is not clear enough, the Central Election Commission will be key to the work of this Working Group to change those provisions. Of course, everyone mentions committees, and I have to mention that it is the weakest link, but I think that by one move, the importance of the election committees can be significantly reduced, which is to go back to counting centres. So, the moment we have the counting centres again, the moment the election committees are going to be much smaller. And they will play an exclusive role in organising the process, the electoral process, and in no case will they play a decisive role in the number of votes, which unfortunately happened, and not only in this, but in almost all elections, that there are polling stations where some candidates had 90 per cent and more votes. It's absolutely clear to all of us that it's impossible. So there are ways to solve certain issues easily. Of course, they have one that will remain a problem. The Central Election Commission must contribute to the work of the Working Group, and whether it will be adopted or not, thank Bog it will depend on us here. Unfortunately, so far we have not had a critical majority for some major changes in the Electoral Law. I hope that in our minds we have evolved enough that we need a serious change of the Election Law and that it will happen in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6800	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6801	... I'm looking for a 15-minute break... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6802	So, at the request of the SBB Club break for 15 minutes, but since there will be a break at 14:00 hours that is scheduled, you have the right to rest, take a break and we will continue to work 14:45 hours. So, 2:45 p.m. Here you go, thank you. The president of the SBB Club asked for a break. Is there any need to explain the break in front of the SBB? 51 please. _________(?) Thank you, Chairman. Since the president of the club didn't show up, I'm the deputy club, so I'll take my right to justify it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6808	Thank you very much, President. So I have read this report thoroughly and because I am informed of what this law regulates and what the Agency can do. And I've seen incredible possibilities, so, to abuse some of our data, so citizens' data, and that this agency has one serious job, and I'm going to do this to monitor and analyze, report us, react where it needs to be. But I've seen one interesting thing about the relationship between the public institutions of this country, and it's the prosecution and these agencies, but I'm going to do it under their report there, I'm not going to waste my time here. But here I just wanted to suggest, given that this agency is in the process of passing laws in the Federal Parliament, when it comes to books of origin, so it warned the Federal Parliament and the leaders there that some of the things they had predicted were wrong and that the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act should be respected. The law has been voted on as it is, so I would suggest, therefore, when it comes to the conclusions of this report, that one conclusion be added that we suggest to Parliament of the Federation of BiH another time to consider the Agency's objections made to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parent Books and the same procedure. So that would be a proposal to supplement one's conclusion with their conclusions. And I would like to add the conclusion 1, 2, actually that is the 3rd conclusion or paragraph that says – the protection of personal data also marked the negative tendencies of certain public..., such as the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and here I would add – and their leaders. So that's what I'm going to write in this conclusion, to add here, because that's where you can see from the fact that the slow was amazing, but it was. And here, that's it. I thank you, and of course, as far as I'm concerned, I'm likely to support this report, too. Here, I suggest that these conclusions be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6809	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Annual report on the results of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution's activities and the Annual Report on the Development of Discrimination in BiH for 2014 The report was delivered in the procedure on 22.05.2015. The House College has appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights as the competent person to consider the report. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the Report on 09.06.2015. The Commission adopted the Report, with a conclusion obliging the BiH Ombudsman to provide the Joint Commission with a detailed review of unrealised recommendations with an explanation of why they were not realised, in order to give 53 to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to which the competent institutions would be obliged to approach the implementation of these recommendations, in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the laws. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Diana Zelenika asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, since I'm reporting for the first time, I welcome everyone here present. I'm going to try to fit in as many minutes as possible, even if I think this deserves even one thematic session, this kind of problem I'm going to try to explain on my own example, but ignore the name, understand that I'm just an example of discrimination in this country. One time someone smarter than me said that for human rights he struggles simply because he doesn't like to see human suffering. So all the sense of our political and social action is essentially woven in one such sentence, because we policy-makers here have committed ourselves to one such mission. But when it comes to the political scene, then clearly one is saying, the other is doing, not saying everything. So here for human rights, I could freely say that, under the supposed signs, they worry and fight the same elites and factions that have been violating human rights for years, and they benefit from it. Today, as I have already announced, when I am elected, I want to be a spokeswoman to all those who have been disproved and I feel free to say that I will be the voice of the people, because I think that the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been disproved. Because an ordinary citizen every day, from the moment he gets up, as he goes to bed, is victimized by at least ten types of discrimination, torture and human rights violations, from those to freedom of opinion, expression, rights to treatment, education, inequality in front of the authorities of justice. I deeply sympathise with these people and share their problems with them, and I'm probably different from many here who are not exposed to such discrimination. I know what people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are experiencing, practically because I'm one of them. For these reasons, I have, not only a commitment, but also a responsibility on their behalf here to speak and look the truth in the eye. Because if we admit one of the fundamental human rights is right to thought and choice. Today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone knows practically everything, everything is known, about politicians, about politicians, and about affairs, and about fraud, but keep quiet. People keep their mouths shut because they're denied the right to say what they think. Because these elites that have used such measures of repression and oppression rarely demonstrate their power, which is a lesson to all those who dare to say and do something according to their own conscience. I was one of the ones who should have learned such a lesson, so I'm going to present to you, in short, a so-called example. The independence of this institution and the inadequacy of the Ombudsman Institution, so I can say the inaccuracy of the Report which says that in the past year, in 2014, on the fine 200 pages, etc., there were no complaints about political discrimination, and I, July 17, or July, complained of human rights violations and precisely that kind of discrimination. And I note to everyone that I was not a representative at the time, because we all know when parliamentary elections were held. I'll brief you on what this is all about. So, after disagreements with the policy of unanimity in 2007 at the Herzegova-Neretva County Assembly, or canton, I declared myself an independent representative. Afterwards, life threats followed, and then political discrimination and mobbing at the workplace, by the same actors. Follow the period from 2010 to today, it is a period of 5 years, on four occasions I applied for promotion at the University of Mostar Medical School. I didn't get an application response once, and the contest was called in the daily press. On requests to explain to me why and how, and the council is three 54 times a year, for those who participate in the course know it well,... The commission didn't give a report, so one gave up, so for the next six months, a new one was formed, so again someone gave up, etc. To infinity. By hiring an attorney's office and seeking an explanation on this issue, the employees of the University and the University of Medical College in Mostar deafen themselves. After that, I complained to all relevant institutions at the level of the county, at the Federation level, however, and there was no answer. And then the next institutional response, I sent somewhere on July 17th, and last year, I addressed the Ombudsman institution with a complaint about political discrimination. After three months, it means 15.10. I received a letter from the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, in which the abovementioned institution, according to my complaint, was asked to submit a statement to all the abovementioned appeals within 15 days. That deadline's long gone, I still haven't received a report from medical school. I received from the Ombudsman's Office, because I activated the problem a few days ago, 10-15 days ago by filing a complaint to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which requested the presentation of the Faculty of Medicine and the Ombudsman, so that a recommendation from the Ombudsman last month would be made on 25th, saying that there were definitely delays made by the Medical Faculty in terms of and procedures, deadlines, content and application of sublegal acts itself, and they are justified. But watch the suggestion, I couldn't believe anyone could sign this, but there's a re-election going on, so it's probably one of the reasons, he says, in the future, that the candidates are allowed to take part in a lecture, which I've been denied, and that the deadlines are respected, and you're careful in my case, these deadlines have been broken for five years. There is no mention of any recommendation in the form of a correction of the gaps made towards me. Apparently, no indicators of discrimination were found, and in the first sentence I complained about politicizing science and political discrimination. Do I have to point out that during this period, people from Zagreb who didn't have an hour's lecture at the... university were getting people who had no conditions at all for that. And the highest absurdity occurred in the last competition where my application was not even taken into account and the doctorate was given to a colleague who defended my doctoral dissertation in front of me. I think this is all telling you, so, ignoring the name and last name, I've already identified myself with all the discriminated people in this country. However, the creators of this condition, the sick state of society, I would say as a doctor, who, under one coat of repression, unambiguously sent my example a clear message to everyone, in principle, burn the witch to no one and never think to have but also to say her own opinion. Because if I am a member of the Association of Volunteers and Veterans of the War, as a doctor of the sub-species cardiologist, as a doctor of science, as a member of the Association, i.e. the Presidency of the Association of Cardiologists of this State, a representative in the county and now in the state legislative bodies exposed to this kind of torture, then clearly that in this kind of adventure of carrying out their own attitudes, people who do not have the possibility of defence mechanisms as I do. In this country it was created to change that adventure to have an own opinion, and discrimination became a tradition and a way of life. The role of our legislators should be to create a legal framework and enable the maximum valorisation of human rights institutions, all that we do not have today or may have, but it is essentially politicized. I think the status quo is basically no good to anyone. Therefore, I invite you dear colleagues and colleagues to think about our children, the generations to come or to come, because it is time for us to leave them a legal state in which human rights will be respected and where the dignity of each individual will be a normal phenomenon, not a rarity. 55 And I will therefore conclude about this izvjeće that it is beautifully written, woven with beautiful words and thoughts, charts, etc., but also contradictory of its own implementation, which can be supported by numerous examples. I've done my part, but at every moment, we have examples like this in every place. If it wasn't sad, maybe it would be funny, and it's probably funny to some people, to those who haven't felt this kind of injustice on their skin. However, to us, I feel free to tell us, the disreputed people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, believe me, it's not a laugh. And as Mr. Mehmedović said at the beginning of today's gathering, how long will one man's agony last, I would ask you all this way – how long will the agony of a country like this last? I therefore believe that it is not at all an independent work of this Committee, that the report has not been properly made, even in the depth of the soul, if you will, I wonder what is the purpose of this Office at all, if it does not correspond, or the institution, if it does not respond to the complaints of the representatives, how it will then respond to complaints from people who do not have these references that I have previously mentioned. Again, if they bring any recommendations, if we consider them to be even of quality, in court they are not binding. So, the only thing I can say is that it speaks to their spending of taxpayers' money. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6812	Thank you. The word is Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6813	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So this is a typical report. For years, I've been here in this House of Representatives in some way familiar with the methodology and the way this is done, with certain, as I would say, messages that are being sent to us through this report. I remember that in the last few years of each year we have had recommendations here from this House of Representatives, and I have also been a proponent of these recommendations for several years, what should be done to make these reports better every year, to be more positive, to improve the human rights situation, to make the issue of discrimination less discriminatory in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I'd ask the people of the Ombudsman institution to inform us, so to answer a few questions. How many earlier recommendations, which we had here, are so how many have been applied and how implemented and what is the result and effect in the direction of their application in the current position where you are now? And as far as you as the Ombudsman Institution have been involved in the development of these system solutions that should improve this area so, I will, here and today, direct one, is a similar conclusion to what I had perhaps a year or two ago, in which I will call on the Council of Ministers to work with you, with the BiH Ombudsman institution, and based on earlier recommendations and experiences, your experience, given that we address you non-stop, you have some kind of excuse, or some kind of answer, why you can't treat a thing better. I therefore believe that you should be more actively involved in the process of drawing up a set of measures that should be applied to make this area better in the next period. I think that's why and there's an Ombudsman institution, and in that sense, here's what I'm asking my colleagues today at this House of Representatives to accept and adopt one such conclusion. 56 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6814	Thank you. The word is Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6815	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like a few sentences about this report, from which at the very beginning I might single out one of the segments of the report itself, of course not having the ambition to have the whole report, which was done according to a particular methodology, but I would point out something that I think we should all pay special attention to. And that, in one part of the paragraph on page 35, stands – it is a particularly worrying fact that some institutions exhibit an illogical attitude towards the Ombudsman Institution. Therefore, some institutions have shown a illogical attitude towards the Ombudsman Institution. I'm going to stay with this sentence for the simple reason that the issue of an illogical relationship exists in multiple places and on several occasions when it comes to certain positions, here is a particular thing to take, for example. Let me take, for example. The president of the Republika Srpska government, among other things, calls them fools when he buys MPs, which is a very ignoring attitude towards those who have legitimacy chosen by the people, which I think is a parallel with this, so a finding that is quite clear, so that a certain type of institution has an illogical relationship. The largest number of recommendations said in non-cooperation with the ombudsman institutions was adopted in cases where the public administration party is responsible. If the public administration is responsible for this situation, then the question is, what kind of state do we have in the public administration, if this is an ombudsman's founding, human rights protector. Which means we have a public administration that discriminates. Next, the number of cases processed by the Ombudsman institution itself is nowhere near the real situation when it comes to the number of violations in the area of discrimination. A far greater number are discriminated against in Bosnia and Herzegovina than the number of cases done by the Ombudsman because persons do not address the Ombudsman institution because the report itself shows that they do not trust in courts, because courts do not make certain solutions that the parties expect. It is simply less and less trust in the institutions that all of us need to worry about this qualification given by the Ombudsman. Among other things, the public administration's reform according to the Ombudsman's assessment has so far not yielded the desired results. I believe that's the way it is. Then, it is said, among the scars, that further, it makes it difficult to create professional, responsible, transparent, effective, state-based services... and competences. So all of this together points to the real need to pay attention among other things to this phenomenon that is present in society. If there was an illogical relationship, it could also be seen recently when a conference was held on the topic "The Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, both to better and more effective protection mechanisms in BiH", which took place on 4 June 2015 at the Bristol Hotel here in Sarajevo. Among other things, we from the Commission on Human Rights have directed representatives, MPs, fellow Members to go to this Conference with the intention of making a contribution above all to participate in the work of the Conference, of course we appreciate, among other things, that this topic is important and that, among other things, it should be something that organisers should also respect the fact that representatives from Parliament, from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and as such have the opportunity to present their views, views on the pre-debate. Namely, 57 The Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly has received an invitation to this conference to better and more effective protection mechanisms in BiH, organised in partnership with the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, and in the framework of the project equality for all. Note, the partnership with the Ombudsman Institution, which is here today, is here with the report. Among other things, when it comes to who the organiser is, this coalition of civil society, therefore against discrimination is the organiser of this event, which is implemented by the Media Centre Sarajevo in co-operation with three organisations – the Standard for Social Research of Analyticals, the Law for All and Your Rights of BiH, and with the support of the American people through the US Agency for International Development, so USAID Although the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination has been in force since 2009, numerous analyses have pointed to continuing shortcomings in the application of the comprehensive framework, so in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it concerns the anti-discrimination framework. Therefore, the main intention of this, therefore, was the cross-sectoral conference, which was highlighted in the invitation letter, yes, referring to the previous experience in the fight against discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, fosters dialogue and co-operation between key state institutions. I repeat, dialogue and co-operation between key state institutions, the Human Rights Ombudsman's institutions in BiH, representatives of the judiciary and NGOs on key problems and key developments in the fight against discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the possibilities and ways of improving the Law on the prohibition of discrimination and its implementation. I read all of this with the intention of saying what's the point. It is absurd, it is amazing, I simply cannot believe that representatives, therefore, of our honourable MPs are not even allowed to address this conference because of the alleged need to give a press statement. In my opinion, not only should they have been introductors but they should have explained how and how the Law came about to see what these problems were in implementing the Law itself. But the organiser himself did not allow MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly to address the Conference. This in itself speaks of an illogical attitude towards the Parliamentary Assembly, because only we MPs elected at any level, either by the council or by the MPs, have the legitimacy of the people who chose us, all others are appointed. And if we build such a relationship, we will have serious problems when it comes to the ignoring relationship of those who organise such and similar conferences, and this is how they treat elected MPs, this time they were MPs, or MPs, it is, however, so the people's elected representatives. As for our meeting of the Commission on Human Rights, I will propose a conclusion, I do not know whether it will be accepted, which should be referred to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples that the participation of parliamentarians, or members of committees in conferences and workshops whose aim is primarily to create and amend the law, and the dialogue on co-operation between the institutions in the implementation of the law, since we are from a legislative body, is valorizing in an adequate way, that members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are not only observers, but should, in my view, be the introductions, that those who will give political consideration, direct a certain kind of debate and give it ultimately to those who organise such and similar conferences, which unfortunately ignore the Parliamentary assembly by ignoring the elected MPs. So, all of this is saying, among other things, that this attitude towards elected members of Parliament is really not something that can be better. I will repeat once again what I said at the very beginning, the fact is, therefore, that a large number of those who behave with impudence in politics, and the most impressive example is the example of the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, who here is the MPs in the National Assembly called the hooves. We have this part, of course, I would also agree with part of the discussion of fellow Arnaut, which concerns the Council of Ministers, and I agree with the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly that it is indeed necessary to provide, among other things, the presence of 58 representatives of the Council of Ministers at the time of the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And it's part of the relationship with elected MPs, no matter how many questions I disagree with you, but what I agree with, I'll tell you, so I agree. That's my personal opinion. So, here's the question we can agree on, and I am sure that with your authority and the kolegija, you will ensure that here at the House of Representatives there are representatives of the Council of Ministers, that all of our stories are not only recorded in the stenograms but simply hear what it is all about the legislative framework, which should really be done in order to respect each other. I am willing to respect every single person in every place where he is and whatever color the skin or any kind of education or whatever, but at the same time I believe that we are responsible for this situation, above all we as elected representatives here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly more than anyone else. And if we start to create an atmosphere, first of all respect for each other, we'll have a better environment all over the country. I can only imagine the behaviour of counter officials who privatise a desk or a workplace compared to most of the parties that need to provide all the rights prescribed by law. And if we take an example of a colleague, who you had just heard, so it should first of all just be a cause for one debate that will lead to this kind of illogical relationship simply doing what is in our power, and I think the Parliamentary Assembly can do far more than we've done so far. Here was one of my brief references to this report. Given everything I've said, I think that's enough for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6816	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6817	I thank the chairman. Yesterday, at the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I was the only member of the Commission who voted against the adoption of the Ombudsman's report, the independent Ombudsman's institution for human rights, and I didn't really have a chance or I was misunderstood why I voted against it, so now I'm going to try and explain it. In the Human Rights Ombudsman report itself, we see that from year to year, there is a reduction in the number of applications, i.e. the representations of people named mobbing, that some of the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have made a mobing over them. The question arises why the Ombudsman's Human Rights Report lacks measures, there are no proposals to change the legislation, because in the Law on Discrimination of BiH, we have only one sentence to move. So it is absolutely not further classified, which are types of mobbing, of which the sides can be committed, on which basis, etc. Therefore, it is very indicative why nothing has been done since the adoption of the Law, which was passed 5 years ago by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, to this day absolutely on this issue, and we have annual reports of the Ombudsman for Human Rights. On the other hand, we have a table view of both this 170 and some pages, unfortunately the pages are not numbered to tell me which page it is on, we have organs that have not acted on the recommendation of the 59 independent Ombudsman institutions for human rights although it is a legal obligation that they should deliver the answer. And if we use the summary directory of the ministry now, I ask, when I read this, here I ask the Ombudsman what the data of the ministry means to me now, me, and which ministries. And if we're a legislative body that we should react to and take action against, who and what. I, from this Report, absolutely do not see what institutions are that do not, within the prescribed deadline, provide answers to the Ombudsman for human rights, nor has there been a measure, nor a recommendation that we could work together on this where I am absolutely bound by the... Chairman of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, how to achieve the best cooperation when we are absolutely not offered by the Ombudsman anything that we should run together and work on that they, as an institution of certain bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are respected and that their recommendations are something to be appreciated and respected. So I don't see that they're on their own in that regard working. The report says that out of a total of 86 recommendations to which no answers have been provided, 70 recommendations have expired, and there is a point. Me and, I'm asking the question again, yeah, what next? There's absolutely no, there's an end, and we have to say it's a great report, we've found again that nothing works in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 9 million is out for the budget, is it for the administration that works, that's the order to show us what the actual situation is, and we're still not going to do anything. Why is it avoided in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the bodies of institutions, legislative bodies to name things by their real name and to call the institution that violates human rights and which allows all forms of discrimination to continue no matter what the basis. Of course, everyone avoids it, and then I ask the question, does it hit intelligence called an independent institution? How can they be independent when they don't name things by their real name or by the name of an institution that violates human rights? You are highly dependent, depending on the political parties that have power over you and you, of course, in this year of re-election have practically avoided all the real and valid data that we need here, the legislative body, to serve to ensure that we work to protect and improve the protection of human rights. And it's also sad that there are no items of territorial discrimination in this report. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the Federation of BiH entity, have had families for years, we have a white plague for 50-60 years of Bosnians and Herzegovians absolutely won't be, so I don't know why we're fighting, nor why we're sitting here today. Pregnant women seek, knock on the door, no maternity leave, and now the question is, what is it with children of those families who have absolutely no rights? Of course, the report did not find it appropriate to write territorial discrimination on any basis. In addition to maternity care, they are persons with disabilities, etc., children without parental ageing, children with special needs, etc. Of course, they as an Ombudsman institution, an independent institution, a pardon, an independent Ombudsman institution for human rights have a legal obligation to undertake self-initiative activities of investigating discrimination and the emergence of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This report serves that, based on the performances that the Ombudsman's independent human rights institution has received, it has carried out an analysis on the basis of these performances. Why wasn't she self-incentived to show us from territorial discrimination to pensioners? Well, it's not like pensioners are more in supermarkets than in public kitchens, red crosses, merhamets, etc. We see from this report that the perfect situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is reduced by the fact and reality in which we live. Diana Zelenika's case yesterday at the Joint Commission on Human Rights was wanted by some colleagues to be presented as if we were dealing with Diana Zelenika because she's an advocate and we're giving her some right more than some other notions, not to say ordinary people, we're all ordinary in our own way, which is what they're giving us these performances. Unfortunately, 60 of us can observe the case of Diana Zelenika so that the woman, a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with all the references we have so far had a moment to hear, only her rights, human rights come true upon arrival at the Parliamentary House of BiH. So, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, her performance was in a drawer in the District Office of the Independent Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in Mostar. On July 17th, the play ended somewhere in the drawer, here in the recommendation, i.e. in the Opinion of the Ombudsman, even the date misstated that only October 15th came the performance. We all from the Joint Committee on Human Rights have exactly all the data when it's being sent, how long she's been waiting for her answer and how long her human rights have been violated. When you read and when the public learns about this that Ms. Diana Zelenika is now exercising her right, it is a message, don't try anything at all because no rights you will not exercise in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sit, listen, be obedient and live your life the way you are dictated, right, by some who have a majority in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for 20 years have been tortured by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The recommendations they issued, not as an independent Ombudsman institution for human rights, are no less or less sad, and if they weren't sad, it would be ridiculous. So I don't know absolutely this one, and I'm still staying on that I won't support this report because in the report itself, cooperation is listed with all the institutions that need to deal with human rights. The Joint Committee on Human Rights, thanks to Mr. Bojić, who holds the chairmanship of the commission, has indeed shown one openness and willingness to co-operate. In the Report itself, therefore, it was practice, there was no cooperation with this independent Commission on Human Rights because it was avoided in continuity even though we have the role of overseeing all these institutions. Therefore, more is given to the executive authority which also avoids us to all these agencies and offices than to the Human Rights Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm also going to get attached, because I was a participant in that conference, where absolutely we're not looking for some exclusivity that should be written on our desks where we're going to sit, name and name, counsel, we're looking for respect because we respect them too. And for one normal cooperation, for a constructive dialogue, we must respect each other and respect each other. We were at that conference, not that they didn't respect us, but that we were humiliated and called, because they said, here they are sitting with you from the legislative authority, what they're doing, doing nothing. And we haven't had an absolute chance to talk to each other and say something in our own name. Not to tell you that already in certain circles, people who want to change this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are characterized as up-to-date, young, although they are young by age because you are only a new representative or representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as some already established representatives and MPs who have long-standing experience and have recognised experience not because they are beautiful, young, handsome but because they have what to say and what they advocate for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that you are digging for yourself. So that's the story of MPs and MPs, if you're touching a condition that's already been working for 20 years and if you're looking for something that they should do extra to make it better. I'll cut it short so I don't overstep time, see if you're already a little nervous. As for this very report and the preamble to the Constitution of BiH, it says in the Constitution, we BiH Constitution must respect, in preamble itself, that three groups of constituent peoples of course have an advantage over the other groups of this country. Yesterday at the Joint Commission on Human Rights, therefore, although I belong to one of the constituent people, by my colleagues in the Joint Committee who is chairing the Joint Commission, my voice is not worth collecting because I am not a valid representative of the Croatian people. What we talk about when it happens in this building, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We, therefore, have absolutely no one to turn to, but here are the public thanks to colleagues and colleagues who have proved to me that there is hope and that we are not 61 different by blood cells, but really only that we are people, that we are good people, that we are fighting for civil rights, and not by the color of blood cells and the validity of representatives of Croatian peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6818	Thank you very much Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6819	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the last session, when I was a delegate at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, every report by the Ombudsman Institution was the most eloquent and most strongly defended and I remember well the chairman, the then-presidents who said when Dr. Kapetanović so tenderly defends the Ombudsman institution, then we will both raise our hands. This year the difference is drastic, diametric. And I wasn't up for that report, either, which is the difference between me being held back, which is why I regret, I think I should have been against it. markirati as Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica, first of all starting with the Gender Equality Agency and the Honorable Director, as a potentially dangerous person, I already established and colleague Maja and young colleague, and here is a colleague Bojić who seems to be a danger. We are dangerous for two reasons, the result is the entry into the cave, and we will enter the cave because we are drawing public attention to the problems of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We talked about when there was a report from the Gender Equality Agency, this report looks like their report that I feel like they've been written in synergy. Well, let's say we do, and it's all true what my esteemed colleagues said, it was very painful yesterday to be in that session where a colleague is not an authentic representative of the Croatian people, in which we are quite offended on that commission, but here we are going in some order. In the section dealing with the electoral right, I thank them for saying that it is not recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a significant increase in women's participation in parliaments, and that a thorough analysis of electoral legislation and nothing is necessary. And it stays with three big points. As far as access to healthcare is concerned, I have been talking about this since 2000 when I became actively involved in politics, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Federation itself, we have 10 different rights in accession to the right to health care. The basic postulate of the Health Protection Fundamentals Act says – all patients are equal in the exercise of the right to health care regardless of the place, territory or any other sign. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, we have not 10 but 13 different approaches. I think that a patient from Brcko, Sarajevo, Zenica, Eggs, Bihać and Banja Luka should have equal access and that is a violation of human rights and I don't know how my colleagues in the Council of Europe, those who are permanent members, will explain why in Bosnia and Herzegovina the right of a patient to equal access to health care. It's a matter of years without the will of the authorities to speak publicly about it, even if we talk about amendments to the Constitution. Niko one in their right mind would want to deny a citizen of any entity equal access to both the pension and social systems, including health care. What I'm very worried about in this report is the part that treats the rights of the child. As a member of the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, and the current Vice-President of the Executive Committee of the European Parliamentary Forum for Population and Development, I consider it a concern report in the segment of child rights protection. And I don't know what time I'm firmly convinced that regardless of the strong resistance of the Ombudsman institution to the institution of public defender or public defender for children, and they say they don't need it, and I still think they should, taking care of the fact that there's an increased violation of the rights of 62 children. And in this report, for example, let's start with that population of children that I think are not protected, the report says that, please imagine, according to the estimates of some NGOs, it is estimated that from 3 to 4 thousand children in our country are without parental ageing, according to estimates of NGOs, or without adequate parental ageing. Of which 1/3 is in institutions. Is it possible that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should collect such information from NGOs? Can't we institutionally have insight into the number of unsettled children? A long-started story about the Family Law and used to me never telling myself again, but we, from the U.S.A., tried to change the Family Law to facilitate the adoption process, you had partners in us from the Ombudsman Institution, but you never got that story to the end, you weren't loud enough, and you had great conversation all these years from 2000 until the last time Mrs. Pandurević chaired, sorry to mention you, but our first deputy commission was at the maximum disposition of the Ombudsman Institution. You say you did not have adequate co-operation with the institutions, and therefore there is certainly a need to exclude the fact that you have rather bypassed the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, with the same things that colleagues have talked about without being able to point out the things we know, to pass on the experiences from Europe and the laws that are binding on Bosnia and Herzegovina, which do not matter. And again, I ask, what, are you worried about the fact that after 18 years of age, children from the carefree children's homes are going to the streets? I'm very worried about that. And I am particularly concerned about the shameful treatment of children who have been adopted or children from homes who are called even by high officials. And that's something that's terrible. You here in your report say you received 143 complaints... for following the rights of the child, and that you issued on that basis only 11 recommendations. It is a worrying claim that you say that the Ombudsmans are rarely addressed by children, which certainly points to the fact that much more effort needs to be taken to promote the rights of the child, etc., etc. How will my eight-year-old child please address you? And a few days ago, his basic human rights were violated. How? How did you raise your consciousness? You could have done it together with the Commission, and here's Mr. Bojić for you... all these years, all of my colleagues, believe me. There's no person here who's not socially sensitive. So this claim must not stand. What did you do about protecting your child's rights in terms of protection against... crime and child pornography? Here, the Ministry of Security has entertained on how to meet the request of the Council of Europe which requires us to do so now at this stage of gaining candidate status when we need to bring our legislation in line. And I'm not sure it was done right. Sexual violence against children in Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the rise. The state has not harmonised its criminal legislation regardless of the intensities of the few MPs that we have been trying to do, and regardless of the fact that... The convention ordered that children be protected from sexual exploitation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the countries of the world and sexual abuse that is so common in Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is within the limits of unbelief where everything is happening. Why haven't the material criminal rules changed? Why don't you, if you have the possibility of recommending sanctions, why don't you often use this mechanism? I know you don't have the ability to give a legal remedy in the sense in which courts have it, but why don't you often make recommendations, why don't you go to the media? Why, in the end, in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not publicly referred to as paedophiles by people who sexually exploit children and don't put marks on their home doors, a paedophile lives here, and don't put their names on all websites, because that's what the world does. So, it should not be said that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, cases of physical violence against children who result in death are becoming more and more frequent and I really think that, personally esteeming the individualities of some of you that I know of, at least in the Child Rights Monitoring Department, but we expect you to be 63 more in cooperation with this Commission. We'll change the laws, so we can change the laws in parliaments, but be louder, be more visible. It doesn't mean anything to us how many conferences you've been, how many working meetings you've had, we're interested in what you've done to protect people's rights of discrimination. Here, let's talk about the rights of the person with the disability. Why not equalise the rights of persons with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina all these years, regardless of the occurrence of disability, and of course taking care of the fighting populations that are due to receive special compensation for participation in the armed conflicts and disability that have arisen from this. But disciplined children with mental incapacitation, discrimination against civil war victims, discrimination against disabled workers. What do we do with them? And they keep reminding us from the UN and the Council of Europe, here I am more and more often in Brussels, when they let me go to the session of course. But I don't have the answer to say who did it. You're saying we don't have an answer from the institutions. Here's the institution, there's your friends and your conversators, and with most of us you're private friends. The complaints say that he complains about the work of the resolution ministries, I will not talk about it, but just yet, and what I end up with, what concerns me most in your report is strengthening the capacity to protect discrimination. I'm asking you what you did about defining torture, including domestic legislation, how do you even treat torture when it's not part of the Criminal Code? And what you're saying, which is simply ridiculous, is that the fundamental challenge in the work of your institution is the indeterminateness of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination because it is not explained to you by Article 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6820	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6821	Right now, this is the line I'm finishing up with. Since you're a central institution for protection against discrimination, it's unclear to you, and I don't know who needs to explain to you, someone probably from the courts, to what extent are the other authorities of the institution obliged to respect found the Ombudsman? Please don't waste any time looking for an immediate answer to these questions. So, please, if your task is to prevent the protection of human rights, write to parliamentarians, write to the courts, and do something to truly protect human rights, to respect your recommendations. And I'm not voting for this report today. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6822	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6823	I thank the president. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, what you've been loading on people, so, on women, I don't know who's doing it there. So if it wasn't for this report, ladies and gentlemen, you wouldn't even know what you're talking about right now. Where are the gentlemen who need to listen to us, where are the gentlemen who need to propose laws, where are the men from the Ministry of Human Rights and the refugees to solve these issues. Why does the Federal Ministry take over the health care, the responsibilities... and bring the minister himself, perhaps even when you were a Parliamentarian, not only speak to you, but to all those who spoke, so it regulates health services beyond agreements with the county. So we're committing violations and we're telling an institution that doesn't have a mechanism to do it at all. So she's telling us what's going on in the room. 64 Why didn’t we start some proceedings ourselves to pass that law, one or the one we need. Why didn't we sue for some of the things that were happening to us? Here, the prosecutor is here, the courts are here, so institutions that have mechanisms. I mean, no, I didn't mean to discuss this at all, but you're, therefore, as many people, or the Agency, which is our conscience, I'm so experiencing, warning us of some things, following some things as much as possible, as it can, as it's capacitated, suggesting measures. And let's bring it in, ladies or gentlemen, you can, you can propose those laws that you've just mentioned here, you have initiatives all over the place, and now you're asking the Ombudsmans to bring it to you. So, they can, of course, and I'm calling them, so, and we're friends, you've told them all well, but don't, so you turned this report like they're the executive institution that can solve all this and we can't bring us here even the ministerial assistants. There's so much about our power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6824	This was constructive self-critics. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the relic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6825	I agree that we should also be representatives of the ministries here, especially the Ministry of Human Rights, but the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is at this same session, where we were silent observers, by international communities rated as one of the best laws ever in Europe. So he's perfectly well-conceived, he has perfect legal regulations, but he's not respected. So that's what my colleague Lovrinovic's point is. You don't respect yourself. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's not respected by the competent institutions, and in this report, we don't see what the institutions really are to act as a legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6827	Thank you. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6828	Mr lovrinov, you have not clearly read the Report, so when you criticise others please see Article 16 in which it is not clear to the Ombudsmans themselves whether they should interfere in the capacity of the court's involvement in court proceedings, which implies a different degree of involvement in the process and that they, therefore, do not know how to engage in the judicial process, plan to deepen co-operation with NGOs. I'm looking at one of the famous, famous judges.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6829	65 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6830	Please read the report and then criticize us. Please read the report. Today, people who have been fighting for years for all these laws have spoken here and have not been implemented to this day. But someone needs to help them, and they need to be explained. Our intention is good – protection of human rights. Bosnia and Herzegovina is highly ranked on the country's scale... is being discriminated against and cruelly violates human rights. And don't, and please we're just talking on behalf of the citizens, not on behalf of the political elites, but on behalf of the citizens who are very, very discriminated against.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6831	Thank you very much. Please, as long as the discussion continues, do not enter into the word of one another and do not speak to one another, speak to those who lead this Parliament, and to all of us. Mr. Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6832	This is also an opportunity for the Ombudsman to record a number of questions to which I expect an answer. First, the Anti-trafficking Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013-2015 adopted 26.03.'13. A year by the Council of Ministers. Is it also published in the “Official Messenger ” and when it came into force? So the specific question of apropo of this, therefore, about what of the documents was to be adopted. I wonder if even when it came into effect, I told you the date? Next, the decision to form a council for children. This was about the Children's Council. Let me remind you, the Council of Ministers adopted the decision on 04.12 and published in "The Official Messenger", number 4/13. The decision states that it will take effect on the day of its adoption. I can comment on what's on the day of adoption, but there's no need since it's short, but it looks like there'll be plenty of time. And the following, Strategy for the fight against violence against children 2012-2015 adopted 28.11.12. the year, published in Official Messenger, number 38/13, of 20/05/2013, entered into force on the day of its publication. So did these regulations, which I said, come into force and do they even produce legal facts? Here's a concrete question, so I ask you a concrete answer, not to go into this part of the debate that concerns proving whether this is one way or the other. So here are at least a few specific questions that I expect from you very specific answers, especially apropo when it comes to the Strategy, namely the formation of the Children's Council, starting with the fact, here from Republika Srpska, you have in the Republika Srpska Ombudsman for children where the number of cases is over 800, which means that there are a large number of children who are discriminated against. And the question arises how is it that the Ombudsman has so many cases and that when it comes to the Ombudsman, when it comes to the Ombudsman for human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are not there. So, there is still something wrong with this, but ultimately, the Ombudsman should be as close as possible to the citizens, because there is an objective problem when it comes to child discrimination, and these strategies have been adopted by the competent authorities when it comes to the Council of Ministers. So I counted them individually, so you know that there are documents that have been adopted, the only question is what's going on with them. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6833	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6834	I thank the chairman. First of all, I am extremely pleased that many of my colleagues in previous discussions have pointed out the need for the Council of Ministers to attend, so I am very glad that they do not at least consider it as harassment of them or Parliament overall. As far as the report itself is concerned, I spoke about this at yesterday's session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights on several aspects, and I'm going to touch those and some others in today's discussion. First of all, here, if I can, although we are exactly the same in this regard, somewhat correcting my distinguished colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, who said that Dijana Zelenika did not, too, our dear colleague, have failed to achieve a minimum of her basic human rights to enter Parliament, we entered Parliament on December 09th. In fact, it has not been able to achieve a minimum, and that is to result in some reaction to the Ombudsman until the Joint Committee on Human Rights put it on the agenda of its session on May 21st, so 6 months later. And express 25.05., four days after this agenda has been placed on Parliament's website, the Ombudsman institution finally responds after one year to the authorities that the distinguished colleague Zelenika holds responsible for the discrimination she suffers. I am absolutely of the view that members of Parliament, or anyone in the state, should enjoy special privileges when it comes to public authorities' reaction. So we should all be the same. However, this is exactly this reaction, I say I leave the possibility that it is a mere coincidence, but then it is a really great coincidence that you haven't responded by something for a year, the Joint Committee for Human Rights takes the performance of a distinguished colleague, put it on the agenda, put the agenda on the website, and 4 days later you finally do what you could have done a year ago. That's exactly what it shows that we have a system where it only responds when someone in some way has some kind of social privilege, and it can't be that way. So, this shouldn't have come to the agenda of the Joint Committee on Human Rights at all, you absolutely shouldn't have mattered who Dijana Zelenika is, you shouldn't have been interested. So you should have acted on this before she was even put on the list, because her performance to you left before the lists for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly were signed, if I'm right. Eh, so that's where we have the problem, so you're the one who favors it, not even because it's a member of Parliament, but because you've seen some institution start doing it. So don't put us in that position to react until something is posted on Parliament's website. I say I leave the possibility that it's a mere coincidence but the fact is that the 21st is set and that the 25th you finally reacted after almost a year. That's one thing. The other thing, people with disabilities, I was talking about it on the Joint Commission yesterday. And let's start again from this house here, dear fellow Bojić just said something that is absolutely standing and that is that we need, first of all, to show by example, and then we can expect it to start to be applied at lower levels, here's when at least the power is at stake. This Parliament has no conditions for access to persons with disabilities, absolutely, meaning there are no conditions for people with a certain degree of disability to come here, to attend sessions, to attend commissions, to attend other public events, which is their right as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there are absolutely no basic conditions. Here, step outside the Parliament building, I come here every day and every time I have to climb the stairs, so this building doesn't have these conditions. And if I don't talk about entity parliaments right now, I can't talk about everything, probably 67 buildings do. However, there is absolutely a catastrophic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that stands. And what I also mentioned yesterday, this is a very important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina because we are a country that has been through a terrible war and can reasonably be concluded that the percentage of people with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina is still above the European average because of what happened to us before, that is, that war ended less than 20 years ago. The second reason I point out this question is because we had a thematic session on another endangered category, and that's where the representatives of the Ombudsman told us it's wrong to organise a session on only one category, it's about LGBT persons, when there are other categories like persons with disabilities whose rights are also being violated. So that's your... And then you deliver us a report saying that you only have 66, and that's exactly how people with, LGBT people have much less registration than people with disabilities, and then you deliver the report and it turns out that it's not true, that the number of people with disabilities is only 66. And it's absolutely not the fault of a person with disabilities, there's the guilt of the Ombudsman institution. Something a colleague also spoke about at yesterday's session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, that the Ombudsman's institution is simply not public. It's something you absolutely have to work on. Because if you have 66 applications from people with disabilities and we know, and you know better than I do, how acute the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, it absolutely indicates that you must work to increase the visibility of the Ombudsman institution, to bring the Ombudsman institution closer to endangered categories and to encourage them to submit applications. Here, I publicly encourage them now, persons with disabilities, to file applications for the inability to join the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This is a shame that we sit here, that we have all the institutional mechanisms, all of us, including me, in our hands to change it and nothing happens. And none of these 66 applications are against the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And that's a shame. And that's why you need to approach these people, and all the other endangered categories, encourage them to file as many applications as possible. The second thing, I see in the report that you have 56 employees and the percentage of resolved applications is not enough, and the other thing we have big delays. There's no requirement to increase the budget, you're about to complain about the current situation, but there's no demands. I was talking about the current reserve, about the funds given to three members of the presidency, 326.000 marks, so it was better to give those 326.000 marks to the Ombudsman institution, wasn't it better? I am sure that for 326,000 marks this building can be made available to disabled persons, but the Valdating Coalition unfortunately voted to give discretionary management to three members of the presidency to spend as they will and without minor responsibility. I will now finally refer to something that my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, also mentioned in her discussion. We had really one incident situation on the Joint Commission on Human Rights yesterday, and I was really caught up that something like this could happen on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and I don't need to repeat Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil already told you what happened. I have pointed out that it is an insult to MPs, or a violation of Article 79. Rules of Procedure. I am extremely encouraged by the fact that on this committee we have the chairman, Mr. Bojić, who took this very seriously, so my business intervention has taken it extremely seriously, and it is not that business intervention characterised as, quote, harassment. And the chairman, honourable Mr Bojić, reacted with great authority to the person, or delegate who offended the distinguished colleague, and resulted in the apology of the delegate to his colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. And yet now I underline I am really encouraged that you are leading this Commission and that what you have shown on the Commission and what you have specifically said today is that we should lead by example to a better society, because that is the end and the best way. 68 And here, I now call, indeed, the Ombudsman's Institution – respond to us, make us, ask the Parliamentary Assembly, I will anyway, if you don't do it, I'll give you a month, it's no deadline, but here I'll give you a courteous month, then I'll start an initiative to make this building available to people with disabilities. Because if we don't get out of here, then what do we have to talk about? No, almost no public institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina is available to people with disabilities, and we need to teach lessons from here. And until we do it ourselves, we can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6835	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6836	Thank you, Chairman. Since I'm reporting for the first time today, I warmly welcome you all. So far, the address has mostly exhausted what I wanted to say myself. Together, my colleague Maja Gasal and I have analyzed this report, and I am also not prepared to support this, but I will only briefly draw attention to the fact that the practical problem arises already when we can spot the mistrust of those who would like to address the Ombudsman because they have experienced little use of it since the recommendations actually remain dead letter on paper, even if they are not left in the drawer, if what was expected of the Ombudsman was done, and even if they are responding, because there are cases that institutions are deaf, and in that case when we get to the fact that all this is satisfied then I do not see the mechanisms to help those who are complaining. I say, I have a few cases in the environment of people who have been suggested, so here you go to the Ombudsmans, and they said yes, but I know a case before, so he's got nothing to talk about, and there wasn't any of it, so he doesn't drink water in the extreme. I think that's the problem, that maybe we should all try to make a difference. And what I kind of reminds me of is that of our Board of Appeals, as a detour, if you deliver them then they're directed to someone, and the question is what happens in the end, what's the use of whoever complains, who has a problem. Especially in the case of mobbing, we've seen a lot of gaps, a lot of problems, people are exposed to it. I was particularly intrigued by this as an illustration given by the distinguished representative of the Zelenika. I've got a little bit of a blur on how it was possible, I don't know if you did, if a colleague has solved this problem to this day, that she's been discriminated against. Professionally, so I'm from the university too, and I'm interested in how it's possible 5 years not to meet or carry out discrimination because it's not only the right of someone at the university to be chosen, at the moment he gets the conditions of choice, it's also his obligation. Progress in more calling, so I don't know what competition to hold then, but it's being organised, it's not reporting for a competition, it's the competition being called when someone at the university gets the conditions to be chosen for more titles. I didn't quite understand how it was possible. I say, at the end of a certain period, five years between two calls, or six, or in some accelerated progress three, in any case, the obligation is, not only the right to go into multiple calls, otherwise the engagement ends unless someone fulfils certain conditions. Maybe he doesn't have the conditions so he won't be chosen. Well, I just wanted so much, so I have a lot of objections to this report. Much, much better and much more people expect from the Ombudsman, it would be good to change something. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6837	Thank you. Mrs. Diana Zelenika, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6838	Well, I don't know if I could exactly call it a replica, but I wanted to tell my esteemed colleague that no matter what five years has passed, there's no movement. So there was an app... where I absolutely meet all the conditions. So, over the past years, I've conducted both exercises and lectures more than anyone at that university, until we've had enough personnel, rated by the highest grades of all the students in anonymous polls, so those who are the most competent essentially, who consume our services, but I obviously haven't been alike. And despite that, so the answers are nebulous, to the type of constructive conversation someone didn't, so he gives himself freedom for about a year to get someone in touch to fix both sides and so, you can't believe the humiliating statements I received from that University of Mostar Medical School. But here, in order not to bother more auditorium, I will deliver it all to you, if you have will and desire, because everything, absolutely everything is protocold. So, no matter what the period is, it's done quite wisely, because everything I'm saying is completely justified, and I have all these obviouss that are just unbulful. And here, I'll gladly deliver to you to see, so it's 5 years old. Maybe a little of my colleague Gasal when she said she didn't exercise her rights until she entered Parliament, and I haven't yet realized... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6839	Thank you. The speaker, Mr. Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6840	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just say a few sentences, offered in fact to this, in my opinion, a very constructive and qualitative debate over this report. So first of all, I call on our Ombudsmans to see this debate that way. This is, therefore, the cry of those who see that there is a problem and need to find a solution to how to get out of this problem. The Human Rights Ombudsman's institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, or Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, meets with the Washington Agreement, the Federation of BiH Constitution, afterwards with Dejtonom. The foreigners played a significant role in the functioning of this institution, and it is obvious that we need today to see the state of the institution, the state of the institution and what we do, because on the one hand there are too many deaf to appeal and demands and find the Ombudsman institutions. This speaks of a general state in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, and therefore, first of all, I think that Mr. Lovrinović is right, should be responsible for me, because there is no unimaginable reflection from the sphere of public responsibility after the Ombudsman points to human freedoms and rights violations. And with us, it's almost a regular phenomenon, and that's a question for us. So Bosnia and Herzegovina must find mechanisms to force those affected by these reports to act responsibly. Has anyone ever resigned? Has anyone ever been removed by officials? I think that's the situation either it wasn't or it's very rare. And that is one problem and one question that we will have to deal with in the next period, because we should certainly improve this institution, it is certainly useful and necessary for the overall system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 70 On the other hand, I went out for this pay phone to ask you, therefore ombudsmen, to do something I don't think you're doing enough, although I appreciate it, therefore, and I respect your work and your findings. And I, every time it comes to your report, point out this thing, which is that you're not public enough with your findings and your reports. Go public, go to the media, call out, be brave, fear no one, because in this way you are helping the overall system of protection of human rights in this country, the overall system of this country, and ultimately to yourself and your institution. And one question at the end, and as far as your accommodation is concerned, there have been some problems with your accommodation, I would ask that you say here, about this report, what is actually the problem and how things are now. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6841	I thank Chairman Džaferović. Is anyone else answering for word? If I've seen correctly, is this a replica, or? Yes, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6842	Dear Chairman, I must answer the replica because it is really not from your presentation clearly, and this support of my colleague Lovrinović, that we should act as a legislative body. How to react to something if we in the report don't have enough information to react to something. If we had improved our situation we must absolutely in the Report, not our condition but the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have adequate data to respond to, and not now, respecting the ombudsmen, I really think that they are working, only absolutely no co-operation with us as this legislative body in order to work together to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6843	...of course. Thank you very much. We're going, if no one answers the word anymore, do any of the Ombudsmans want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Sandić, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6844	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the institution. I will immediately move to answer some of the questions that I consider necessary to answer, and then finally I will say something suspiciously about the issues of protection of human rights, the roles of the Ombudsman institution and the roles of this House of Representatives, that is, the BiH Parliament for good and for creating space for our citizens to achieve as much as possible those rights. It is rare that the debates on the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman Institution are held to discuss one complaint and one case, but not a rule can be conducted. In particular, Ms. Diana Zelenika's appeal would only be given the following, we received that complaint, it was immediately brought to the appeal, the recommendation was issued, it asked that 71 of the activities conducted by the institutions and bodies of the Faculty and the University be reviewed and the results should be reviewed. There was also an idea, and we also answered that play a few days ago, which referred to the work of the Ombudsman Institution, before the Human Rights Commission, to assess and to give its opinion and its answers in this regard. I can only say that in this case and in this complaint we have done as well as all 4,100 and some more complaints, of which 50 percent were unfounded, and 46 percent were founded, so I don't see there... As for issues related to the earlier conclusions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to invite institutions and authorities to implement recommendations that have not been implemented, I must tell you that it has been and had an extraordinary effect. Let me give you an example. The Directorate for indirect taxation, some of them probably remember, 46 people turned to protect their rights from working relations, for 10 years they waited to exercise those rights, no respect for the recommendation, according to the conclusion of this Parliament, the recommendation was respected and others I can't remember right now, because I didn't expect a question like this, and this one I remembered. Mr Bojić noted very well that in the Annual Report on the Results of the Authority of the Public Administration, we pointed out very seriously when we used this term - ignoring relationship. It's a difficult expression, it's not so easy to say that one system in the public government system is one, so to speak, one chain of management ignoring relations, it's very serious. And what the Ombudsmans said courageously said, argued and expected that appropriate measures should be taken by the institutions and bodies governing and leading the management policy. You know, that's the point. One example works only, the slowness in the work - out of citizens' complaints, ineffectiveness in the work, inefficiency of inspection services, legalisation procedures - very slow, issuing permits to citizens, it's a familiar thing I'm talking about familiar things, issuing building permits, unkindness of officials to citizens. The word "officer" itself, so it serves a citizen, and that's how he should behave. Incorrect relationship, not making decisions within the legal time limit, seeking unnecessary documentation, delaying procedure, silence of administration, etc. So these are very serious things. 517 complaints, 6.8% more than last year, 71 recommendations, the highest number of recommendations are addressed to the management authorities. So I think it's a very good observation why there is no proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Ombudsman and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination? There are procedures to amend and supplement these laws. By October of this month, amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman should be offered to this Parliament, and I think that in the course of and procedure, I do not mean, but I do know, because people from the Institution are involved, in the preparation of amendments to the Law on Discrimination, because the five-year time period of application of this Law has already shown some of its shortcomings, and in particular it has shown certain shortcomings as to what was suspected of the correctness of this Law at the time of its adoption. Thus, in practice it was confirmed that when the law was passed, some of the things that were then found showed that they were not good. The Ombudsmans do not have the authority to pass the law just to initiate, but the procedure is under way. The authorities that won't deliver notices, according to these authorities, we deliver recommendations and we have a significant number of recommendations. There is not a single authority that has not delivered the notice we asked for within the time limit that it has not been given a recommendation after which we recommend and call for responsibility because it has not done so, and most of them do so, but after the recommendation has been delivered. 70 recommendations expired deadlines for realization. A number of these recommendations were adopted at the end of 2014 and a few days passed in 2015, but we took it, if the deadline is 30 days not 25 days, so it will not do so according to the recommendation. We do not have any other legal options except to present in the Annual Report that recommendations are not respected or that 72 are not accountable to them. And we would like to have some other mechanism that will force recommendations to come true, and I would love it very much. It often pisses us off this privately, but that's the way it is. The Ombudsman institution is a preventive mechanism that needs to deliver the results of the activities it has found in its human rights research and to offer this report to competent authorities and institutions that are guaranteed to exercise citizens' rights under the Constitution. Here is a change in the law, not only in BiH but also in other countries, and it is a very question of discussion, science is involved in whether recommendations should be sanctioned or not? Someone's in, somebody's against, we'll see how it goes. Territorial discrimination regarding maternity rights, we must say that in 2010, we sent a special report to Parliament, because it was about women working in BiH institutions that could not achieve this right, it was done on a recommendation and I think that Parliament initiated the procedure before the Constitutional Court of BiH and the Constitutional Court made a decision after the appeal where it had undertaken the regulation to regulate it. And I think it's... Many more questions remain unregulated when it comes to uniform rights by cantons and entities. We have a large number of complaints about people complaining about pensions, or pension funds. And lately he's been greatly increased, especially when it comes to applying the agreement, interstate agreements, they're so-called. proportionate pensions. We've initiated several times, it's very difficult, the shifts are very slow and very difficult. It's probably financial resources. That's the problem, you need to pay for the rights that involve certain funds. I cannot agree with this remark that the rights of the pensioner are not said anything. Here are the 53rd and 54th pages within the segments of economic and social rights specifically processed after the right to work on pensions where all the phenomena and problems we have encountered have really been brought forward. As far as this conference was going on in Jahorina, which is mentioned, we, where there was one inappropriate behaviour, I was not at that conference, and I don't know what it was about, if it was me on behalf of the Institution, can only direct an apology from this place to people who are MPs, or women, and there were two women as I recall, as far as I understand, an apology on my behalf if our associates who organized it did as you said, without checking whether it was true or not. And in the future, we'll certainly make sure that it doesn't happen again. As far as election law is concerned, in our report, the result of our research and our observation is that women are not represented in Parliament in greater numbers than they have ever been before. This is quite sufficient for the competent authorities and institutions involved in elections, electoral law, etc. Why is that, how is that? We cannot engage in these things, those things involve other persons, so other bodies and other institutions dealing with elections and electoral law. It is our primary obligation to take care of the exercise of the active and passive right of citizens. We fully accept this fact, which is highlighted, regarding ageing, for children without parental ageing. This is a fact that we know from the case, which we have come up with based on collaboration with NGOs with which we organize numerous gatherings and analyses of the rights of children. So we are, the goal was to get to know Parliament and that fact that needs to be opened and we need to see how to solve it. Only 11 recommendations, yes, that's 11 cases where no suggestion was accepted during research. We, when we initiate the procedure, determine whether there is a basis for investigating or violating human rights by the competent authority, actually from the authority designated as a breacher, we are asking for a statement. A large number of them are already taking steps to remove such violations under such notice 73. And we had, from the total number of human rights violations, 81% were removed without recommendations. So I can tell you that both institutions and organs are quite sensitive when it comes to children. And when we show up with a request to make a statement as to why the child asks, why this child is not provided, why the child who turned 18 is on the street, etc., immediately take measures that are objectively capable of these institutions and bodies. And this 11-recommendation is where no attempt has been made to solve this problem at all. Addressing children, we have been campaigning to meet children in schools, primary schools and secondary schools called "Ombudsmen at your school" for 3 years. We have visited many schools and numerous municipalities in the BiH area where we want to learn about children's rights, protection institutions and with the aim of communicating with the institution and of having children appear. We don't think a kid's gonna show up when he's three, but since he's 12 years old, they're kids who can show up and show up. But we find that the effort we put into it is not adequate and that they do not appear in the number we expected. Thank you for this suggestion about strengthening the capacity of the Department of Discrimination. The Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination has regulated that the Ombudsman Institution must be granted specific means to strengthen this department for the elimination of all forms of discrimination. The law was passed in 2009, and here it is today in 2015, and we haven't received a single mark in a year. We do things in different ways. For the application of the Law on Discrimination and Elimination, it is very important to promote the Law, promote forms of discrimination, promote the measures necessary... but not to teach people who are concerned about the protection of human rights. Some come and say we want to go with you. Let's talk about people who need to apply the law. So, who operate institutions, who operate bodies, etc. with them, these people should be educated, not educated by the Ombudsmans, educated by the members of the Commission, etc. We've been looking for 91,000 this year, and you've adopted the budget, and we haven't gotten a single mark. How will we implement the promotion and elimination of all forms of discrimination? I said last year at Parliament, I'm sorry to use that word, we came into a situation to beg and ask foreigners to organise a seminar and organise a show on TV, to promote the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Well, we're gonna have to do that now, but we're gonna do that until we get it. The questions asked by Mr Bojić, I am unable to answer now because it is precisely about specific issues and the dates that I cannot now. But when asked about the Children's Council, I can answer. We wrote it on purpose in the report, they only had two meetings last year. Why aren't you working? Why isn't it working? We don't have the funds. They report to this Parliament, please ask them to say what these problems are that they do not work. We know that they don't have the money, they don't have the funds, and we wrote it. But this is a signal, this is what Mr. Arnaut said. Here's the reaction, so the Children's Council founded this Parliament, here's a report on why they don't work, why they don't work. The benefits of addressing the Ombudsman, we don't feel that citizens are shrinking, we even have a feeling of increasing numbers. In 2009, when we came to these positions, 5,500 people turned to 2014 in 13,187, each year growing more and more rapidly. It would be good if something had changed, I couldn't agree more. It is necessary to amend the Law on the Ombudsman, to amend the Law on Discrimination, to amend all other laws that are not adequate for the exercise of citizens' rights and, of course, to take action in this respect 74. About the accommodations, the office in Banja Luka has been given new accommodations, not entirely adequate, we're on our way to sort it out, and I think we'll work it out. The Sarajevo office is on its way to sort it out, we heard it today, and that's how it is in Mostar. In Brcko's office is located in the area where Brcko District gave free of charge, i.e. Brcko District has a decision that allows all BiH institutions to use space without compensation. And in Livno, there's still an unresolved question. So these are the questions that I wanted to answer, not to justify, but to say what is real and what is objective and what are certain difficulties. I'm going to thank you very much for these discussions you've given here. It's my assessment, ours, in fact, we're together now... these discussions you've brought here are nothing but confirming the allegations of our reports and the addition of this report and thank you for that. So, you have also indicated that human rights are being violated in BiH, reports on the results, the results of the institution's work are in this sense the result is that human rights are being violated, the result has been addressed 13.187, is that 46% of the complaints are established, 54 have not been established, the result is that of the total number of violations of rights being provided protection in 89.90%, those 10% refer to that part of 11% of the recommendations that have not been met. I would suggest that this time as before, because I believe that this will be effective, this Parliament draws its conclusion to call on the authorities and institutions that have not implemented the ombudsman's recommendations to do so. So much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6845	Thank you. On purpose, of course, we allowed the Ombudsman, Mr Ljubomir Sandić, to say everything he has to say after this discussion. I think this has been a quality discussion and this is a well-worked agenda point and it's going to have its effects. I'm closing the debate now. We're going to the 10th agenda, that's Ad. Ten. Proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica – MPs: Denis Bećirović, Mirsad Mešić and Zaim Backović The motion for a resolution in the procedure was delivered on 19.05.2015, the motion for a resolution you received. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, by supporting the proposed Resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH, the SDP Club of BiH calls on colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs to contribute to building a democratic, open and fair society in BiH by accepting this resolution. We ask and call for us to join the numerous community of countries that have already done this in their parliaments when adopting similar resolutions. We believe and hope that in the coming days before the 11th of July in Srebrenica, the foundation of the initiative launched by the UK, and the Security Council will deliver a similar resolution. We in the SDP of BiH are convinced that this resolution creates conditions for the perpetrators and those who ordered genocide in Srebrenica, the name and last name to be responsible for their actions... to remove a mortgage from a people in BiH, whose name is the war criminals who committed unprecedented crimes, including the crime of genocide. We have received the support of a large number of associations of citizens and NGOs, primarily from Srebrenica and then from BiH. On this occasion, Mr. Chairman, we regret that some representatives of these NGOs and citizens' associations are not allowed to attend this session, this would also be a sort of goal of respecting these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6848	Thank you. The word has Mr Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected colleagues and colleagues are indeed the time to bring a resolution to this high house in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly after 20 years of genocide. I wish I had said it here today in the media address in front of this hall, that by counting here and me that there are almost no politicians in this country, at least those who have acted in power at this time, a month before Srebrenica a lot of talk about Srebrenica is, in principle, denying us or not accepting us, and those in Sarajevo have long forgotten us. I would like the motion of this Resolution to consult with clubs in this Parliamentary Assembly that this Resolution finally gets its support here in this House. The debate in which we will move further away from each other will not help victims or survivors, it will certainly leave consequences for those living today in Srebrenica and Podrinj who survived genocide. So I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to do this vote without debate... is to press this button who is in favour, who is against and so end this story, because I think it's correct and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6850	Thank you, Mr Ahmetović. The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6851	Thank you President, I welcome you, your deputies, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and all present. I will not enter into whether this resolution could have been brought into line before its proposal, whether the text could have been something different, possibly more acceptable to those who apriors refuse to do one civilization act and in the BiH Parliament following those who did so in the European 76 Parliament and many European Parliaments. So I will not talk about the text of the Resolution, but I will remind you of a few sentences that this Parliament has adopted before. This took place in the beginning of 2013 in both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. We adopted a resolution on respect and recognition of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan. In both homes this resolution was adopted unanimously. In this House, the motion for the resolution was the MPs of the parties who persistently refused to participate in the work, so from the SNSD. The resolution, among other things, makes it very clear that respect is given by the expression of support, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan as recognised internationally. So this Parliament is able to show its support and respect for the sovereignty of Azerbejdžan, but it is very difficult to respect itself. The resolution also calls for, when it comes to the same topic, the failure of all international recommendations for resolutions and declarations concerning what is called the conflict in Azerbaijan, particularly by apostrophe of Karabah Karabah. With this same resolution unanimously adopted, proposed by the SNSD MPs in this House, we all join, therefore, our fellow European Parliamentarians and delegates of the UN General Assembly in condemning the crimes against humanity and the threats of the peaceful co-existence of the people with deep compassion for the victims of the tragic conflict and their families, have passed unanimously. In the House of Peoples, the second promoter, but also unanimously, the adopted Resolution that goes forward and condemns the genocide that took place in the city of Hodjali, during the Armenian-azerbejdžanski karabahski Karabah conflict, and we as Parliament, or one of the two homes of this Parliament, also unanimously assess that it was a crime against humanity and threats to the peaceful common life of the people and we deeply sympathise with the victims of a tragic conflict, etc., etc. What do I mean? Saying again that I don't want to go into the details of commenting on the content of the document that has been proposed today and which I am going to support, I want to say that when it comes to Azerbejdžan, then we can suggest, some who are not here today, and unanimously support both homes this Resolution. I don't want to compare the genocide that happened in Hoxhala with genocide in Srebrenica, but the fact that there was no big debate when it came to the situation that took place in Armenia, which is also tragic, where people working on a scientific basis and these could draw some parallels, but it is a problem to take a step in BiH and move on to a much cleaner conscience than it is now in political terms. I would not scrutinise this debate by saying why the Azerbaijan resolution was adopted unanimously in both homes, and what is the reason that all MPs in both homes supported this and condemned this sort of thing in Azerbaijan, and are unable to agree several sentences for a normal and common future in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6852	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6853	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The resolution that we have before us and which my two colleagues, two colleagues and I have done is a general condemnation of crime throughout the entire BiH area, not something that is a matrix of ethnic, religious, ethno-national or whatever, as well as respect for all that BiH is as signatories of international contracts, agreements, etc. A duty to respect. BiH is a UN member, and the UN body has made a decision or ruled on what it is in Srebrenica. So what the UN 77 has formed, that authority has reached a verdict. The European Parliament, in which BiH lawmakers are sitting, passed a resolution on Srebrenica. We are going to negotiate the accession of the UN whose members have adopted the Resolution on Srebrenica. In addition to this Resolution, the explicits there are written – all crimes are condemned throughout BiH. So it's not about the effectiveness of one space, it's about the complete space of the state that's internationally recognised and we have to get the strength, all together, to say that in order to achieve the future, in order to create conditions for youth to live unburdenedly, to condemn all crimes, and it won't happen again. We will not allow the indoctination of young people to develop intolerance toward others, develop something that is a potential spark for this youth to experience in the future what we have experienced and experienced. We must create conditions for the spirit of Vili Branta, who kneeled to what his countrymen did and apologized to the victims. If we're going to close our eyes and say that there was somewhere not, then we're doing evil to our people. Yes, the crime took place in the entire BiH area. Yes, genocide took place at the verdict of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Srebrenica. Yes, people are in this space, destroyed for generations, people are displaced, not by their own free will. We've run out of population mass, and that's why we've got diaspora all over the world today, and I've even managed to find them in China, and the Internet is a miracle today, practically in all the countries of the world. Yeah, extremism is born just because we're not ready to tell what really happened here. Yes, we must be the ones who will end up with what is called the past that is not at all beautiful for any BiH citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6854	Thank you. Here, for the debate, a distinguished representative, jasmin Emrić, also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6855	Thank you. Respecting the text proposed by the Resolution, and esteeming its importance for confirming the full truth about the death of Bošnjak in Srebrenica, it is my obligation to present the official position of the party that I represent in this distinguished House. The Party of Democratic Activity supports the proposed Resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, and, in line with this occasion, demonstrates its commitment and commitment to political action and political activities by its representatives to build a democratic, fair and secure society by promoting co-existence, equality and tolerance, all to ensure lasting peace and perspective development of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6856	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6857	I thank the esteemed co-chair, esteemed co-workers and colleagues. So, as the promoters of this Resolution in preparation for the text of this Resolution, we have conducted consultations with a number of associations and only after talking to them and with their consent, we have sent this text of Resolution to the parliamentary procedure and we have already talked about it 78 weeks ago. Unfortunately, we must conclude that 20 years since the genocide in Srebrenica still remains the highest legislative body in BiH, so in this case, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not been able to manifest itself in connection with this extremely sensitive and painful topic for the whole country, but also with all other war crimes in BiH. And we think it's precisely the 20th anniversary of the opportunity to show not our own political responsibility, but one civilizational and moral gesture, as the highest legislative body in this country. A team before, because it was done by parliaments around the world. So this resolution, when you look at its contents, its text, is certainly one step perhaps small, but still a step towards justice, according to truth, towards building lasting peace in BiH. What is the content of this Resolution? I think that in the context of this Resolution, if we're going to talk about facts and arguments without any other connotations, there's a reason that all of us here in the House of Representatives support this text, because it's going from facts, because it's talking about the fact that it's verified planetary, so the genocide that was committed over the Bosniak population in Srebrenica. But also, at point 2, i.e. through point 3 of this Resolution, we are also talking about expressing our respect for all victims in BiH in the 1990s. Our position is therefore that crime, crime, and whoever committed it must be responsible. This resolution does not share the victims in that sense. This resolution therefore comes from some of the facts established by the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. This Resolution fully respects the text of the European Parliament Resolution, which was adopted in 2009 in Strasbourg. It also stresses the importance of consistent compliance with the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocides and the Construction of State Policy on Peace, Tolerance and Reconciliation. This is, therefore, among other things, part of the text of this Resolution and we as proposings would like to hear today possibly from those who do not want to support this text, what is controversial or what is problematic in the very text of this Resolution. It is impossible to talk about this subject, not to mention the role and responsibility of the international community. The Genocid occurred in the heart of Europe and in the UN's protected zone. The real issue is also for representatives of the international community here today from the BiH Parliament why the international community also allows the denial of the only genocide in Europe after World War II. BiH and the democratic world are waiting for an answer to that question. It is a particularly regrettable fact that right now, on the eve of the 20th anniversary, we have a situation that individual leaders are entityally denying both the BiH state and the internationally established facts. In adopting this resolution, I don't think there should be any pressure on the MPs. Bringing such a resolution should be an expression, first of all, I repeat, of our civilization and human obligations and forces, to rise above the daily policy, above the narrowing interests and obligations and beyond any vanity or prejudice. The most important thing about this Resolution, and I want to stress it in particular now, so the genocide in Srebrenica has been tried. And it's a planetary fact that cannot be denied. And this debate today can't change any gallanty. This, therefore, was established by the International Court of Justice, the UN's highest legal body. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and I also remind you of our constitutional obligation to respect the decisions of these courts. This is also confirmed by the United States Congress, the Parliament of Great Britain, the Parliament of Canada, the Parliament of Australia, not to count all parliaments around the world. The region's parliaments also confirmed that. So, what's the question today in front of the Predator's House, if anything that's recognised the whole world, we can finally confess here and turn a new page for BiH. I must say that it is an important aspect of this topic and the fact that BiH is a full member of the UN Organisation and that the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution oblige the BiH state to respect the objectives, principles and decisions of the UN Organization. So BiH is part of a planetary community of people whose goals, principles and decisions are binding on BiH. In addition to that, the UN Charter also speaks of point 1. - The UN rests on the principle of sovereign equality of its members. Point 2. 79 literally reads – all members knowingly fulfil the obligations they have made in accordance with this Charter. So this is Parliament of internationally recognised states, UN member states, and the UN Supreme Court ruled that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. This is a turning point for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina to see if after all these facts, whether after the entire planet was manifested in this regard, we still want to deny the planetary facts on the 20th anniversary. It will also be a very important message for the domestic public in BiH, but also for the whole world. Do we still have political forces in this country in one part of this country, ready to deny all the decisions of the UN, the European Parliament, the International Criminal Court, the numerous parliaments of the world. That's why I think this resolution is both a big crossroads and a test to see what's going on in BiH 20 years after the Srebrenica genocide. I am taking this opportunity to call today at the Parlement of BiH and the international community for the sake of peace and future of BiH, that 20 years after genocide in Srebrenica, they finally introduce zero tolerance for genocide negators in this country. To introduce zero tolerance for BiH breakers who publicly bring declarations, even with time limits, when they plan to break this country. As you can see, we are quite in BiH and the position and opposition are suffering, waiting, not making very big statements, but the question is, how long will we keep quiet, watching what happens while some others are openly working against the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of this country? We'll have to answer that question very quickly. And this Resolution on Srebrenica, it's not a question of the present or the past, it's a question of the future and the security of the people of this country. It is a question of the future of every child in this country, whether they live in a safe country where Parliament is willing to condemn genocide, a Parliament willing to condemn all war crimes in this country. Justice is a necessary prerequisite for building a peaceful and democratic BiH, but also for the stability of Southeast Europe. No matter what the outcome of today's vote, perhaps even in the second round, at the next session, we must never be discouraged or tired of seeking justice. The perpetrators, the creators, the war criminals and the genocide, must answer and be convicted, and I will end it. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6858	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6859	I thank the chairman. Well, I think it may be the smartest and best bet that we have respected the proposal of a respected colleague Ahmetović, that this is not at all discussed and that we all vote, because the victims of this debate and this debate here in Parliament will have consequences for those living today in Srebrenica. Neighbors who are drinking coffee this morning are probably not going to drink it together tonight. The kids who played together today won't play together tomorrow, because their parents will say, don't go to Vanja or don't go to Samre. Especially when this resolution adds to the fact that both Srbin were killed there and that I see earlier, on the warrant of Serbia, Naser Orić was arrested in Bern, and that BiH institutions and the Prosecutor General, whose prosecutor here, had done nothing about it, it is clear that the victims of this debate here will be residents of Srebrenica and not only Srebrenica, but also Bratunac and complete Birć, and that there will be new tensions. In this country, unfortunately not only about the past war, that we all have three sightings, three sides, but that's the way we've been through the last century. So we still can't agree today since 1914, 80 whether for one Gavrilo princip he was a hero, for the other he was a criminal and an assassin. Not to mention that we can't agree on World War II, that 70 years after Jasenovac, in the good part and those who declare themselves anti-fascists, there is no willingness to bow in Jasenovac. So, we have had this initiative several times in this House or similar, in this House, and I think that every initiation of these things and similar things in this House is unfortunately nothing more than the manipulation of the victims and therefore I fully understand Mr Ahmetović's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6860	Thank you. If nobody else, Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6861	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is a subject that is in any case causing public attention, since it is a painful past that we have to express our position in a civilized way and to open the door to a more realistic, objective and peaceful future for all of us in BiH. I'll only remind you of some dates that are related to the adoption of the Srebrenica genocide resolution. Like the European Parliament Resolution, which was adopted in Strazubur on 15 January 2009, which says that the resolution is not intended for the past, is intended for a living and better future, because the future of the Western Balkans is not possible without truth, justice and reconciliation. Of course, it is very important and it is not to ignore the fact that the countries of the region, our neighbours have adopted a similar or similar resolution, which indicates that it is clear to all of them what happened and that it is one of the essential preconditions really for living in this space, which everything that has been problematicly born and created in these areas and that it is high time to create assumptions for a better and quieter life. Also, in 2007, the UN court ruled that a mass crime was committed in Srebrenica, qualified as genocide. Of course, I think it is also important to mention the wider activities of the international community, and above all, I want to mention the Great Britain, the Netherlands and the United States, which, according to information very easily available, are preparing a UN resolution to declare on July 11th the day of memory of the victims of genocide. It is also important to mention those who may have been closest to these events, which is a statement by the Embassy of the Netherlands in BiH, where it says that the facts of genocide established by the International Court of Justice in The Hague and which are very important, and we hope that the Court's decision will be respected and that political predicators will understand the past in BiH, work together to establish a better future for all in this country, the Netherlands Embassy said. Of course, there is much more to be said about these things, and now we are talking about this on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Resolution in the European Parliament, we are not going to wait for more time to adopt this resolution on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Resolution in the European Parliament, which may be difficult to explain, if we had not had the strength and opportunity to accept one such act that speaks of our difficult past. Of course, a lot of this could still be said, but I just want to point out that the SBB Club will support this proposed text of Resolution. Thank you. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6862	Thank you. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6863	Thank you, Chairman. I will briefly, several times read the text of Resolution and try to look at it from the angle of those who are not going to be ready for some clues today, support this. I don't see any place, I'm joining what the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović was talking about, I don't see any place that could be controversial. It would probably be of many interest, those who are not ready to support it, to point the finger and so much to understand the intervention or regret of counterpart Ahmetović, which was not agreed on by the text, which is not somehow by the clubs or somehow to agree on how he should be. On the contrary to what MP Pandurević said, that no more children would play, I kind of see exactly the opposite, so that this declaration, I think, in some other direction, might have an effect, that after what we're saying post-factum, this is what happened, the resolution is talking about what it was. Now let's put it on paper and say a full pate to those who are regardless of faith, nation and everything else, who is innocently hurt, let's show it here. So if we did seem to look the truth into our eyes and agree and vote here, that maybe the children would rather play together and that neighbors and neighbors, somehow with a relief, would start drinking their coffees, which thank Bog, are already drinking together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6864	Thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6865	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am absolutely still putting that what Mr Ahmetović suggested, is the closest and that I was deeply convinced that he would do so. However, I only need one thing to say. About ten days ago, I had a chance to, I hope that this gentleman, my friend, would hallow it, I had a chance to have coffee with the head imam of Srebrenica and he told us one, there was one wider set and he told us a story interesting to all of us. He says, after a parade of youth in Bratunc, in Srebrenica in those Chetnic uniforms, he called me the leader of a Federation fan group and said, "Here's the efendium tomorrow, I'm coming with my own," he says, "Hey, guys, let's finish it there." I'm telling him, I asked - and then what happens when you leave? And he says, he's lost his lines. You say, "Bujrum, come, study the fatihah, drink coffee in Srebrenica, and come back from Srebrenica in peace." This is what I needed to tell all of us, how of those little people who live in that field, we need a lot to learn. I agree, again with Mr Ahmetović, pressing the key we will give each of us an opinion on this case, I think it may be best. Thank you. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6866	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6867	I have to specify one thing, so that you do not stay unsaid or that someone does not misread what colleagues Demirović and Ahmetović were talking about. Namely, when a resolution is proposed in Parlamettno, the resolution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure has two elements, one is the debate, and the other is the vote. No resolution means we keep our mouths shut. I believe that this resolution that the SDA MPs in the RS Assembly have also directed, not to be directed there to keep quiet, but to talk about the truth. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6868	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one ever answers my question again, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014 The information was delivered in the procedure on 12.05.2015. The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider the information. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the Information on 08.06.2015. The Commission has not received information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6870	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I didn't mean to talk, because it seems to me that year after year, we're talking about information about the work of the D.A., the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, etc. Because, in fact, neither does the situation improve, nor do we have any jurisdiction, except that here, we take it to the knowledge. Some of our colleagues say we won't even know, like we haven't heard anything. But here I am, and I've done my best, so I've read this a little bit, and I have to be honest, it's numbers and letters to me. Because, in fact, it's just formal information about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the essence is something else entirely. And basically I want to say a few sentences today and let me actually make it a sense of justice in BiH. Because the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH are institutions that give us that sense of justice or injustice, based on their work, their activities, based on what they do in the processing of those who make a mess in bh society. 83 Whether we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina a righteous or unjust society. We can bring a declaration here, we can conclude whatever we want, we can adopt, we can receive information, but it remains a feeling of BiH citizens that in fact, bh society is an unfair society in which we are not all equal before the law. In which we have daily violence against the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, these are not all acts of the BiH prosecution's jurisdiction, but I am talking about a whole system in general. And the most responsible for this is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and the prosecution is only one of the segments in BiH's judicial institutions. That is why I will set some examples. We've had a situation over the past few years, and I didn't want to talk about it, but here's a chance to say something and maybe fix it. By order of the Prosecutor's Office, owners, directors or I do not know the responsible persons of certain companies, businesses in BiH. The investigations last, the month is held, 2,3,5.6 or I don't know how long, or how much more, and after that, they're released. And then for years it's been like that. What are the consequences? The company lost its job, lost its business, lost its reputation, no legal charges, no charges against the responsible person, if already arrested, there must be some reason. So what do we got? We have a lot of cases like this in BiH. In fact, someone in the D.A.'s office is working consciously to bring down businesses with certain economic operators. In fact, it's an injustice, it's an unfair game of competition. So someone, if someone doesn't like you, they'll get in your way, because they've got some good damage in the D.A.'s office. And I want to talk about it publicly, talk about it, about things like that not happening. Because if this person committed a crime, a fraud or a fraud or anything else, then the charge must follow. If he didn't commit, then that someone who gave the arrest warrant, the arrest with all the spectacular arrests that we had the opportunity to see, then someone has to answer for it, jet, it doesn't make any sense anymore. I can list as many cases as you want, people who have imported sugar and turned up there is a high-ranking BiH institution official who has taken over the sugar market from, and this arrested poor man has been in jail for three months doesn't even know why and after that he lost the market, of course. Not to mention the other high-traffic goods, etc. But that's what it's all about. I also want to say something about co-operation between the D.A. and law enforcement agencies. I think it's gone beyond any measure to cover the illegal work of law enforcement agencies by the D.A.'s office. I'm not going to state my case, I'm saying this to our BiH chief prosecutor, I'm not going to talk about my case. But there have been many more cases where, unfortunately, a certain number of prosecutors have been involved in such immoral activities, I will not say illegal. Why? Unprofessional, politically colored and in every other way, here is a possible way not to say even more difficult qualifications, work or reluctant law enforcement agencies, why cover by the Prosecutor's Office or the Court of BiH. Not to mention the illegal interception of telecommunications, etc. Everything was and everything is there today in this country. And that's why I'm talking for a reason about the sense of injustice in bh society, and the prosecution is one of the segments that need to fix that feeling in a positive direction. Then, if you remember, there was one human cleaning woman, or at that time they called it a reform in BiH's judicial institutions since 2001 and 2002, when both the prosecutors and the BiH Court of Justice and other courts and judicial facts of lower levels, as they would say, have been brought incompetent. Here's a number of years have passed, I guess they could learn something through practice, although because of that learning in practice, we unfortunately have a sense of injustice in bh society today. What kind of personnel policy is it, how much the D.A.'s office has in the first place, is it affecting human policy within the D.A.'s office? Of course not, because we have a High Court and Prosecutor's Council that we've barely had to file a report on the cost of the donor funds they've received. Is that the dismembered center of power, is that also the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council then leading politics in someone's name? Here's me with all the right to talk about it. And when we get to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council report, I'll talk about it. So let's fix things. That's why I'm not ready, which some of my 84 colleagues would say, I don't want to look at this report, this information on the prosecution's work. No, because they're working wrong, but because actually year after year, we repeat the same things and the same mistakes. And I want that gesture to actually distract the public, that the situation needs to be fixed. Here's two more things to mention. Now we're reading on the portals that Naser Orić was arrested. This is the result of an interstate agreement concluded between BiH and Serbia. So how many more of my men, how many more? Is that the realisation of these agreements means that someone has given himself a political stance that there was a civil war in BiH. He always arrests someone who arrives without any responsibility for such actions. Not to mention realising, not to be wrong, to be precise in the name of the document, it's a war crimes processing program, so it seems to me to be called or something. If you have a situation to process one Bošnjak, one Srbin and one Hrvat, what does that mean? So, the same responsibility system in BiH was then a civil war, whether it killed three tribes there, etc. Instead of being realized in full capacity as it is written, it is actually the first to process those serious war crimes, rapes, killings, exodus, mass executions, etc. We've got a situation to process before if someone looked at someone wrong or God Bog they hit him with a slap, etc. Now, that's what I want to say, and that's why I don't want to vote for this document today, not because it's not exactly what's written, nor because I blame you most for the overall sense of injustice in BiH, but for the public's attention to what they say is wrong in the country of Denmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6871	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6872	I thank you every time, Mr. Chairman. We have a report in front of us that can be secluded in different ways, but before I do, it is necessary to make an effort and understand what is on the back, on the shoulders of this prosecution, what it has in its jurisdiction. From that inter-entity crime, to that international, to the organized, to the terrorism and to end, it means in that war chain '92-'95. For years, war crimes. So this dispersion of their work is not small at all and it's not municipal courts or entities or cantonal, it's something that's much more and more complicated than anyone who actually wants to get into the essence of the problem. A team before our law or what's called the procedural part, the possibility of filing applications, statements, knowledge, knowledge, that I don't list everything, too huge. The way the D.A.'s doing it, now that you're back in that glue from the bottom down, it gets even more complicated. It's a system that we have, our investigation and protection agencies, what it is, how much of that we have in that dispersion, how we're distracted when the work of the internal security authority is, it's entity, cantonal, so everyone has their departments. And a special story, it's professional, what does professional mean? That our prosecutors so far in their practice never had that kind, ever. What does organized crime mean? What does inter-entity mean? Which means international, what, what, what and so on, we get to war crimes again. And then we come to what's called working in the D.A.'s office. And as my colleague, dear colleague Šemso, spoke, can I stop this story now, the division of water? __________(?) 85 [[no microphone turned on]] How did my esteemed colleague Šemso speak, please? I've been calling you Šemso since the day we met, and you told me that I could, as far as I can remember, Šemsudin Mehmedović respected representative, it would be very interesting that within the Prosecutor's Office, you can investigate who, in which way and where the information that becomes bombistic comes from and that they don't contain a shred of truth, or even what you do. Trained, as my colleague Šemsudin said, by his own example, by his own example, based on a cut-off statement and half a sentence of the total sentence in the interview, was given a warrant to search my family's apartment. So half of the sentence was cut, my sentence was: yes, Mr. Senad, there are neatly managed journals and it's so taken. What I said next was out of the question. And because of those neatly kept journals, there's been a search of my apartment. Now these journals are operational journals, because here's Bojić here knows what it means, the unit, the headquarters and so on, which I can't have at home. But that's not why I'm saying it, but I'm saying it because it's just amazing that before I was informed that I was being searched, I read it on the portals. How did the portals find out before, if that's a secret? How come television teams, and interestingly, only one entity found themselves in front of my apartment and knew exactly where I lived, before I showed up in front of my apartment. That's interesting stuff. Also interesting things are, and of course I accept that you're doing the same investigation as you've been conducting, and I want it to go to the end, absolutely to the end, that at least you didn't add that the total time is two hours and fifteen minutes, and that the videos have been shown to you for over 24 hours. And how come your prosecutors didn't even notice that I was speaking Ichakawa and not Ekva, but that the videos were in Ekva language? That's very interesting. Damir, thank you very much, because you have helped me very much in this, not that, but you have helped me through the Ganić process before, very much. So I'm saying that there's got to be, too, how it's possible that the film teams are making a spectacle, and then, I don't know if they're yours, or if they're from the SIPA, I don't know who they are, the camera that takes pictures of everything they're looking at, brings out the sensational news, and that's confirmed by your spokeswoman. Yeah, the bag was taken out, they took out the camera they took the picture of. You know, it suffers, the ones that do it, I don't say it... myself, I'm a pretty strong person, I can take it, but people are experiencing some kind of embarrassment in life because of these things. That's why you're still in that hierarchy, of course I'm going to say it in particular, and those who investigate here are going to report, so I'm going to ask them how is it possible that an hour before the TV crew gets here, and that's what all the neighbors tell me, they're all being mounted. To ask them how it's possible, how do they know that? And after that, I end up in the hospital, I end my wife, end up, so no one answers. No one answers for these people's heart attacks, that's all right. Your complexity of the job requires an education of the prosecutor. I was surprised, he asked one of your prosecutors to explain the concepts to him. When I told him, well, all right, man, that's a dirty paper game for you. He didn't know what dirty paper was. It's not dirty paper. It's in banking business, which means dirty paper. And not to speak, he didn't know what the Basel Convention was, what the basis of the legislation was. They have to be educated. And so, by all segments, they have to be educated. Because we didn't have what we had today. We live in a time when it's not a socialist system of organization, no segment, no economy, and that's why they think they're of the sharn companies, and you had someone bigger on TV explaining economic experts, what they are. So that's why they think they're free customs zones, so they think, the whole of Europe would have to go to jail, here I am, because Lukesmburg, which is in the EU's free banking zone, is free. In the middle of London, 400 meters from the palace, you have a small island in the Thames, which is a free zone. We have to learn these things. And we need to adapt to the business within the arrangement we live in, and this is called the exploitation society. It's not capitalism, it's 86 original accumulations, whoever put up the pits, and those who are really pits will survive, and those who steal the bag of potatoes will be in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6874	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6875	I thank the president. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, by reading this report, I have a need to address several of my thoughts on the same, or to try to address that prosecutor or it is irrelevant, so I get some answers. In fact, when I was only two years ago three, on the other hand, not to say the law, but to these halls, or not to participate in the great executives, it seemed to me that by some officials, ministers, MPs, when they sit somewhere, they think they're the state. So it seemed to me that sometimes they took the right to change the law, to make decisions. That's what it seems to me in the case of this body once, so whose report is in front of us today, the D.A.'s office. What Mr. Šemsudin said, not to make a mistake, so spectacular arrests of this nature or that nature, then only silence and nothing further. The answer to what's going on, as an ordinary citizen, is that you see some important people being taken into custody there, important businessmen. After about five days of this thing going through some media hack or I don't know what it is, you don't have any more answers that actually happened. And it really requires some kind of answer and it's looking for a solution to what it is and how it's actually done. But why did I mention it? Because I'm going to mention perhaps some of the more important things that are happening, more important issues that are being addressed by the prosecution, which is, for example, The War Crimes Department, where we didn't have an answer yesterday, is breaking up on the Constitutional Commission, when I asked about the process, therefore, the investigation, which refers to conversations, or hearings of witnesses. In fact, not only the last, this is how I'm eight months advocacy, but even two days ago, so the prosecution, i.e. the icy organs, the bodies, is having conversations with witnesses in a way that doesn't seem appropriate to me, doesn't seem even legal, but here I guess I'll get the answer that's the case. Namely, they are called telephones, talks are being held about a certain event from the war with dozens, up to a little and hundreds of witnesses. Does quantity mean that Bog is not given the fear of having the necessary or desired answer or a clue or I don't know what, whether Bog wants it to spread fear in the space in which it is done, how it is chosen, how witnesses are placed on the witness list, because as far as I have information, when these witnesses are being worked and followed, then they are actually being questioned by them, who you are, what you are, where you have been. So sometimes people, or most often, don't even know who the prosecutor is, in any case they testify, testify anywhere, call them by phone, visit them by house, walk in villages twenty years after the war. So, they're not the witnesses that are listed here in the report, and then we get a response to the Constitutional Commission, which are out there, so as the gentleman told us, then we catch them when they come say, here, because it's best for Christmas. So it's Christmas, it's Easter, it's New Year's Eve, it's maybe Bajram. I'm talking about everyone in general, it's about the time of the election process, so it's about a time when I don't know if I need to work then after twenty years, for witnesses, especially those who are there. Notingly, they are witnesses, so they are not suspects, and that someone would not have misunderstood me, so that, therefore, if I had not given Bog, I was protecting some crime. No, let's investigate each and every one of them, but it seems to me this 87 way, inappropriately, and I don't think that's right, not even with regulations and rules of conduct. But I hope for such a thing, I get an answer. I didn't mean to talk about it this way or today, that I didn't have a parallel Personal Data Protection Agency report that we had before one or two points, when I found, therefore, one inappropriate, here to call it mildly, a conflict in which I saw that the Personal Data Protection Agency was looking for some data, or doing its job by law enforcement and visiting certain prosecutions, she got me to say so, the answer from the prosecution's application, the initiation of an investigation. Then it led me to really, really, working with witnesses, when it's already done like this between the two state institutions, and that's not even in the D.A.'s report here, because as the representative told us on the Constitutional Commission, he says - we've just brought problems here. It's like it wasn't a problem at all, and it seems to me it's a very serious problem, but here, we'll see what answers. So then it seemed to me that really someone when you put some remark on his work, then he has mechanisms, then he has mechanisms, I said again I did not let Bog spread fear, to assume the state, to come out of his ingenuity. I hope it's not so, it's just my impression and if it's really my impression, I'm starting to apologize, but everything I've heard in space, and especially when it comes to sensitive issues like war crimes. I have at least one piece of information at this point, and I can offer it to the attorney general, in which ten years ago, a person gave both his name and his last name and event, and we have no information on what happened, whether anything ever started. And there's hundreds of witnesses out there looking for some kind of event. Let it be sought with all of us from BiH, not a problem, but therefore, simply in a way that I think is appropriate. I think that's the way it used to be in '49. When he was there... or whatever his name was, he was walking in the woods looking for people who were with opposing armies and I don't know what it all looked like. I don't know if I can change my attitude or my impression of it, and I think I might be able to see for myself through the next one. First of all, I could be sure, now I've been focusing a little bit on these war crimes, but there is this problem of everyone in other areas covered by the prosecution, which Mr. Backović was saying, it would be good to see, therefore, some synthetics here, according to the prosecutors, so how many cases they had in the work, and what is their effect after that. So it would be seen from it, how the prosecutor works. The other thing I'd like on the subject of what I've been saying most is, if it can be won, if it's not a secret, and I don't think it's a secret, let's see how much of a process is at this point, when war crimes are alive and in what legal status they're in. So I don't care how many witnesses, which regions, but can we get that for example? From the space I come from, I don't even know if there are any cases that I know war crimes have been committed, even in considering the prosecution, and I don't know how to do that. If I can't get this today, so if the D.A. can get me or who's interested in delivering such a list, is that 350 cases being conducted in court, 1 is in this legal status, one in that, one in this phase, so I don't need it anymore. Because otherwise, then I can ask for some other measures that are available to me as a representative. I therefore hope that those to whom this applies will not misread these remarks of mine. It's my strong impression that that's how it's done. I wish I didn't have them. Talking to people where I live and where I work, I get that impression. I wish I wasn't right, and here I guess I'll hear some kind of superfluous answer to that, and I hope I'll be pretty sure of what I was saying. Thank you very much. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6876	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I will put only two aspects of this report, i.e. information on the prosecution's work in the first place. Of course, you could talk about this long and wide. I will not talk about the impressions in the RS on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, of course I will also avoid those politically different connotations and thinking about this, but two things I cannot mention, or I would ask the chief prosecutor to clarify these two issues. The first problem is that even after the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Maktouf-Maktouf-Damjanović case, the indictments under the BiH Criminal Law continue, therefore, to be filed. I would really like to get a meaningful answer, which is why we continue with this practice if the European Court of Human Rights has made it perfectly clear in this case, and I guess it has made an analogy with all other cases that may eventually appear in the next period. The second clarification I need concerns the transfer of the case from the BiH Court to entity courts, which is of course defined by the strategy, with the ultimate goal of completing proceedings in some seven years before the Court of Justice on the most complex cases and the raise, to say, or not to press charges on those cases which have been partly transferred from The Hague tribunal, and in part proceedings within BiH are conducted without being led before The Hague tribunal. At the time that objects are now being transferred to the entity level, it will not happen anymore, but clearly, and the prosecution will not be able to complete all these cases in seven years. And especially what I want to clarify is the process, the reverse process of it. Namely, certain cases at the level of BiH's judicial institutions are being directed to entity level, and then, after a while, they return from the entity to the level of BiH judicial institutions, which, in my view, is, in fact, drawing the process apart and not contributing to the solution of the problem, but rather the opposite. A state of confusion is created in the functioning of judicial institutions, which can eventually lead to some misunderstandings, so if you want to reduce the efficiency of the entire system, when it comes to war crimes issues. It would be a good idea if the chief prosecutor could explain the prosecution's thoughts, or the prosecution's intentions in the next period when it comes to this area purely for the reason that we can observe the next report or reports after the next report through the prism of the realization of what we hear here today. So if we say that I don't know, the BiH Court of Justice is dealing with 70 or 170 cases in the next five or ten years, then that we see clearly the next year whether or not the prosecution's plan is being realized, or if we're going to be spinning around like this for the next 30 years, I guess until we both have witnesses and the defendants die. Which, of course, does not lead to a reconciliation process in these areas, i.e. leaving behind something that is, therefore, incomplete and that will be unfinished in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6878	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, he has a word. Here you go. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6879	I thank the chairman. A respected colleague mentioned the procedure in London against former member of the presidency of the Republic of BiH, Dr Ganić, and this reminded me that one of the main bids in what the Court of Justice in London ultimately described as a politically motivated procedure initiated by the Republic of Serbia, one of the main bids was the UN tribunal's reports, namely the UN tribunal's chief prosecutor on the state of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So that was five years ago and then reports by the chief UN tribunal prosecutor on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's capacities in the processing of war crimes, objectivity, etc. were extremely affirmative, while reports on the Serbian prosecutor's office were extremely negative. Now, unfortunately, it looks like the opposite situation. And you, when you look at the BiH Prosecutor's Report, which was presented to us on Monday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, and now it's in front of us here in this House, it's evident that this report, when it comes to the war crimes segment, gives us one such pink picture positive, and then when we compare it to the last five reports of the UN Security Council's semi-annual UN tribunal, or the UN chief prosecutor's report, in this case, Mr Bramerac, that picture is not real at all. So the picture our D.A.'s giving us is completely contrary to what the chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal is giving to the Security Council. And on the Constitutional Commission, I was talking about some of the things that Chief Prosecutor Bremerc presented in his report to the Security Council, and unfortunately, the representative of the Prosecutor's Office who was present on, or who was a minor rapporteur in front of the Constitutional Commission, said he couldn't talk about that part about war crimes because paraphrasing was not his fault. And I totally understand that, so from a personal and professional point of view, man does other things. However, I believe that the BiH Prosecution then had an obligation to send enough people who could have argued on all parts of the Prosecutor's Report, so not only the person who deals with one part of this report. Because this report includes, among other things, a segment of war crimes. And now I'm just going to quote what Mr. Bremerac's report to the UN Security Council and to be completely objective, I'm going to quote this November 2014 report, given that the D.A.'s report that's in front of us today refers to 2014. Although Mr Bremerc filed a report six days ago before the UN Security Council for the first half of 2015, which suggests that things are worse. But here, let's stick to the period of your report, so 2014 and see what Mr. Bremerc says to the UN Security Council for the second half of 2014. That the processing of war crimes in BiH is significantly, significantly late, that there is only limited progress, but that important issues remain unresolved, and that previous promises have not yet been implemented. He also says that there is an attempt to increase the number of indictments, but that this affects the quality of the indictments themselves. The UN tribunal's chief prosecutor is also expressing special concern about it. Then in paragraph 46 on page 31 of his report, he says this is the fifth time in a row, I say again it's half-yearly reports, the fifth time in a row that the Office of the UN Prosecutor's Office has been forced to report that progress is not satisfactory. It then says that the strategy, the National War Crimes Strategy, is significantly late and that all this is happening although there has been an increase in the number of prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office during 2014. I'll wait for you when you're done. Although there has been a significant increase in the BiH Prosecutor's Office during 2014, here is the chief UN tribunal prosecutor, saying the number of prosecutors has almost doubled, from 19 to 37, but this has not led to an improvement in the implementation of the National War Crimes Processing Strategy. And yet he says the quality of work is diminishing, to increase the number of indictments, and is expressing particular concern about it. That there is less progress in processing the most complex and priority cases and that all this is happening, means all this backlog in the BiH Prosecutor's Office is happening, while progress is being made in 90 entity courts. This is particularly devastating, given that the biggest training, the biggest training, the largest resources went to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and here is the chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal in the December 2014 report -- that entities, i.e. entity judicial authorities, are progressing, and the State Prosecutor's Office is turning back. So this is completely contrary to the information we have in the BiH War Crimes Prosecutor's Report, and I can't really accept that the fifth report in a row, as the chief prosecutor in his Security Council report says he's not real and that this one is your real. Because the chief prosecutor has submitted this to the UN Security Council five times in a row. So it's an extremely serious job that is extremely this, a serious report, or five in a row. And here, given that this refers to the November 2014 report, he reiterated it in the report again in May 2015, that there was a setback. The paragraph 40, since I heard a comment on, otherwise I didn't want to look back on the May 2015 report, but I heard from some comment, paragraph 47 on page 23 says that the implementation of the National War Crimes Processing Strategy continues to face serious delays and a number of unsolved cases. So that's paragraph 47, page 23. Now let's go back to this 2014 report, which also applies to your reporting period. The chief prosecutor then said in the report that the increase, or almost double the number of prosecutors in the BiH prosecution, did not lead to progress, from 19 to 37. And your colleague who was on the Constitutional Commission said something that is really worrying, and I hope this House will deal with it, he said literally – there is not much to expect from these young people right now. Look, these are BiH prosecutors, I think I really want to expect a lot of these young people, so they're not interns, so these people signed up for some competition and those 19 that were admitted, I'm sure they weren't the only ones who applied, I'm sure there were a lot of applications. And then it was chosen, I guess, hopefully, the best 19. And if we of those best, of the best, of the best, we can't expect much right now, so who can we expect from? Especially if entity prosecutors get commendations from the UN tribunal's chief prosecutor, and we are told that in the State Prosecutor's Office we cannot expect much from these young people immediately. That's really worrying, saying we can't expect much right now, that's worrying. So what are these people, young people doing at the job? I say again, these are not interns, these are BiH prosecutors and I think that the BiH public, this Parliament, the Constitutional Commission on which this House was said and this House, have a lot of right not to say very much to the citizens of BiH, are very much expecting right away, from these young people, because I am sure that when they applied for the job, they said that they should get that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6880	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Rančić, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6881	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, respected guests, before me, my colleagues and colleagues spoke about several aspects of this report. Here I'm going to try to talk about two, three, about this formal-law, statistical, I'm going to try to do something in the second part about the essence, the quality, and in the end maybe some technical aspects of this report. If we were to look at this report formally and statistically numerically, we see that in the work of the Prosecutor's Office, at least that's how they wrote and showed it to us, so in this essential part, 91 I mean three anti-crime, war crimes, organized third-party crime departments, there are certain shifts to better, not significantly, not in large numbers, not in large percentages, but as shown in the report, so there are these shifts. Like what? Here on page 10, as indicated, so the prosecutors of the Special War Crimes concept were in '14. A total of 57 indictments have been filed against 119 persons, the largest number of indictments filed in the history of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and is an increase of 84% compared to the number of indictments brought in 2013 in relation to cases, i.e. an increase of 70% compared to the number of accused persons. And now here it states, of course, that I'm not going to go into detail, how many orders are there to carry out, or whether, in the absence of an investigation, the conduct of investigations, the order to suspend investigations, and ultimately the number of charges brought against them is 57 against, and therefore 119 persons. A similar thing could be said when other departments are considered, but here I say in the register in the cases of KTARZ, therefore, unknown to war crimes, also states that they solved 436 KTARZ cases, so they did as early as 01.01.2015, and there were 1,552 items left. And if they compare that to the '13 results. In the year, it is evident that the Special War Crimes Department in these cases has solved 436 cases, which is a reduction in 162 cases. When we look at the work of the second BiH Prosecutor's Department dealing with organised crime, economic crime, corruption, some similar figures, so we can also quote on the number of cases, applications, prosecution decisions on non-prosecution, investigation, suspension of investigations and whether criminal charges have been filed. So we see from this information, Izvješaj that the number of applications in Section II work was higher by 53 compared to the number of cases, or 413, higher than the number of persons. They say they have resolved three more investigations, compared to the number of cases, while the majority of investigations by the number of persons remained the same. It's a similar thing, so it's a third grade. For me, it's a bit of a worrying paragraph last on page 26 that says, in relation to the work of the second department, that seven cases against 22 persons have been passed, and reluctant to three persons. In the light of all the judgments made, the prosecutors of Special Section II filed complaints in a total of 20 cases against 63 persons, of which the number of people was respected in four cases compared to nine persons, and eight complaints against 30 persons was rejected. So when the number of acquittals, refutes and the number of denied appeals filed by the prosecution, would be worth comparing the number, the total number of applications, the indictments and the outcome of whether, this Section, would result in the results and effects of this Section's work. Because, of course, the job of the D.A.'s office is this as the charges and prosecution are coming before the Court, but in the jurisdiction of the Court is the verdict. And of course, judging by the logic of things depends on the quality of the subject, its preparation, its evidence and everything that goes with the criminal problem. Two cases were discovered unknown, while 23 were still pending from a total of 25 cases. I see from this report that the D.A.'s office from all three departments filed, if I've collected well, it seems to me 191 criminal charges. Although another column says that we have 192 confirmed court applications. It's probably one of the previous ones, from the previous year 22 that were left unconfirmed, probably part of those confirmed and part of your submitteds, so maybe this one's different. Now, when we analyze a little bit, these are numbers and formal access and statistics. When we analyze what happens to these 191 applications from all three departments, in that qualitative part, I consider it by table on page 45 and about the decision of the Court in 2014. In this table, the Court of Justice says that I'm sorry, excuse me just a little bit, that the Court has reached 60 convictions for 121 persons with a prison sentence. That's 35% of the applications filed in 2015. I'm a little sorry, so I said before, I know it's not done, it's been followed by reports from before, but 92 doesn't matter, this is our year of cut. I know that the verdict in 2014 can be made for some case even from some previous year. I know it, I know you know it. But simply, this is 01.01.2014 and 31.12.014. So then, I compare the number of applications to court decisions relating to that quality, at least that's how I measure it. So we have 60 convictions for 121 persons with a prison sentence. Then we have eight convictions for 17 persons with fines. And then we have, for me, something that's huge, I can't believe this, 80 paroles for 160 people, which is 46.78% of all 171 court decisions. The note has no one, liberating none, so 148 convicts, in this way 60 prisons, 8 fines and 80 parolees, for 298 persons, of 171 court rulings for 349 persons. I think this is a bad structure. Here, of course, like all of you, I respect the judicial authority. She's independent, she's independent, I don't appreciate their work this way, I don't put pressure on myself, but I want to ask myself a question, is that in a causal relationship with the quality of the case and the indictments brought before the prosecution's courts? I'm particularly worried about knowing the importance of the prosecution, their report is about, and the structure of the crimes that this prosecution is responsible for, so war crimes, organised crime, economic crime, corruption has a third department there and then we have the highest number of parole convictions. I don't know how it's been treated, how much the D.A.'s been complaining about these decisions, whether they've been changed this year or changed in some years, but this segment is worrying me. I wish that structure was different, more quality. About these technical aspects, I found some mistakes, so I'd like to point out a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6882	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6883	They certainly don't repeat themselves anymore. For example, on page 72, when you file a report collectively for the cantonal prosecutions, you're saying you've been charged with cases 42,431 for 16,415 persons, and not the other way around 16 are faces and 415, and pardon, 16,415 cases a
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6884	Time, time, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6885	And just for a little while, also on the back page, there are the same mistakes, on page 75, and in the number of applications received and in the number of total charges filed. I would like as a proposal, and I would like to achieve that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is working in a way that prosecutors make more quality prosecutorial decisions, whether they make a decision, an order not to conduct an investigation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6886	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6887	about the conduct, the suspension or the prosecution. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6888	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6889	I thank the chairman. A lot of this has been said by my esteemed colleagues, and it seems to me that on the work of the Prosecutor's Office in this House, at least as far as I've been here for five years, they've never been closer to the attitudes between us. I think we all want to live in a legal, fair and orderly state. And it's certain that it's the justice system that needs to be provided. But is that so? I was hoping there was a chance of a normal life here, because as the newly respected lady Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil or the Devil-Vražalica-Gasal-Gasal rings if I'm wrong, which we're talking about when there's no one left here in 50 years, they really won't. Why would anyone stay? Where does someone live? Where does he leave his children? In a country where I hope things will change after the arrest of Pandora. What have we got here, eight months after "Pandora," "Pandora" action? Do we have a charge? We have Zdravko Cvjetinović, who was, at least according to the media allegations, a second suspect who returned to the post of assistant director of customs. And then we have in this report where the unsub of the report boasts that for the fight against crime, corruption has been rewarded with the badge of the Direct Taxation Board, I don't know if Zdravko Cvjetinović was in the commission. But on the other hand, the man who reported the crime at the Department of Direct Taxation, Battles and Sufferings had to be returned to the workplace because he was the subject of the persecution of the current director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and was returned, I heard the other day, but after certain, not to say where the intervention came from. And not only was Zdravko Cvjetinović returned, but 11 more people were returned. I wonder if it's not enough time, here's when it was the Pandora action in June, July, until today to press charges. We're missing capacity, but that's why we have seven prosecutors for terrorism, and France with 64 million residents has 7 U.S. Attorneys for Terrorism. Right, the country's priority should be to fight terrorism, but I wonder what so many terrorism prosecutors are going to do. Well, God Bog every day we have some terrorist activity in BiH, enough of them. Can't you do some internal systems and get these prosecutors to the organized crime department? I'm wondering, here's something when I'm already thinking about the IRS, here's what I'm saying to you publicly, that you already know who the IRS is going to buy the building from indirect taxation in Banja Luka. He'll buy it from Milovanović, Kaja's nickname, the tender hasn't been yet. So I'm reporting you public corruption and crime. And do you know who a certain Mr. Kaja is? The owner of the MG Mind company, which, according to the BiH Court's rulings, washed 6 million marks across two companies, along with Robot Idion of Shirok Brijeg's tax evasion of 1.1 million marks and no one is guilty. So it's in the verdicts, people have done it, but no one's responsible for it. Whose fault is that? I'm not gonna tell the D.A., I don't know if the D.A. has knowingly made a failure in the indictment, maybe it's the Court of BiH, but we definitely have a problem with the institutions. Whether it's the prosecution, whether it's the BiH Court, maybe one or the other, but you have a great responsibility. BiH is Europe's most corrupt country. They are responsible – who? The BiH Prosecutor's Office is responsible, including other prosecutors. Because if you are under the influence of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, then no organised crime, corruption, etc. is being prosecuted. It's yours to fight it. Yours is to arrest a politician who makes it impossible for you to do your job. Here, we have another major issue of the polling affair, over a billion marks taken out of the RS, brought abroad. Who's doing this thing? By my free assessment, 94 BiH's Prosecutor's Office is responsible for international crime. But it's not because I know, I've been watching the report by the RS MUP, the second suspect in the RS MUP report is Aleksandar Džombić, and there's a lot more, and there's Minister Tegelti. And of course the Special Prosecutor's Office that Milorad Dodik made will never process it. But BiH's prosecution of the case is if nothing could be reported from the media and the media knows what crime is and should have been done on official duty. Of course, I'm not going to accuse you of anything, but I hope you're aware of the responsibilities you have for the future of this country, because this has become a country where no one else in their right mind will live, in which I am in a position to live and I can ask what I'm doing here. What I'm doing here and whether I want to live in a country where it's abnormally normal, where criminals aren't in jail. You can only imagine how the unemployed, and the unemployed, make a terrible population of this country think and it's up to you to change that. Of course, there is political responsibility, but you must be the bearer of the fight against crime and corruption. As far as I'm concerned, I'll take a brief look at the processing of war crimes. Unfortunately, it is the same year after year, and much has been said by the esteemed colleague Arnaut. Selective processing, a large number of indictments, are subject to, in order to have a larger number of cases, the same subject is divided, etc. What we're not right about, Mr. Bramerc isn't right either, okay? Last year, 60% of war crimes suspects Srbin. We still do not have the case of Sijekovac, tuzlanski, dobrovoljački, we still have the retroactive application of the Criminal Law of BiH, the problems with exhumation and the commendation that it is working closely with the victims of the war. I have here a memo from the RS association saying that co-operation is not enough pictures, but concrete results are needed. So I will also conclude my discussion with this, once again I will appeal to you, that here today if you should speak openly to this Parliament if you have any political pressures or if there are any legal obstacles to the processing of organised crime, what is it that this Parliament can do to make this finally legal and just state, the state in which everyone will be responsible for what it has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6890	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Borjana Krišto, and then Mr. Damir Bećirović, I apologize to Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6891	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Your Honor, Chief Prosecutor, Deputy and all the guests who are here for this agenda item. I will also say something very short, of course, by respecting all this debate that the distinguished colleagues and colleagues have said about this point, because the good part of that some kind of debate stretches and kind of coincides with my thinking. Looking at this information, because actually this is not even a report this is one Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and comparing to the previous years, in fact it only statistically means different in terms of, here are the number of employed, certain cases that are systematicized by departments, but of course not more important. Of course, it also contains problems in the work within each department and ultimately contains problems in general in the work of the Prosecutor's Office, meaning that the work of the Prosecutor's Office is difficult. And it is also something that is repeated from, in a way, information to information from previous years of 95 lack of office space, which is reportedly directly reflected in the productivity of staff, to an inadequate and inadequate space for keeping active files and archiving completed files, and storage of taken objects from other evidence material, then insufficient capacity regarding human resources with a special emphasis on insufficient numbers of prosecutors. What I've also seen here in this information is that, and we know that every year in some way, it's not a small number, but by systematization, I see that the Prosecution started in 2014 with the number of employees around 50, and ended with 53 prosecutors. And of course, what can I say in short to get an impression of the work of this institution? Indeed, I won't say much, indeed there are certain people who are competent and certainly are up to their post regardless of where they are located, meaning whether in the lower prosecutions or here in particular in the BiH Prosecutor's Office that they are about, but surely that a large number of prosecutors are not professional and competent to do their job, we have a lot of reasons and facts that point to that. And, of course, it's not a matter of the prosecutor or perhaps this information, it's a matter of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that someone mentioned, because it's directly their responsibility to appoint, or for the whole, I would say, the organisation of the judiciary and the appointment of one of the others and the prosecutor. We know well that there is neither the responsibility nor the rem of this Parliament, nor any other institution, nor the Tužiteljsta, nor there is an evaluation of the work and, of course, with all these remarks, we cannot expect it to be in any way different work. What I want to mention here is that it is the Prosecutor's Office that does not know constitutional or legal provisions, so let us all remember that here in Parliament, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has delivered a letter on the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court which has not been carried out, then the non-execution of decisions of the European Court of Justice, etc., where we all know that the Prosecutor's Office has the legitimate right to require state authorities, businesses, legal and natural persons to provide them with information. But at this request, when it comes to the BiH Constitution, which has made it clear that members of the Parliamentary Assembly have immunity from criminal and civil responsibility for any procedure carried out under their duties during the term of office in the parliamentary Skopje. So I ask myself and all of us, were they and what else to say than to put pressure on this Parliamentary Assembly, regardless of the provisions of the laws they speak as criminal provisions, some are called upon, there is also a criminal act that is prescribed as a result of the irresponsibility of decisions. But we also need to know that there is no body defined in the Constitution, nor in the law which is required to implement, or implement, the decisions of these institutions. So I can't understand that the Prosecutor's Office on the one hand means in some way what needs to be in the rule of law and respect at the end of both the Constitution and certain laws, it makes such failures, just means the familiar things, and that it's in situations where we don't have insight in some way. So even after that, here I will mention a number of other decisions of the Prosecutor's Office, so I will not repeat them, from fellow Lovrinović to all others who mentioned them as well as in this case. I would say that such situations have been done of course before, but also from the current prosecutor, I remember well that information in the media is going to be about raising one of the biggest indictments as against organised crime in post-day BiH, this is actually a statement from one statement, and it has become, in some way, a rule. The case was usually driven by spectacular arrests in front of TV cameras, journalists are informed to come to the scene before the meaning of those special forces, media reports and then the indictment either has or is ours, and most importantly, there is no trial, no conviction. In fact, what's the point? Perhaps the goal is just to create in public and make the impression that the prosecution, the police and the judiciary are doing a lot of work, and the results of the fight against organised crime, 96 or the results of the prosecution's work, see here from this report, are lagging behind. If that is such evidence, here is a colleague mentioned, and I would like to stress that BiH is on a scale of highly corrupt countries in Europe and the world. I would also remember in this review cases only from 2014, because this Information refers to that year, which were in some way in the public's focus and had strong political implications for the functioning of the system of state and entity institutions, and are also indicative of the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Let's remember, it's been a year since the crossings in cities across the Federation, some qualified by social, some political, non-essential, mostly aimed at destroying the government, both by cantons and so on, burning buildings, we've witnessed from the Presidency to other institutions, etc. – Are your arsonists or pyromaniacs processed? Are we sending a message that buildings can be set on fire, that there's anything to be done without, that means you'll be punished as perpetrators? Then we have other cases of also high-ranking officials who, I don't know, are because of the unauthorized carrying or holding of weapons, and in the end it all ended the way it ended. And then the case of Deputy Prime Minister Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, I will mention the name because these are cases concerning the BiH Prosecutor's Office as well. Let's think of buying votes, etc. We all say that, I don't know either, and through the Central Election Commission reports, etc., where we personally raised evidence ourselves, etc., we filed reports in such cases, nothing was ever processed, and even more we received answers that the investigation was suspended because there was no evidence. Then an affair of listening to the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice, the arrest of the BiH court judge, the Čaušević case and many others. All these are the meanings of situations in which I would like to see an analysis and that in some way we all come up with some answer to these questions – why do these cases not have adequate legal and judicial procedures and their epilogue? Why were bombings announced and so large cases launched and ended up unsuccessfully? If there is, and is certain to be, some subjective, professional, professional or personal reasons or inadequate regulatory, material capacity or something else, it would be good to hear it here in this House and to do some sort of step in this regard. Our institutions simply do not have the expected success in the fight against crime and corruption, unfortunately we must conclude and see from this report. The consequences of this report and this kind of work are harmful, both for human rights and for the rule of law, for a negative impact on the development of the economy, we have no investment, we do not have normal, let me say, competition on the market, and we also bring down the international reputation of BiH. Here is my contribution in the sense that this Parliament is doing everything possible in terms of legal legitimacy to amend the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in terms of and organisation of appointments, as well as responsibilities in matters of the Prosecutor's Office so that, with such amendments, legal legislation can create a basis for the functioning of the rule of law. It is the only guarantee and security of the future of all our peoples and citizens living in this BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6892	Thank you. We have one replica and one discussion. After that, the D.A.'s chief prosecutor, and then we'll end the debate. I'd like to ask you to take a little care of the weather if we can in any way, although it doesn't have to be, so we'll be done by 7:15 with the session. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6893	I thank the chairman. 97 Ma, offered by the discussion of the distinguished Mrs. Krišto, who reminded here of hearings by MPs for not implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions. I may abuse this House, but we don't have a chance to see the Attorney General every day, I have to express my disdain. Because on the one hand MPs are invited and heard, but on the other hand we have one big political affair here known as the "Two Pockets" buying MPs in the National Assembly, there is no reaction. If these are true that two MPs have been bought in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, based on these two votes here, we have a different result of the election of delegates in the House of Peoples. So, corruption that had a direct impact on BiH institutions was thus given the authority of the BiH Prosecutor's Office to conduct an investigation. I have not yet had the opportunity to inform myself from the media whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office has done anything about it, and I would be grateful if they would tell us if, here we are not prejudged, they may not have been bought "two dimwits" I don't know, but do you do anything? And the other thing Mrs. Krišto mentioned here is these protests and the burning of institutions. Unfortunately, my opinion is that this kind of behaviour was given by the BiH Prosecutor's Office the day it refused and did not respond when we had protests here in front of this building, when MPs were held hostage, when foreign citizens with diplomatic status here are limited to movement, and all of these are acts under the BiH Criminal Law. And when the situation here didn't respond, what message did we send to anyone? You're free to fire, tear down institutions, the D.A. won't react.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6894	Time. Thank you very much, Mrs. Pandurević. Discussion, Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6895	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said safe and I see here in this Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office a lot of charts, statistics of various, but I miss something. I'd like to see which of the prosecutors who filed the most charges? Who are the prosecutors who didn't press charges during their work? I see here in Section 3 that we have a total, I think, 460 working days on prosecutor's sick leave – has anyone ever initiated a health check on these prosecutors, can they even perform their duty? We are also witnesses, here I repeat again, pompously announced actions of arrest, search, various others, means the BiH Prosecutor's action from which we have not seen any results. We have nice averages here, for example. I would be interested in what is the average duration of the order, from the initiation of the investigation to the prosecution or rejection of the indictment, especially for the acts of Section II, means organised crime, corruption and especially for the acts in which we have as suspects, people in BiH's political life. Of course, there are some other things that could be discussed a lot. It is certain that there are also problems in the prosecution, the way prosecutors choose themselves, in the way they work, but I believe that there can certainly be much better work of the prosecution if they get rid of the pressure. We have implemented this reform of the judiciary, we see what it is and where it has led us, to mention again, the country among the most corrupt countries in the world, so it's obvious that something is wrong. For this reason, I'd like to ask the chief prosecutor, and let's see this information about the prosecutors individually as to how long it takes, how long does the average time from the initiation of investigation 98 to the prosecution or the rejection of the indictment, who are the prosecutors whose investigations end, not in entity courts, but in municipal courts? So, who are these prosecutors, how many such charges are there? Little to see that part of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6896	Thank you, Mr Bećirović, and especially for this brief discussion. Here are the chief prosecutor, Mr. Goran Salihović and his deputies and prosecutors. I'm calling on the Attorney General to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6897	Dear colleagues, I'm going to try to calm down a little, to embrace all of this that you asked me and try to answer this whole thing. So it was why someone was arrested, why someone didn't arrest themselves, why the results were good like this, why Bramerc wasn't satisfied, why we had good results on the war crimes. Of course, all the dilemmas are open. And it's a good thing I'm here and I'm gonna try to answer these questions. So we have to start from the beginning. Do we have anything better in this country, something stronger than this institution? Do we have anything stronger than you as Parliament, the Council of Ministers? If we have one right now, we're changing. We have meaning the BiH Prosecutor's Office that has enormous jurisdiction. What's the jurisdiction? So we have a war crime and we have a simple 20-year period. A terribly sensitive question, a question that raises the region into a cloud, as it is said. Here we have today the arrest of Naser Orić and the simple region is excited. Seven days ago, we had a protest note from Mr Milanović. Why? Because we started doing our job on war criminals. We also have reactions in Serbia. But right now, let me tell you, we are determined in what the law says, what our people ask of us, all war criminals are the same, all victims are the same. We can't count the victims, it's not right. I've been visiting RTRS, and I've presented that information as much as I have accused other peoples in my term, it's a significant piece of information. We're in charge of corruption, organized crime, terrorism, so these are all segments, trafficking in people in which we simply, we have this Prosecution that we have and that Court. And again, if someone else can do it, let's figure out who's gonna do it. However, I will answer the question whether we are under political influence? Niko one influences me politically. I'm good with half of you that I know, personally and proud to know you, but there's no way anyone's ever asked me anything in the sense of a political racket and I'm never gonna let that happen. So, while I'm here, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is professional. If we change the law, you bring in a political prosecutor, then you have to bring in three prosecutors to defend three peoples and attack three peoples. So we're going into a trap. So here we go from war crimes. For, from 2003 to today, we have had 2,343 cases, and 4.281 people have been charged. In two years, so last year and last year, we've accused almost 1,000 people. We made a record of people being accused this year and last year. We had the best standard, if we're talking about quality now, of all the BiH prosecutors, that standard was 128%, it's about the results of our prosecutors. Last year we had the best quality of all the prosecutions. This is High Council data, not mine, 94%. So, my colleague Rančić said he wasn't very happy with the court's decisions. I'm not satisfied either. It's impossible for us to have so many paroles, fines. We complain, criminal policy is changing in favor of the prosecution, it's in the court because the Court is making decisions. We've got a lot of problems. I did not believe that 99 would have problems in some segments that should support the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In the police, I've got the Zubac case, the man's convicted, the man's running the Agency, it's your job to replace him. I don't know why you're not replacing him. I can't do some stuff because I've been banned from classified information, access to classified information. The other thing is, we've touched the top of judicial corruption. We arrested the judge. There's a charge next week. So, one more thing I'm going to tell you, no war crimes charges have been dropped, 191 charges are confirmed, all charges are confirmed. He's talking about some things that don't exist in quality, that's not true. You know why they say that? Because we started working. It was nice when it wasn't working, everyone's happy and the international community, war criminals, criminals, politicians, everyone, okay. We can, I'll lock up and we'll continue as before. However, you have never adopted the 2003 report. I think it would be your turn to adopt him once, to show your will, to support this prosecution. You see, whoever's against the D.A.'s against the state is if he's holding her back. As for Brammertz's report, I'm not happy with that either. Why? Because the cases stood in The Hague for 4 to 5 years, so they came to BiH again for 4 to 5 years. In these two years since I got here, we've stayed on eight cases and I said we'll finish them by the end of the year. We have a problem right now with four subjects that are dealing with certain segments through protocol, but I think we'll work it out. So that's true, but we need to see it before. I haven't been a prosecutor here since 2003. What were we looking for with these terrorists? So we haven't approved them yet. Of course, if they don't have a job to do, they'll do whatever it takes, but we have in Germany, a German prosecutor with 55 terrorism prosecutors. I think we showed by coming to the papa that we're a safe country, that you should stay in that country, that we should fight for the state, that we can love each other and the Pap and she loves us and all of us. It shows, you know what it was, which were two incidents, was an order to lower the curtains on the windows and get the cars out of the parking lot. Someone picked up the blinds and waved to Papi. That's two incidents. So I guarantee you there is hope here in this country, that we must together and build this country together. I commend this House to all of us. Why? Because I think you will meet the standards towards the EU and that you can meet them. Of course, you need to criticize and fix some things. As far as corruption is concerned, I've been looking for corruption prosecutors and we're short on people. But right now, let me tell you, we're doing corruption, we're doing these things that you're talking about. I can't talk much about cases. You can't charge yourself overnight. You see, we've had certain war crimes cases, from terrorism these months, so we've had to transfer our capacities to those items. The case "Čaušević" goes very quickly, it is in about 70%. The case "Kekerović“ and "Čaušević" indirectly placed 1,100,000 in the budget of BiH. We get commendation from indirect taxation for that. In a way, we simply disciplined those people who do not want to pay those taxes and that is the fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is when we catch that little MP or when we catch that little minister, why not? When I see that there's paper down there, I'll pick it up and throw it in the basket. Should I have let this assistant minister take the bribe, that he was arrested the other day in Tuzla? Of course it's lower level jurisdiction. But I'll also tell you that we did it in two days, marked the money and that, and we'll do everything and we'll bring it all down to the lower levels. We also have reverse cases. We have cases where entities deliver objects because they don't have the capacity, they can't, and we're doing it. One big item we got now from the RS and we're going to do it, or we're doing it a lot, but part of that thing was down there. So, 100 means about us and our determination, we're certainly determined to go into this all, but we can't go against everyone. If you want us to surrender, here's no problem, no problem, but I won't surrender and tell you 90% of my people. So, anyway, I accept both criticism and commendation and all that you say, but I think we can talk this way and ask me what you want. Make sure no one, there's a little bit of that that bothers me with spectacular arrests. Well, you see, we're arresting to make it easier for the prosecution. You want us not to arrest? Here's the problem. We won't arrest anyone. What do we do, here you are said many have been heard these days. Well, they were questioned. I didn't want to arrest them. Do you understand me? So we have to be diplomats too. Regional co-operation, I'll tell you, we have fantastic with colleagues from Croatia and Serbia, we have co-operation with Slovenia, with Montenegro. We've done these things that work. But of course, one spark is enough to make the region work, and that's this war crime. 84% more of us filed charges compared to n 2013, so 57, all the charges are confirmed, all of them. Slicing objects, you can't chop objects if we get away, far more indictees, no talking about pulling objects. You see, it's just that a lot of people didn't want it to start and do it, and even some people in the Court didn't. You know, that judge is the president of the Board of Appeal, that's the top, I don't know what's going on. Now imagine we have the police here, we have the court here, we have the misunderstanding of some international community, some people from the international community, we have all kinds of obstructions. But I must commend one thing, expressly and you as Parliament and the Council of Ministers had an understanding and gave us these additional prosecutors both for terrorism and for war crimes, and I think we will justify that trust. You must believe in the BiH Prosecution. If you don't believe in us I don't know what to believe then here's what we're gonna do, here's what we're gonna do if there's no trust. We have lower levels, it's very difficult, let's say, in a small municipality to judge one of the corruption commissioners from both the prosecutor and the judge. You want to do that? That's it, I thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6898	Thank you, Mr. Salihović. Dear colleagues, we have concluded the debate. I would ask Mr. Rančić to give up this replica, if at all. I'm asking you to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6899	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6900	You insist, don't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6901	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6902	All right, you insist, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6903	Thank you very much. 101 So the Honorable Prosecutor spoke to me, didn't mention me, but he said I was talking about spectacular arrests. I wasn't talking about it, but then he said what we're going to arrest to get criminal charges, etc. In last session, I spoke of spectacular arrests in the RS and violations of human rights. He gets arrested when the law prescribes it and when there are... conditions, and not to make an application or not to, not to get arrested, so she wrote the application, so a man let himself go and it waited for six months or 12 months, etc. So, arrests under the law, and respecting human rights and freedoms. Now I don't know if it was me, but he was looking at me so I couldn't stay in debt. That's my neighbor, so I had to answer him, and the chairman won't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6904	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you once again to the chief prosecutor and it is necessary to come to these discussions in Parliament and to communicate with Parliament, many things will be made indisputable in that kind of communication and I am glad that today was the case. We're going to the 12th agenda, that's Ad. 12. Information from the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency on the Prices of Mobile Operators in BiH (Realisation of Mladen Bosić's Initiative) The initiative was delivered in the procedure on 16 April 2015, the initiative was adopted at the 12th session of the House since 28/05/2015, and the competent Commission for Transport and Communications is responsible for delivering a Opinion on the Information of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency. The Commission submitted its opinion on the Information on 08.06.2015 and proposed the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives finds that BiH citizens pay the highest price for mobile operators' services in the region, which has a significant impact on the overall economic and social status and economic development of BiH. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications to ensure within 90 days, in accordance with the legal rules, that the prices of mobile operators in BiH are harmonised with the prices of operators in the region. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mladen Bosić, deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6906	Well, first of all, I'd like to express my regret that this point is so late when we're all tired and there won't even be a real debate, I see it by the two RAC ladies sitting here all day waiting for this agenda to open up, and I'll try to be brief, I'll actually be brief. So there is no dilemma that we are paying, or the citizens of BiH in both entities are paying for the most expensive mobile phone and the question here is why is that. So the basic question is why is mobile telephony and impulse and conversation in BiH more expensive than in Serbia, Croatia, Italy, Denmark and any other country? There are two ways to regulate prices. One is the market and the other 102 is the state. In this case, none of those two ways have done their job. I think it's our duty to protect citizens in this case from taking money from their pockets. I am grateful to the Commission, which has unanimously supported this initiative and made a proposal for a conclusion with which I am absolutely agreed with one add-on to determine these conclusions and a request for RAC to give the report to this House of Parliament, after three months, where it has come and what it has done, to tell us what the problems are and whether there have been problems in carrying out this task that has been defined, i.e. in reducing the price in the conversation with mobile operators. There is no market here, there are three national, old national operators who define prices themselves, RAC approves of such prices, these are smart people. I know they're smart people because I've worked with these people, they know how to hide that we pay the most expensive prices through various combinations, different packages, and it's very hard to trace all that. I'll tell you what's going on. We took a package of about 8.5 euros in VIP Croatia, M-tel BiH, MTS Serbia, Eronet BiH, Tele 2 Croatia and BHTE and our three operators hold very similar prices and very similar packages. Obviously, there doesn't have to be a deal, there may be a silent agreement. And you have M-tel calls in the network that make up over 80% of the total calls are calls in the network, gives 60 minutes for the 8.5-euro package, Eronet gives 80 minutes, BHT gives 50 minutes. So ours is about 50 to 80 minutes away. And now you see these others: MTS Serbia 2,500 minutes for the same price of 8.5 euros, VIP Net Croatia unlimited talks in its network, Tele 2 Croatia 150 minutes, which is again twice as much conversation as our most expensive operator. And not to compare it further, it's all in such a sense and there's no dilemma, I don't think anyone can argue that we have as the Parliamentary Assembly who's in charge of controlling the telecom regulators that we're tasked with doing something about this. This is not against telecom operators who, by the way, made and founded smaller operators to fake how the market developed here if there were more than 6 operators. This is against the Regulatory Agency who didn't do her job. The regulatory agency had to limit and force operators to cut prices, unless it would introduce a new operator on the entire BiH territory and a world-renowned one that would take off their automatic prices as it was in Serbia. But it's their job, it's professional people, I know they know their jobs, and that's why I'm appealing to you, or I'm sure you'll support this initiative that I'm convinced will come upon the support of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6907	Thank you. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative, submitted at the 11th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13th May 2015, which reads: "Article 8. I present the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with an initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015." The initiative was submitted on 13 May 2015, the House College appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights as responsible for considering the initiative. The competent Commission, 103 of the Initiative delivered its opinion on 09.06.2015, the initiative was not adopted by the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6909	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. As one of the opposition MPs, we often strongly criticise the most frequently for the reason why there are no resolute ministers and the Council of Ministers, but we should have strength and praise, when we have a reverse situation sometimes. So I'm taking the opportunity to express my satisfaction that at this point in the agenda, the Secretary of Staff is present here today, because this issue is primarily in the department of human rights's portfolio. What dom Chairman Džaferović was talking about, so exactly yesterday, the Human Rights Commission, the Joint Commission discussed and there were 5 votes for, no vote against and 4 votes abstentioned. However, given the complicated decision-making system in Parliament and in committees, even after such a vote, without any vote against, we have found that the initiative has not received the necessary support within the Commission for Human Rights. I want to say that in BiH no matter what part of this country we are talking about, two things are absolutely necessary, that is justice and business. This initiative is primarily about work, that is, economics. We often neglect one thing, and that is the huge economic potential that we have in the Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora and completely unwarranted, we minimize the importance of our diaspora. Most of us have had numerous opportunities abroad to talk to people across Europe and the world about what is the position, what is the status and link of the diaspora to the country of origin. And we've all had a chance to hear, that it's not even on a fairly satisfactory level. I think it's about time that this situation changed. To take this example, which is not burdened with politics or the past or anything else, we show that we are ready to strengthen the bh economy first of all. When I say that, I would like to remind all my colleagues and colleagues here in Parliament that there is such a law in all the countries in the region and almost all the countries of Europe. So our neighbours, the countries of the region, have all recognised first and foremost the developmental opportunity to pass a quality law that would improve this area and bring certain benefits, first and foremost to the economy. I think that by law like this, we can contribute a lot of BiH, first of all, to connect businesses from abroad to the country of origin, then make one address book of businesses abroad, that with the help of these people, and we all know that they are willing to help, maybe open up some new markets for some BiH companies and give one boost to the BiH economy in various other ways. We therefore need laws here in the BiH Parliament that strengthen the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy. Unfortunately, we have the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have a parliamentary majority that has hardly proposed anything in these seven months, so that this latest order from the opposition, if it had not had some proposals, is the real question of what would we be doing here at Parliament's meetings in the first place. Therefore, without what should already be done by the Council of Ministers, it would be good to support at least the quality proposals coming from the opposition in order to make a certain step. Of course, this initiative and the possible adoption of such a law is not just about business co-operation. It also relates to co-operation in the field of science. Does anyone in BiH today have data on how many BiH-origin scientists work in certain countries, whether they are linked to BiH's scientific institutions. Then, a particular field that such a law could regulate is 104 on the plan of sport co-operation. No state has such an unorganised approach, such as BiH. So we have a situation where we have a number of talents, and now I'm talking about sports around the world, that nobody cares about them, that the state doesn't follow them in any way, and that we're not talking about using it to connect them, to import them into national teams. Then the question of cultural co-operation, the question of educational co-operation, etc. There are countless reasons why it is necessary for Parliament to adopt one such initiative today, to task the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare such a bill within a perfectly decent timeframe by the end of this year. I've been talking to these people, for a while I've been thinking about offering myself such a law, but here most of the time there's controversy of the type and the remarks of the type, well, it's overcomplicated matter, it doesn't need to be proposed by an MP or a club, etc. I respect all these arguments, let us today find what is our common denominator, to support one such initiative, and to propose to the Council of Ministers the best possible law, I repeat, by example to other countries. It wouldn't be good if this time too, if we had some things to do with neighboring countries and they weren't tied to this country. Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and all others abroad want BiH, from which they have come to these countries, to take care of them. We can pass such a law that will help these people, and above all help BiH. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6910	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6911	I thank the chairman. First of all, I should point out that the SBB Club will support this initiative in fact, and at the beginning I think it is particularly necessary to stress, Mr Bećirović pointed out this, and I think we need to rediscover it. We therefore heard remarks when the opposition submitted drafts of the law, relatively limited nature, that it should not be done by individual MPs, but should allow the Council of Ministers to do so. And I particularly welcome, therefore, the way that Mr. Bećirović did. First of all, it's a highly complicated, extensive matter, and it's much better to leave this to an institution that has all the resources at its disposal, so first of all we have the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I also thank the Minister for being here, especially for this point. And finally, we have complete resources, a complete council of ministers who can benefit from other resources, including the BiH Presidency in particular, not to say the Foreign Ministry, which through the DKP network can receive additional information from our emigrants what should be incorporated into the law. So this is a really responsible approach and there's really nothing to say against the process itself, but I also welcome it. I also want to talk about this from the aspect of the former BiH ambassador to Australia, so the country where more than 50,000 of our emigrants live, absolutely all nationalities. And I have been reporting to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees on this issue, the ethnic picture of our emigrants in Australia is almost identical to the ethnic picture of BiH. So you have a percentage of the number of emigrants in Australia that you have citizens in BiH, when it comes to different nationalities, i.e. members of others. And all these emigrants, they need to come to the BiH Embassy for a passport. They all have common interests when it comes to the exercise of their rights in BiH. So, these are people who still have property in BiH in most cases, and they are interested in achieving all their rights in BiH, regardless of ethnicity, and unfortunately they all face the same problems. Not unfortunately, everyone faces it, but unfortunately these problems are so many and the diaspora law would definitely solve it in many ways. He wouldn't solve all the problems, he wouldn't solve the distance problems, etc. from BiH to these distant countries, but let's not forget that we have close to a million people out there. So I don't think it's necessary to repeat, but I think it's definitely enough to draw in one sentence, which we brains have out there. So we have people at the most prestigious universities, we have the most prestigious athletes out of BiH and we have really successful business people and one such law would help all of them. The other thing, because this is done in a way that is quality and should not really be controversial is, so give the Council of Ministers a proposal, or a request to make one such law, and in the Council of Ministers there are members of all three constituent peoples, unfortunately not the rest, as the Council of Ministers says, but it is again a matter of this parliamentary majority that has not chosen anyone from the order of the others in the Council of Ministers. In any case, at least when they are members of the constituent peoples, they are all in the Council of Ministers and all will give the opportunity to give their opinion on it. After all, the bill will again come to this Parliament which decides in the way it decides, not to talk about entity voting, and then ethnically in the House of Peoples, etc. So it really shouldn't be a controversial initiative. Also, when it comes to other countries in the region, so you see, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia have such laws. The Republic of Serbia eventually has even the Ministry of Diaspora. The Law in the Republic of Serbia also treats all their emigrants equally, regardless of what ethnicity they are and the Republic of Serbia benefits from all these expatriates and has increased that benefit, thanks to the Law and the Ministry. I am aware that there is probably no political will in BiH to establish a diaspora ministry, although a country that has such a large percentage of its citizens beyond its borders should have such a ministry. But unless there's a political will for such a thing, why not have a law that treats the most fundamental human issues. I mean, I am convinced that people from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees would do this in one large way, especially because in this previous duty, I have had the opportunity to learn about the fact that exactly the Ministry of Human Rights of Refugees, in all the reports on the state of BiH's emigration, is the report that is annual issue and which is really useful for both BiH institutions and our citizens outside our borders, in all these reports, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees stresses how necessary the law on diaspora is and how necessary it is, therefore, the adoption of such a law. So, I would really like to appeal to, now I am speaking again means the most from the experience of BiH ambassadors in a country that has 50,000 emigrants, whose ethnic picture fully depicts BiH's ethnic picture, that all of them, without any difference when it comes to that ethnicity, are all of them in need of this law, and it is almost exclusively to address their most basic human, elemental needs. So there's nothing there that can't be defined by that law, which would be more favoured by one ethnic group in relation to the other, etc. So that's something that's in the interest of all BiH citizens. We all have meaning, this diaspora, it is a million citizens of BiH and I really appeal to everyone to support this law, I say from this perspective that has really shown me how much it is necessary for our citizens in all countries where we have, not just a large diaspora, but any diaspora, and we know it in most countries in the world. Thank you. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6912	Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly The proposal for a decision was agreed at yesterday's session of the Joint College, and on the basis of the Commission's proposal for external affairs of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy and Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples. The motion for a decision has been made. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 15th agenda, Ad. 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer: College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6915	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Club of the SBB fully supports the formation of this Joint Commission as soon as possible, especially since it is one of the most important joint committees. However, we cannot help but notice something that we already pointed out at the session, when this was the first time on the agenda. So, this proposal for a decision that you provided us is identical to the motion for a decision that you delivered to us on 03.03 this year and, if you remember, I had then had a business intervention that I pointed out to us, given that on 03.03 you provided us with a proposal for a decision on six joint committees, that in three of those six committees, no respected Article 52. A Rules of Procedure which says, as you yourself said at the time when you read the Proposal for a Decision, I read from the minutes, with 2/3 members elected from the territory of the Federation and 1/3 from the territory of the RS, Article 52. Rules of Procedure. And then, of course, I had a business intervention, I pointed to Article 52. You've done your consultations, you've returned, you've corrected your mistakes. Now, to quote: "So if no one is answering for a word, let me merely conclude from the chairman's post that there is a legitimate objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure concerning the entity structure of committees. And we will today, during this session, do a session of the Colleges in an extended composition, try to correct what we have to do with the House of Representatives, because we have proposed by party and it is possible to see what the reasons are. And that business injury will be corrected. So, it can't be adopted with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only with full respect for the Poslvonik." This is what you told Mr. Džaferović, therefore, on page 24. The minutes at the session, 8th session of the House of Representatives, held on 11 March 2015. And now you have delivered us a Decision containing the same names, which again contains seven MPs, or seven members of the Federation Parliamentary Assembly and five members from the RS entities. And to be perfectly clear, I, when I pointed out this, at a session of March 11th, I then pointed out that it was a mistake in three of the six proposals and that in one case it was to the harm of the Federation, in another case to the harm of the RS. So, to be absolutely clear, neither to me nor to other members of the SBB Club, it absolutely bothers the Joint Commission to be seven from the Federation and five from the RS, instead of eight from the Federation and four from the RS, but what bothers us is that it violates Article 52. Rules of Procedure. And I think it is really necessary to insist on the consistent implementation of the Rules of Procedure, especially that I am the Rules of Procedure. And it is especially necessary to do so because the Rules of Procedure are not at all difficult to amend. So this is not the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that are subject to adoption or amendments and additions in both Houses. The Rules of Procedure shall make clear the procedure for its amendment. You have a parliamentary majority, at least I think, still, you don't know it from day to day, but in any case, well maybe this is something you should have done then before these problems started to arise, but in any case, you shouldn't, here... open, so if there's a need to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, let's do that. But let's please do 108 in a way that fully respects the Rules of Procedure. Because I am now saying again, the Rules of Procedure clearly state that both the duties of the College and the Chairman of the House are consistent with the application of this Rules of Procedure. And that is for a reason, it is for the reason that we have one predictability in the work, that we can rely on the decisions of the College and the decisions of the Chairman when it comes to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and not on the situation, Mr Sarajlić, you know that you can apply, I have not seen you for these fourteen sessions that you have applied, but there is a button, so if you want to speak, you can apply. Anyway, uh, not to get us into a situation where the Chairman of the House says that a business injury will be corrected. So, it can't be adopted with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only with the full respect of the Rules of Procedure, so that two and a half months later, it peddles exactly the same decision. That's really not right. I'm aware of what you said, you want to take responsibility off yourself, but this isn't the way to do it. I think it is much better then to propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, to adopt and say you may have a parliamentary council, if not, you can talk to us to help you with this, but let's please consistently apply the Rules of Procedure. And not that when we have a business intervention, I've already pointed out that it's called harassment. That's really not right. And what's especially wrong, and that concerns the entire House, is if we have an unconsistent application. Therefore, it does not really matter whether it is 7:5 or 8-4, it is important that this House, namely that this Parliament, given that it is a joint committee, the sooner it gets to the Joint Committee on Oversight of the work of the OSCE, we absolutely do not need to discuss at all how important this committee is, and we should have it six months ago, and not that we are still talking about it in June of the month, especially as the time of the annual holidays approaches, do not come in September that we do not have this Commission formed and functional. So it absolutely doesn't matter if it's 7:5 or it's 8:4, but please, do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not to completely ignore what you said two and a half months ago and now you're offering us this decision, as if you didn't say it, as if the Rules of Procedure were not absolutely, I think the Rules of Procedure are rather precise, but in this provision it can't be more precise. I am indeed calling on the College to find a solution to this situation, even if it is necessary to bring amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. After all, the Rules of Procedure are so liberal about this, it even allows you to bring in the most ordinary supplement that says this principle will be ignored only in this case. So there's no problem at all, so adopt that. You can adopt that now and then immediately after that form this Commission, but please do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not pretend that this member does not exist. So you can formally do anything in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6916	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote in about 10 minutes, say. Is it 10 minutes enough for you or are we going to do it right now? So, five minutes, stay in the O.R., this is the consultation, in five minutes we'll vote. I'm asking the MPs to come into the O.R. We keep working, we're going to the voting process. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6918	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6919	No, it's all closed, no business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6920	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6921	The debate is closed, we vote, no business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6922	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6923	Voting, you have no right to business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6924	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6925	Well, I don't know, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6926	... Mr. Džaferović,... [[no microphone turned on]] I'm right about my business.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6927	Here, tell me what you've got, business intervention, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6928	Don't fight for what's the elemental thing in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in accordance with Article 76. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are now in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I'll explain how. Article 7(2) states that - MPs or MPs have the right, and emphasises the Rules of Procedure, and the duty to attend the House session and to engage during that House session to find a solution, and what is already in Poslovnik. Article 7(4) says - an MP who is prevented from attending the House session or who has to leave the House session for the duration of its stay informs the Chairman of the House and presents the reasons for his absence. What I'm talking about you are not, Mr. Chairman, at all guilty, but we can come to a position that is very dangerous for this House. By the 13th time, we were informed by the SNSD's MPs this morning, and by my judgment, it is extremely unfair, because you are the chairman. That reason was this morning. As far as we can see, that reason remains tonight at the vote, and the SNSD MPs are here to vote. 110 I think that interpreting Article 7 of Section 2 and Article 4 is about the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure. The other thing is the unmarked precedent in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in any parliament, because you can't consume anywhere, is it, your duties and then you come to vote. Third thing, in case this business intervention of mine is not respected, I think we're introducing a new, so far unknown, according to my court, dangerous practice in this House, which is that MPs past the Rules of Procedure can come to the agenda, go shopping on vacation and appear at the vote in the evening. If it stays that way, I'm afraid that at the next sessions we won't be left here without a quorum. So I suggest that you do not really break this over your knees, this is a serious question, our Rules of Procedure is clear, I invite you to - take a 15-minute break, call the College and interpret this Rules of Procedure, because otherwise you legalise the possibility for all MPs to come to the agenda in the future, to leave afterwards and come to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6929	Please be nice, the representative presented a business intervention. It is disputed whether it can be done after the session is concluded, when the vote is approached, but in order not to produce further discussions and complications I have decided to admit it and I think it is the simplest and easiest. So listen to the answer. So the answer of the College is, therefore, my answer and the two of us deputies, that in this case no violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure you have called upon and we will now approach the voting process. As for the absence of MPs from Parliament, SNSD MPs, I have spoken of it several times and I have said where I think the exit is, but today is not the topic. Prepare for the vote, we vote on the 1st item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes of the 12th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. 34 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I understand we've adopted a record from the 12th session of the House of Representatives. We are going to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, (second reading). First we vote on the amendment of MP Nikola Lovrinović, which was tabled at the plenary stage. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, 14 against, 4 abstentions. The amendment was not received, therefore, by general support, so it was not adopted. We are now voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendment contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. Prepare to vote. 111 vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDS Club, we will repeat this vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. 25 for, 10 against, as far as I could see, there are no abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity. So this law wasn't passed in the first round. We have to go to the second round. Is it later? Afterwards, the alignment later. Let's go to point 4. – Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the BiH Civil Aviation Liaison Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the Joint Commission Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, no problem, four abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the alignment of the text of the Civil Aviation Liaison Act. Let's go to point 5. – Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Consensus, is it later? Later. We are going to item 6 of the agenda – Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014. We vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SBBBiH Club MPs, which reads: – The Council of Ministers is tasked with providing, within 30 days, precise answers to all remarks by the Director of the Energy Community Secretariat, Mr Janez Kopač, which are given at the presentation on the subject: "The State of Integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the EU in the field of energy", held in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which concerns the lack of the Law on Gas, the lack of energy strategy and other commitments under the European Energy Community's views. 112 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 7 against, 6 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Is it later? Later, okay. We are voting on the proposal for a recommendation from MEP Jasmin Emirć, which reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly points to the importance and urgency that the Government and Parliament of the Federation of BiH should, as soon as possible, carry out the selection procedure for members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, which has expired its mandate, and the nomination of delivery to the Council of Ministers for appointment in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 6 against, 6 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. It's later, isn't it? Get back to work later. We're voting on adopting the report now. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 11 against, 7 abstentions, there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity around the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014. Agreeing? Later, okay. We are going to item 7 of the agenda – Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2014. We're voting on receiving knowledge of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 32 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've been informed of this report. We're going to point 8. – Report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2014, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nikola Lovrinović, which reads: – The BiH Federation Parliament is suggested to review once again the Agency's objections to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parent Books "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH", number 22/14, or the possibility to install them. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 11 for, 7 against, 17 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. 113 Consensus later, right? Later. We vote now on the adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted a report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2014. We move to item 9 of the agenda – Annual report on the results of the activities of the Human Rights Institution of BiH and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2014. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić, which reads: – The Council of Ministers is obliged to, in co-operation with the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, and on the basis of earlier recommendations and experiences in work, develop a proposal for measures to improve the human rights situation and prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within 90 days. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no objection, seven abstentions, enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil – the report of the Independent Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH will in the future contain the tax-based bodies that have not, within the prescribed time-limit, provided a response to the request of the Ombudsman for human rights, as well as information on whether a criminal (infringing) procedure has been initiated against those bodies which have been notified by the Ombudsman, or an independent human rights institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, no problem, five abstentions, enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We vote now on the adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, 12 against, 10 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. _________(?) ... We can right now... [[no microphone turned on]] 114
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6934	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6935	Yes, and now we need the information of the RAC to be informed. Prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6937	... We can't take it, we can... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6938	Is there... information or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6939	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-06-10-0.u6940	All right, please, let's move on with the point, with... item 13 of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović, submitted at the 11th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13.05.2015, which reads: "Article 8. I present the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015." We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24. for, 6 against, 4 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. 116 Agreeing later. Let's go to point 14. – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted a Decision appointing members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. And we're going to point 15. – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer: College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 14 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have reached a decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Agency. Dear ladies and gentlemen, just a moment, please remain for half a minute, closing the 13th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 30 June 2015. The month of Ramadan begins next week. To all Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I congratulate Ramazan on the words Ramazan Šerif Olsun Olsun. Live and healthy, I'll see you on June 30th. Thank you. Session completed at 7:45.
