ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5607	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. It's time to go to work. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 9th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media, were invited to this session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified only by Mr Željko Komšić. I was told directly that today he was objectively prevented from attending a meeting of the House of Representatives, other MPs did not justify it. We currently have 37 agents in the O.R., according to the service records. So we have conditions for full work and decision-making. So, the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. In preparation for this session, the meetings of our committees, the Constitutional Commission, the Commission for Transport and Communications, the Commission for Foreign Affairs, were held. The committee sessions were held neatly and the commissions finished their part of the job. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to point out the following to the agenda is added point 6. – Proposal for a decision on the amount of RTTV tax, Proposer of the Transport and Communications Commission from 23.03.2015. And point 3 is removed from the agenda. – Proposal for a law supplementing the election law, Proposer Damir Arnaut, Law of 23.02.2015, first reading. This item was taken down by the College's decision in the extended composition at yesterday's session, and the deadline for delivering Opinions of the Constitutional Legal Commission was extended by 20 days. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5608	I thank the chairman. I think everyone's already got the material. Therefore, the proposal to include the agenda item on the basis of Article 71(1). Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and in accordance with Article 183. Rules of Procedure, we propose a new agenda item for today's session – a proposal for a conclusion on the request of the BiH presidency to inform the House about issues related to the proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro. As my time is limited, I will ask you to look at the text of the proposed conclusion and explanations, where in detail 2 is explained the business base, as well as the need to adopt that conclusion. It would require the Presidency to deliver their views to this House on the proposal for a state-level border agreement between BiH and Montenegro, as well as the text of the Pre-Agreement Agreement, so I will focus on explaining the need to include this point. First of all, I am obliged to meet the House that this is already the fourth attempt to adopt this conclusion in a less similar form. At last session of the Constitutional Commission, which discussed the public debate on Sutorina, counterpart Prodanović suggested that the Commission adopt a conclusion suggesting that the House ask the BiH presidency for the text of the proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro. The chairman of the Commission, Mr Komšić, was of the view that one directly elected authority cannot tell the other elected body what to do. Before anyone had a chance to intervene, the debate on this point was closed. The conclusion was put to the vote and was brought down by the votes of DF, SDA and SDS. That the Rules of Procedure on the contrary allow, and even clearly foresees that the House may request the views of the Bureau's reports, I therefore tried to point out at the last session of the Constitutional Commission as part of the agenda agenda on the appointment of the Commission's thematic session on Sutorina. Mrs Pandurević, who chaired the session as the first deputy, argued that the conclusion leading in that direction was not the subject of the agenda and concluded the debate. So the Commission should now hold a thematic session, discuss it with experts on this issue, submit a report to the House on this issue, without having access to the proposal for a contract which is subject to the issue, nor does it know about the views of the Presidency, whose direct jurisdiction this is. So we tried to put that back on the agenda on yesterday's Expanded College and it was re-refused. So please, why all the resistance? What is the issue of obtaining the presidency's position on the issue of BiH's foreign policy and the BiH International Treaty, two responsibilities explicitly assigned to the Presidency by the BiH Constitution? No matter what any of us individually thought about the Sutorina Resolution itself, whether it should be adopted or not, it is evident that BiH has an open foreign-political issue, not to say the problem, because of this Resolution, and foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH presidency. It is quite unclear, therefore, why the Presidency then does not state its position on this issue, and it is unacceptable that this House conducts discussions of this kind without the Presidency's position, without the text of the Treaty, and even refuses to ask the Bureau to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5609	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5610	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Since here we have now had the opportunity to hear that fellow Arnaut has suggested that today a new item of the agenda be put in place, I must say that we at the SDP Club have discussed this too, and our proposal is with certain suggestions and corrections, that the SDP Club supports this SBB proposal to put this on the agenda today and make these conclusions known. 3 So in our court there is no need to run away from any debate on this subject. We have already discussed this several times in Parliament, had a public debate, scheduled a new public debate, although at the last session we said that these new public debates cannot bring qualitatively anything new, because only opponents appear, but also advocates of this idea both in the country and abroad. No matter what experts get together and possibly at this new public debate, the final decision must be made and taken over by the BiH authorities. So we suggest that we really accept this proposal, that today we enter into the agenda, of course, the fact that we are against the part of the reasoning that has been delivered here, where there is said to be uncertainty and uncertainty about this resolution. I will be very precise and clear, it is not about any uncertainty, it is about the strong arguments of the BiH state, which any other state would use, if there were. So, but I'm not going to get into the essence of that story right now, I'm not running away from that debate at all, and that's why we support and we think there's a justification for this SBB proposal to get this into the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5611	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5612	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. So I suggest you leave out of the agenda this time, two points, therefore, the last points relating to ratification of the agreement, as you get in the agenda. And here I find an opportunity in Article 191. The Rules of Procedure and I remind us, once again, of one conclusion which we have made on my proposal, that when it comes to ratifying the agreement concerning the financial responsibilities of any level of the BiH authorities, they remain for ratification after we have received information from the Council of Ministers, or one that keeps a certain record, at which point we are in a state, so how much of this responsibility, how many of these agreements are alive that are yet to be implemented. Since we didn't get it until today, so last time I suggested it on the proposal I don't know, the same agreement, so maybe I was a little bit of an MP, a colleague, misunderstood, that I was against a specific agreement. Dale, I'm not against it this time either, because I'm not going to measure any agreement, I'm asking us to respect ourselves, so what we've brought, and in some ways that conclusion complements me, so this Rules of Procedure and regulates that question, until we get at least that information, so that we can work. All I'm talking about is agreements relating to financial responsibilities. Namely, here's just one depression, maybe not too much about this, but I remember our discussions, let's say, about white bread and the savings that we've been meaning to get, and we've got to do it before us, for example. Today, the loan agreement, which weighs 37m euros, is called, therefore, a business ambience development policy loan. Well, look at what it's been given for. So here we just don't even know what we're in charge of, and we're getting into new stories. So, it would be nice, if we were already going to measure the decision on the contents of these documents, that those who offer us these agreements, and they told us themselves about this subject, let's say for the information we ask the Ministry of Finance, so that they deliver us one shorter information for the MPs, along with these agreements, that we know what 4 are really about, because here, let's say, twenty pages that you're really supposed to be experts, how recently there's been a debate here, to see what this is all about. So here's my proposal for these two points to be left out of the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5613	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5614	So I had no intention of reporting, but really after this proposal by Mr. Lovrinović, I must say it is unacceptable to remove these agenda points, especially point 14. which refers to the Water Management Project of the općtina of Gradačac. It is about the usual contracts that come here before the BiH Parliament and is neither the first nor the last case and it is unacceptable to break this issue now on the citizens of the općtina of Gradačac. It's about a project that should benefit directly from 3,500 households in the municipality, not to mention other important things, and it's very important for this to be on the agenda today and ratified. Therefore, and if possible, I call on my colleague Lovrinović to respect the demands not, not us MPs, but above all, the local community who is very interested in today's House of Representatives giving consent to the ratification of such a contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5615	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5616	So, last time and yesterday, I was trying on a college in an extended composition to suggest the same thing I'm proposing to you. So, yesterday I'm here in a decent debate asked to be flexible. So come on, gentlemen, what does that mean? So, we have reached a conclusion, so I want to, my intention was then when I proposed that conclusion, that maybe the chance to make a new start to this Parliament's work, because I was the first time in it and it seemed to me, first of all, that it seemed to me that I was here for the first time, that there were things in front of me, then remember there were 10-15 such agreements, that the question is how, because we decide, we raise our hands on it. Well, I'd still like to know a little more about it, so I know how many such agreements have been made so far, by whom they've been made, who's guilty, if they're respected, what if they're not respected, who's the one who's been doing the damage that's coming on the trail of those agreements. So my intention was pure, so correct in terms of preservation of dignity and this House and what we do and raise our hands. I don't know if anyone here in this House, especially you who are formerly called, knows how difficult these agreements are right now, when it comes to BiH, how many of them have been ratified in this House. I, well, it was her intention, and now don't do me, so last time you brought me to the story of Tuzla, now you're going to tell me about Gradačac, the next time I don't know, some other community, so it doesn't make five sense. Then I'd rather suggest we draw a conclusion, or suggest you. I can't sort it out, because I was his proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5617	Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5618	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome everyone who's following today's session. I just wanted to add, in connection with the proposal of the esteemed representative, Damir Arnaut, that I, or remind myself, had submitted the amendment, that we had not spoken of it. I have tabled an amendment to the Sutorina Resolution, with which the issue extends or transposes to the overall border treaty with Montenegro. I had it in my hands by accident, too bad it wasn't the others, and I expect it, I mean, I'm going to say, I'm going to support every conversation about it. It is not just a focus on Sutorina, but on a very important contract and the first one in a series that follows, which will be, since we still do not have within the former Yugoslavia regulated these issues. So, I support this to be said, whether to pass on, to actually refer the request to the Presidency. I think it would be good if we didn't, if we knew about it. But I couldn't agree more than a question of Sutorina, what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5619	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to focus on the proposals for the new agenda. I don't think we should be having a debate over certain proposals that are highlighted, we'll be obvious when we vote. So I'd like to ask you, if we had that in mind. Mr. Staša Košarac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5620	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I would like to welcome you. In accordance with Article 71(1), Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we propose to consider and adopt a new item of the 9th session of the House of Representatives, which reads – Decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović, from the post of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. At the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th session of the SNSD MPs, as well as at the first emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the SNSD proposed a new item of the agenda, which reads – a decision on the resolution of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Speaker's House of Representatives, i.e. a member of the House of Representatives. The current parliamentary majority did not allow this item to be held on the agenda of the session at previous sessions. The public in BiH, and particularly in RS, is very interested in the 6th issue, which is also witnessed by the open letter concerning the "Džaferović case", which was jointly referred to by the Republic of the Family of the Tragedy and the Dead and Missing Citizens of the RS, Veterans of the RS, the Federal Association of Military Disabilities of the RS, the Alliance of the RS Campers, the Association of Women of the Victims of the War of the RS, as well as several dozen local associations of the defence country war. Turning this point into the agenda of the session is necessary because of the existence of serious accusations expressed through extensive documentation provided by former Federation Vice-President Mirsad Kebo on several occasions by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The documentation provided suggests that there is a serious suspicion that Mr. Džaferović did not prevent, report, or later prosecute war crimes against Srbin in BiH. Article 27 of Rule 1(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given everything that the public has been informed about lately, and concerns the immediate chairman of this House, I believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer be the chairman of the House of Representatives, i.e. he cannot represent the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament. The SNSD MPs' club will insist on these demands and democratic right not to attend the sittings Mr. Džaferović is chairing and participating in the work of the College. We will continue to insist on Mr Džaferović's responsibilities deeply convinced that this is the best way to represent the interests of those who chose us, as the interests of all RS citizens. In view of the above, I ask my fellow Members to support our initiative and that this particular agenda be held at today's session and that we adopt a decision on Mr Džaferović's resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5621	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. We had all three of these points yesterday at the Expansive College, none of them got the support of the extended college, but here, they were repeated at today's session, and I'm obliged to put them to the vote. Prepare to vote, we vote on Mr. Damir Arnaut's advance, to include this point that he has proposed. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 14 votes against, with a sufficient entity majority, this item of the agenda was adopted. And this is going to be the 13th point of the agenda, and the others are moving. Let's go to Mr. Nikola Lovrinović's proposal to get off the agenda of these two agreements. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With five votes for, 27 votes against, four abstentions, so there's no general majority. This proposal has not been adopted. 7 And prepare yourselves for the vote of Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Five votes to, 29 against, two abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted either. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that today's session is agenda: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No 01-02-1-3/15, of 26.02.2015. (first reading); 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, which was submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11.02.2015, reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Challenge and Expansion of National, Religious, Race and Other Forms of Hate in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. Act No 01-50-1 253/15, of 11.02.2015; 5. Proposal for a decision on the amount of RTTV tax, Proposer: Commission for Transport and Communications, No: 01/5-29-1247/14, of 23.03.2015; 6. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, Proposer: Joint College of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-397/15, of 17.03.2015; 7. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02- 34-1-401/15, of 17.03.2015; 8. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-400/15, since 17.03.2015; 9. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses, issue: 01,02-34-1-399/15, of 17.03.2015; 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-398/15, since 17.03.2015; 8 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch Members in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-402/15, of 17.03.2015; 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-404/15, of 17.03.2015; 13. Proposal for a conclusion on a request from the BiH presidency to inform the House of questions concerning the proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro, issue: 01-50-1-429/15 of 25/03/2015, 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Delivery for the Development Policy of the Business Ambience) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-362/15, dated 10.03.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Balakac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-377/15, from 13.03.2015. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. We're discussing point one now, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5624	I thank the chairman. My question was building a border crossing in Gradišca. I have to say, I'm shocked by the answer I got. Although here is the Croatian Prime Minister who announced a week ago that there is nothing from the bridge on the Sava and said that it is the priority of Banja Luka and not Croatia and that, if we want a bridge on the Sava, then we must make a concession on unresolved border issues between BiH and Croatia. I see from the answer that the Council of Ministers in its technical mandate in January decided to use another 15 million marks to build the second phase of the border crossing. So when you take and calculate how much it will cost us a border crossing that doesn't lead anywhere, or leads to the Sava, you see that that's how much it cost us together three border crossings that have been built, any three, take, say, Raču and so on, and that border crossing that really meets all the standards. I must say that this is the thing that we really expect from the future Council of Ministers, we really expect to stop this kind of spending of money, and here at the very least we can talk about unconscious treatment and harm, in which case the budget of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5625	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5626	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I warmly welcome you all. Of course, I am pleased with the answer I received from the Ministry of Civil Affairs given the frameworks in which they can act when it comes to the education system. My goal was to warn us here in the hall of serious consequences that BiH will have in the coming years because of the collapse of the education system and to invite all of us if we have the opportunity and the desire to act to try to stop the further erosion of the education system in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5627	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5628	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, I have received an answer that I am naturally satisfied with in principle, but in particular I would ask that this answer be extended, when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or the Council of Ministers, which refers to Mission FVO from Dublin, which, among other things, determined the situation in the case of entities subject to observation by this Commission, so I would therefore ask that delivery be stated to me, and that here it is said that the entities already have not been delivered that have been found. Given the facts that have been established, I would ask that the answer be extended and that my deliveries are located which have been established in that control, that I do not explain all the width of this response, I would ask that these details, therefore, be found in the control of Farm Spomenka Pešić 10 Bosansko Grahovo, Farma "Okic" Tomislav City and Farmland Nova Topola, Republika Srpska. So I ask you to deliver it to me, I repeat again, the findings that were found during that control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5629	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5630	Respectful chairman and all present. In the answer I received, unfortunately only the general findings about the procedure being conducted and the problem that follows this procedure. Unfortunately, there are no concrete proposals in response, nor are there any indications when the retail crossing of tržački Raštel will be open to the transport of passengers and vehicles. In the response we received in 2010, everything that was conducted in this process and talks that ran with representatives of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. mixed committees, was more concretely summarised. In this response in 2015, unfortunately there is no such continuity of the procedure, so I am surprised that this very dung is explained by this procedure and I do not think enough attention is given to this border crossing, i.e. a small border crossing for passengers and vehicles. What I and this question wanted to encourage is that the competent authorities and institutions in BiH are doing their part of the job, that it is more concrete in these procedures, since it is the general interest of a part of the BiH state, we have stressed how important this issue is for the citizens of the UN-San canton and it is surprising that from the border crossing agreement, two small border crossings in the area of the UN-Sancanton are still not in office. Therefore, I will use my parliamentary right and will seek, in due course, a re-response of what has been done in this procedure and when this small border crossing is intended to open for transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5631	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm sorry, there's Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5632	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you to this session. So my question is anything is done and what has been done to prevent activities and expose actors who, through suspects and convicted persons, are trying to implement mounted court proceedings against high-level politicians. Of course, I got answers from the SIPA, from the Agency for Investigation and Protection, and I got them from the Intelligence Agency. My answer isn't complete because I didn't get it from the Department of Security, but I want to meet you as well as this House briefly on the answers I've received. In response from the Intelligence Security Agency, it is said that by checking the allegations from letters and actions delivered and conversations with the convict, it is actually the product of the construction of his information that can be obtained from convicted persons and from 11 media. Of course, the objective of this information is to ensure certain benefits and benefits in the maintenance of the prison sentence and it is estimated that the information obtained and the investigation has shown that they are not serious. The Agency is located, the subject is located with the Agency and all information has not been dealt with in any way with the content, as regards the intelligence part of the other institution, since it is a mentally unbalanced person whose punishment has not been found the elements of the underlying doubt, so that in this case, there are no elements for the taking of any investigative action. As far as the response I received from the Intelligence Security Agency is concerned, he's actually talking about that they haven't checked and that it's one, according to the law, a complex procedure that implies some kind of reliability, credibility of the elements, that they can't give a concrete answer at this point so that it's both non-serious for individuals and for BiH institutions. And it was said in the end that, concerning issues relating to the media performances of individual holders of the highest functions on the existence of the prosecutor's and judicial mafia, the Agency is unable to interpret their position here, according to personal opinions and statements. What I'm saying is that I have enough grounds to set up other institutions, means the basis of this kind of response, and that I still expect from the Security Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Security to report to us on such matters, so that we can seek the responsibility and conduct of other institutions in such cases, because this is something that speaks of the rule of law, which speaks of the security of all peoples and citizens living in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5633	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to take part in the comment debate on questions received? If no one answers the word anymore, we conclude, I'll conclude item 2 of the agenda. Moving to point three, that's Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-3/15, from 26.02.2015 (first reading) The draft law was delivered in the procedure on 26 February 2015. The Constitutional Foundation and Principles Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 24 March 2015. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5635	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. 12 So, as the promoter of these amendments and the addition of the BiH Sport Act, I want to say two findings at the beginning. First of all, it is good that at the state level we have adopted the Law on Sports of BiH, and secondly, it is evident that the existing law has many shortcomings and in this sense there is a strong need for us to propose amendments and additions to this law. The law that was delivered here in the procedure is the result, I must say, of months of preparation, discussions and discussions with a number of experts and experts from this area, from professors at the University, sports workers and former and current, prominent athletes and so on. Sports is without a doubt a category of special social interest. As such, it is recognised in all developed countries, primarily Western Europe and Western civilizations, but also in other parts of the world. It would be good to join BiH in this way, when it comes to sports. I think we should also use other countries' experiences in this respect, especially those that achieve the observed results on the sports plan. Our mission, the tasks of MPs and delegates in the House of Peoples is to prevent, detect and solve problems with the tool at our disposal. Our tools are laws and other legal acts with which we can change the system in BiH. I also attended a session of the Constitutional Commission, thanking the Constitutional Commission, which also supported the constitutional basis of this law and the principles of law. I have seen that part of the MPs also have certain interventions regarding individual solutions presented and offered in this law, but that is why I remind myself that it is the first reading and that, if this law is adopted in the first reading, the amendment phase follows. If so, I would like to say immediately that I am willing to compromise that from the amendments offered and the addition of the Sport Act, at least we accept what is acceptable for most here in the BiH Parliament. When I talk about it, I would first of all like to refer to Article 8 of the proposed amendment law. I think this article 8 is of interest to all BiH, both entities, all cantons and municipalities in this country. And what's this about? Namely, in Article 8 of these amendments and additions, I have proposed that we adopt provisions that speak of what are the obligations of BiH sports competition organisers. You will all agree that we face this problem almost every week. A little, little bit so we hear unrest in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Tuzla and Mostar, not to count Zenica and all the cities in BiH. We have to try to take advantage of our experiences and other countries. That is why the proposal for this law to make a legal provision is that the organizer of some sports events is obliged to ensure a smooth and secure maintenance of sports events and sports competitions. The organiser is obliged to take measures to prevent the risk of damage. There's no such thing in the existing law right now. Then, the legal provision under which the organizer of sports events and sports competitions is required to take the necessary security measures in accordance with the law. Or the provision that is proposed, which I think is extremely important, sports organisations are mandatory, I stress, to encourage the organisation and good behaviour of fans' clubs. Of course, one can say that part of this problem is regulated by some other laws. And that is true, but we are all witnessing that it is still ineffective and ineffective in BiH. I remind you that such solutions in the Law on Sports exist also in the solutions of countries in the region, as well as in many other countries in Europe. It would therefore be very important to have a legal obligation that BiH's sports event organisers have an increased and legal obligation on this plan. I don't think we have a solution in BiH, when we have an incident, when we have an escalation of some violence, then both the media and politicians and everyone else, we start talking about some problems only then. We should probably talk about some things before there's a problem. This is probably one, perhaps a modest way to resolve some things to better regulate and 13 legal norms that talk about, so that we have one situation that will be more and more approximate and more like what we have in Western Europe, where people can come freely to stadiums, where they can take their families, their children without any problems unlike the situation in BiH where it is not exactly at what level it should be. In that sense, so I remind you once again, so if there are already things that are not acceptable to some MPs, I suggest we try in phase two, and I am showing here now the willingness to compromise at least on things that are undeniable, and no doubt useful for all of us in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5636	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5637	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief and at first to say, as far as the constitutional basis is concerned, it is not a controversial constitutional basis for this law. Namely, by adopting the Law on Sports in BiH, we have also practically provided a constitutional basis for future amendments to this law. What is questionable to me are principles, which are shown in a number of members of this bill, and that is why I will not support the principles of this law. Namely, I do not now elaborate members who are able to change the amendment, as I do not know Article 1 where point e is added, new point e) sports education, although we all know that sports education is not the subject of sport, the Law of Sports, that it is a completely different area. Or, for example, Article 2 which speaks about the Strategy and where it is said that the Strategy will be defined by developmentists and measures to control their implementation, which is also not the subject of the Strategy but the subject of the executive authority, means that the law is implemented and should not stand in the Strategy. But I'm saying, here's one thing that can be changed and there's still more natural remarks that can be changed in the amendment phase, but what for me, I'm just going to say one thing that makes me not ready to support the principles, is a Article 4 or a change in Article 22. To remind you, Article 22, that is, the proposal for this is to delete Article 22, which reads - The BiH Sports Federation is established in accordance with this law and the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, based on decisions of entity sports alliances on voluntary association. So the key reason why we accepted the Law of Sports in time was this voluntary association. To erase the volunteering of association is, in fact, to bring down the key principle that we have adopted in the adoption of the law. So that is one of the key reasons why this law, after all, was then supported by Parliament. Here I am not taking the time of my colleagues, if because of our colleagues from the SNSD this law and passes into phase two, of course I will invest a number of amendments to this law, but in any case at this stage, it would be good if my colleague Bećirović had then taken care of what he is now prepared for, and that is that the bill does not touch the principles of the law, so today we would only discuss amendments in the second phase, and this part of what I'm talking about today, there would be no discussion. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5638	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5639	Okay, maybe this could be more called an explanation of some things. In fact, counterpart Novaković mentioned here the issue of sports education that is being introduced when it would agree to, that is, adopt this Amendment and Supplement proposal. To be clear, so to know what we're talking about, it's about what the definition of sports in this law is. The current definition says, according to the current law, sport within the meaning of this law includes sports activities and games organised to achieve sports achievements, etc., sports activities aimed at improving health and recreation, sports activities organised for disabled persons and organised school and university sports. So, in terms of definition, you should add here and sports education. I remind you that this is something that already exists in BiH in some way, but there is no such thing as a legal normised thing. If you look at how other countries, even more successful in the field of sport, here we go from the region, that's the question they define, you'll see that they put a lot of attention to what's called sports education and that there's that in the definition of sport. So it's about something that has a passageway as we see it in other countries. When it comes to the realisation of the Strategy and the development of sports in BiH and these are the things that exist in all other laws on sports, when you're making a comparison in other countries, and I don't see that there's any problem. I understand what you're talking about in Article 4, this is my proposal to amend and supplement, but I also want to say that it's better to pass 50% of this law than possibly to be rejected. I wanted to point out in particular this Article of the 8th Amendment and the addition that, in my court, should certainly contribute to the resolution or help solve one of the problems that we clearly have throughout BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5640	Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5641	I would like to thank the chairman, my colleagues and my colleagues. Offered by discussion, I didn't want to answer, I just wanted to get over this and vote to move forward in the process of this law. But offered by my colleague on the left, and as a man who was an active athlete for 30 years, who had a gold badge for SOFKE, the country that was no good for us, and now just serves me to collect dust, who has a rank of international athletes, and if that country had survived, I would have had some income in this country as an international athlete, I have equal zero, which is 24 times the champion of that country, which, individually, which is the team and European champion, and of that I have zero and so on. In order not to happen to generations that have come and that those who are engaged in sports and know what sport is, they know well that I am not speaking externally within the borders of my country, we cannot be represented but only and only through a single sports organisation in a particular sport. Today, we have a large number of different sports in general anarchy. Let's try, this law opens up a second-stage amendment opportunity for all those who have any idea what it's all about, making it a chance to give youth a shot at sports and have a perspective. There's 15 many shortages here, Denisa, a lot. It's not just one law that defines it. This is one of the laws that needs to define the overall field of sports. Don't forget that in the world, in the countries of the environment, in Europe, there is a special regulatory framework when it comes to professional sport. It's a whole other regulation. That we're gonna have to talk about this. Because today we have all kinds of, you know, all kinds of manifestations of professionals, and I don't know what kind of sports and we watch them very often on television screens anymore. That is why I propose that we go into procedure and try all together because of young people, because of BiH's youth, because of their youth, the enthusiast is a lot of, sports perspectives, to make it through this legislative regulation, untraceable of course entity, I don't know what kind, and in that country there was a rural, republican, regional alliance, but there was only one and only one at the top. So they were. All these alliances existed. They were even city organizations, they were called Sofke, who remembers it. Sofka Banja Luka, Sofka city of Sarajevo, Sofka Tuzla, Sofka Mostar, not to count them. And they all helped and it was one chain, and then it produced success. And we objectively don't have anything outside of our sportsmen's borders inside we produce, very little or minor, miserable little top quality, and we have a lot of potential. That's why a huge number of athletes show up, for what I've managed to collect from the press, which is through electronic media, which is through what's called the Internet and what sources of information, for more than 38 countries in the world, athletes from BiH come along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5642	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have to say that in most of what Mr. Backović was talking about, we have no problem. When I voted in favour of the Sports Act, I voted in keeping in mind what he was talking about. Although that's not entirely true, we have sports in which international competitions also participate as entities, so let's say karate and I don't know either. But of course, because it's necessary for a joint performance, so there's this part of unity between all athletes and clubs, we're in time, or I'm in favor of the Sports Act. But you didn't talk about what I was talking about as remarks of principle, not what we agree on. Here I agree with you now, so I don't know what I'm going to do when I'm getting along with everything you said, but you didn't say what you disagreed with from what I said as an observation. But of course, I don't think I'm going to convince you, nor do you, I suppose, have the ambition to convince me, we're probably thinking differently about some things and we're going to think. Anyway, so the key principle when we passed this law was the principle of volunteering. And touching the principle of volunteering is touching means the whole concept of this law. And I just said to my colleagues, if he thought we were to support Article 8 which, for me in a significant part, was not controversial, then he should not have gone with Article 4, because he directly endangers the principles on which this law was adopted, nothing else. And, of course, I'm not going to replicate anymore, since I'm saying, neither I can convince anyone or anyone can convince me of anything different. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5644	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5645	Dear colleague Momčilo, I didn't say anything against it, I said it was an offer of discussion. And then I said what I thought. And as for the example you set, you set a very ugly example because only one team can perform on European, global, Mediterranean games, student and so on. I can't entity, I can't do anything. What happened in that sport? Since I can't do it this way, we're forming quasi-feederations that aren't recognized now and they're not even in the drum at all, I hope you're aware that it's meant to be at the one, not the Olympic games in Brazil, but the next, that karate will be an Olympic sport and it'll only be official and one only Federation, that's the one that's the dominant Federation in the world today. And then we're gonna have to do it here, too, so we can put them together in a bag, because we've got top-notch ones, because otherwise they won't be able to perform anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5646	Thank you. Mr Mirsad Đonlagić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, you know, when it comes to sports, I'm more than weak and I have to do my own discussion, try to make a positive contribution or a positive impulse to every document that will in a certain way improve the situation in sport. I recently directed one initiative to the Council of Ministers to provide successful individuals and teams participating in European and world championships and Olympic games with material status in such a way that they can properly represent BiH, because I believe it is one of the most important things for the image of this country, because it is nothing invented by us in BiH but in history it has been confirmed countless times that this is an ideal opportunity for a country to affirm itself. Of course, with us I know different levels of responsibility, but I want to say that the Club of the SBB will support this proposal regardless of how we have certain objections to the text of this, to the proposed text of this law, and that in the amendment phase, it will make an effort to try to make a contribution to correct this text in the way we think it should look, but in any case everything that I repeat will contribute to the improvement or repair of the situation, when it comes to sport, we will support it. And here's another point I'm stressing the SBB Club will give support to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5648	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? If no one ever answers their word again, we'll conclude the debate on the 3rd agenda. 17 Let's go to point four, that's Ad. 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, which was submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11.02.2015, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Challenge and Expansion of National, Religious, Race and Other Forms of Hate in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. Act No 01-50-1-253/15, of 11.02.2015. This initiative was discussed at the 8th session of the House on 11 March 2015, due to a lack of entity majority during the vote, it was sent to the House College as a committee for reconciliation. The college didn't achieve consent, there's no debate here, we'll vote in the second round when we get to the vote. We're going to the five-day stand, that's Ad. 5. Proposal for a decision on the amount of RTTV tax, Proposer: Transport and Communications Commission, issue: 01/5-29-1247/14, of 23.03.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5651	I thank the chairman. I must say that at least from the last call, colleagues are familiar with our position, which is that the TV tax on these public services should not be paid by citizens, but rather by those in whose service they are in. So, I'm glad we finally got information in this proposal that RTRS owes BHRT 5 million marks. Unfortunately, the Cvijanović of Dodik did not Željke its basic legal obligation under the RTRS Act, which is that once a year, it submits a report on the work and work plan for the following year to the National Assembly of RS. Our colleagues in the National Assembly have not yet had a chance to see the RTRS work report for 2013. Now I understand from this Decision why, because RTRS is obviously dealing with losses, which is no wonder, because we can see from this that the emitters haven't taken advantage of all the opportunities to pick up RTTV subscription. 70% of the revenue goes to gross wages and fees, the Committee of the System, I was amazed to see, from March 2013 to March 2014, when unfortunately, at the head of the System Board, the chairman of the RTRS Management Board, did not meet his legal obligation to meet once a month, but met five times in a year, but the chairman of the System Board finely put 38 thousand nets in his pocket. And if we don't talk, I'd like us to know how many board members of our public service boards have monthly incomes. I know that RTRS has, I think, their gross incomes are five grand a month. In that, then we have a paradox for the minister of education to be a bit of a member of the RTRS Management Board, and then back to being justice minister. So we're here in a position to pay for party television that doesn't hide it at all. And we're all for that, so let's do it from the budget and let the citizens, and even if it's going to have other parties that make up most, in this case RTRS and DNS and the Socialist Party, we won't have a single color TV. Please, the public service obligation is that 60% of the program is theirs, I really have to admit that I don't watch the Federal and BHRT, I don't watch RTRS either, but we have a tasked agency that's been monitoring their work for a long time, and from this monitoring we see that they don't produce their own program, but they buy us expensive Turkish shows that we watch, and what we pay for the subscription, which is the programme they need to produce, among other things, those non-commercial, sports reviews, cultural ones. You know when we have cultural shows? At midnight, we don't have any sports exams at all, but that's why RTRS director buys us expensive Roland Garros, is that we love Novak Đoković – Why? To honor the director of the tennis union of RS, who again is the director of RTRS, at the same time, with his family, to go to Paris and watch Roland Garros. That's what I pay for. I'm sorry. I don't pay for it. And I don't pay for a TV subscription and I'll never pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5652	Okay, thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5653	Well, now Mrs. Pandurević has offered me a little bit to speak more than I thought, although the agenda item is the decision on the amount of tv subscription. I just wanted to explain, actually, because I'm a member of the committee for, here's what deals with this issue, and I was the only one there against it. Now, Miss Pandurević said that, in fact I don't know, she's not even a member of this committee I apologize, so I was the only one who opposed to making this decision because then at that session of the committee we were told - made me, did not make such a decision she would continue to apply in this form in which she is now. So, let's say in some way, under the pretext, there won't be a suspension of the funding system or the system here's the money supply of these public TV systems. But here's what I'm saying, I'm offering a little debate, so I'm going to say a few things, so it's not a subject, but I'm going to say a few things. First of all, the public must know that the Law on the TV System has not been implemented for years, so for years, the Law on the TV System has not been implemented and in this section relating to payment, so between the TV operator, so the repairer, there are also problems among them, they do not respect that Law, so here is something that Miss Pandurević said, they owe each other. At the end when we asked the committee for an analysis that we could make a decision, why 7.5 marks, why not 10, why not 6, why not 5, so we didn't get that analysis that we asked the Committee for but we got from BHRT and then he made such statements and some allegations that those who were there, the operators of the RTTV system other, here they didn't want to comment much, nor to speak. I said 19 there weren't all the facts presented, one of them for example. which I know, I don't have to be very specific, don't take me completely for a word, that in 2012, let's say, through the HT Ironet operator because it's a way to pay the subscription so far, it seems to me, in 2012, somewhere around 8 million marks, so an account has been put out for those purposes, and this one's been charged somewhere around 2 million marks. It doesn't stand there why it wasn't charged, there in that information we got from the gentleman from BHRT. This BHRT gentleman was on TV last night along with Mr. Director of the Management Board, this Čustović, and imagine he said say be careful – not journalists, says miners. What does that mean, he says, when the gentleman says he'll come to us here to Parliament, is it a threat or what the gentleman thought they weren't miners, we'll have to provide them with salaries whatever and whatever they're doing, because otherwise they'll wash Nikola Lovrinović for something, Miss Pandurević, by means of an alleged washing, or I don't know what they're going to say about us and what they are, what the gentleman meant by that, that they're not miners. So miners can't get paid, and they have to get paid, so for what they don't actually do for not implementing the law. Mr. Ćustović, on the contrary, said on BHRT last night he was a guest, I don't know what the name of the show was, he says – these broadcasters, or Public TV system is the fourth pillar of government. Imagine, imagine, so they would be power now. So, therefore, it is now, only some are reasons why I was on the committee against and why I think the decision on the amount of the subscription is not the solution to the problem we have. The commission in which I'm a member, and I heard in the House of Peoples, have proposed a comprehensive debate about the state of the TV system and if we were to make it, and therefore, I'd like to see this not to be decided at all, because they say they're independent, that I don't know what we're messing with, who we are, I don't know if you followed that information last night. So why do I have to decide this at all, for me, I don't have to make any decisions about this. I don't care what they do, how they do and how the law is implemented and how we let it actually work. And I said on the committee yesterday that I was coming, to those who were in front of the TV system, so that I came from one part of the public and that part, I represent one part of the public, I hope that I represent myself, and that I speak in the name of that public, so I can't represent their interests but those who chose me, and that part of the public that I am here, let's say that I represent is not satisfied with what they do. So they don't respect it, and they don't do anything to help solve this issue when it comes to legal regulation, except for what we are, of course, primarily invited to solve it. So, I just wanted to contribute a little bit, and I will, of course, remain principled in being on board, and I will not support this Decision, and I guess that debate will happen, which has been announced on the committee in which I am a member and on the committee of the House of Peoples dealing with similar problems. And I hope then that we will discuss all this and finally come to an end, one solution in my opinion is the adoption of a new Law on the Public TV System or at least a good, good amendment and addition of that Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5654	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5655	I must, although I agree mostly with what my dear colleague said, still stand in defense of the press industry. I don't think we should be falling into one trap here, equating public system journalists with their management and board of directors and editorial policy. Unfortunately, public service journalists are largely in the same difficult position as miners, because fighting for a naked existence is forced to suffer terrible things at work, not to say mobing. I personally have had numerous interventions by RTRS journalists who call me and apologize and say – please understand, the director has ordered me to say in a sentence what sort of mental part of Aleksandra Pandurević is. It's going, it's being broadcast on the Seal, and that reporter had to do it because he threatened to fire him if he didn't. And they're a lot, they're people who are really in the kind of conditions they're working on, even though I'm talking about RTRS because I know what it's like there, they deserve at the very least a certified internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5656	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5657	Well, I don't think we understood each other very well, I didn't even attack the press with a single word, but I said what Mr. BHRT's director said. So he said no to me, so I didn't attack at all. And if we're going to talk about the relationship between some journalists or editors, so the editor is a journalist at the end of the day, so here's the example, maybe this is how it works in a joke, yesterday, the day before, the day after these conversations, and even about these issues of journalists, it's not fair to mention her because she's not guilty, I agree with you, she's been waiting for hours and a half to give me some information, and I didn't see anything from that, but the editor just let go of what he liked. He saw an esteemed colleague, Mehmedovic, because he probably liked what he said, so what he asked me for for 10 minutes was no way to get there, so the editor set it up or the director, here's what you want. So, I haven't attacked the press, of course, nor do I think of it, certainly understand the complexity of their work and under normal circumstances, let alone the abnormal in which they work as they do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5658	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5659	The Honorable Chairman, two sentences only. I think we've fallen into a trap and we've gone the wrong way with this discussion. Through personal experience and personal relationship, we are trying to observe the entire system, with me having no problem agreeing with some of the thematics brought forward by colleagues Lovrinović and counterpart Pandurević, especially this thesis on the fourth pillar of power. There are people in the media who think they're the fourth pillar of power, they act like that, and if they analyze it a little bit, they're the fourth pillar of power. Why is that, 21 of us could talk about it. So, there's a media that sets up ministers, replaces, determines the fates of laws, initiatives, etc. However, to return to what is on today's agenda, it is not, this has turned into a forum on media relations and media freedom, an editorial policy, so this is not the point of the agenda, although it would be good to open this story and why not in the BiH Parliament where we discuss various topics and this. But what's ahead of us today is a question that we need to give an answer to, whether we're for this kind of proposal or not. A colleague of Lovrinović said whatever decision we make remains in force, a previous decision that is the same as this one. So, nothing will apply much, and I think I'll support this right away, to plead, but it would be good to go further into the discussion with the knowledge that people are passing both editors and directors and journalists, and that the system is the one that stays and that we should take care of him whether or not we need him. I think we should also make a contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5660	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5661	I won't anymore, and obviously I have neither the right nor the Rules of Procedure, so this was no personal experience at all, because I just wanted to say, obviously, what it looks like, but the law that they're acting on is not just a matter of subscription. So he's comprehensive and he regulates everything, so whether it's just a matter of solving money insurance, and it doesn't matter what goes on in this law, the production of the program and everything else. The example does, therefore, the money collected is therefore paid by the right, i.e. their obligation to present to the public certain things that the public is interested in. Here's just one example, so has the chief UN tribunal prosecutor recently visited BiH? Yes, it is. Have you seen on any public TV system that Mr. Bramerc was in New Bill, not on any, so that's the public who's also interested, for example. to hear that fact and what they talked about. No public TV system, private houses have informed about it, or I apologize if I haven't followed anything, and as far as I've followed, none of them have. If we're going to take a TV subscription to pay, so public TV systems to inform me so, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5662	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5663	Sir, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. This is the item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the amount of the TV tax and from a purely formal aspect, as someone has already said, we should today only formally make a decision on the amount of the TV fee of 7.5 KM. Because the original decision that has been defined means when the Law on the Public TV System was passed and it was 6, it seems to me, the KM so far has only made alignment with the level of inflation and we have what we have today. But I'm not going to talk today about editorial policy like here some colleagues have ambition, which is why the state of public tv space is the way it is, we don't need 22 to look for the guilty outside of this room, because we're the culprits because we've passed the law as it is, because it doesn't work, because it's not being implemented, because so on and so on. etc. Because the position of journalists is also difficult because we don't do our job. Allow me, but we are obliged to consider, at the beginning of each year, a report on BHRT's work, because we are authorized by the law to consider both their work plan and the financial plan, and here we are not yet on the agenda and it is the third month at the outset. Why is it so we're guilty of such a situation. Therefore, we do not need to look for the culprit outside this room, but certainly we should talk about these issues even though we have tried to open this discussion on the commission, but of course we are due to conflicting political views and views on this issue we cannot come to any conclusion. But I'm asking you today to take this decision on, in a formal sense, to make it, because it is necessary. On the other hand, we may commit some conclusion to BHRT to finally deliver to us what we need under the Public TV Service Act, that delivery means a proposal for a work programme for this year and a financial plan, because we are obliged to consider it at Parliament's meetings. It is obvious that in this area we have a complete mess and everyone who initiates changes and amendments to the law on this area is certainly welcome, I sincerely expect the new Council of Ministers to deal seriously with this topic and to say what we really want with the public system, what we want with public services, because it is obvious that the way to collect a tv tax, if we can call it that, is not good because it is obvious that half of the state does not pay a tv tax. And these half salaries and are arranged according to the law, so 50% of BHRT, 25% of entity services. But if we look at the essence of who's actually the biggest part of the pay for the tv fee, it's going to be clear that, who actually cares about these, to this public broadcasting system. So it is certainly right that those who say they have objections in one way or another, but they should not be observed in general, because on one show, as my colleague Lovrinović said, there is someone who likes it, someone doesn't like it, so here's my turn to get my statement to someone who likes it, I'm glad if it is. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5664	Thank you very much. Mr. Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5665	Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. We need public services in the media area and we need to create conditions for them to function. The degree on which they are present today also shows their inadequacy in the needs they are destined for and the irresponsibility of the founders to create assumptions that this construction is complete. And that's the thing now, based on the experience that we have in implementing the Law on Public TV Service, is the process we need to go through, to see what it is and how it needs to be changed in law to be. But it needs to be fair and responsible, and the founders haven't done everything they need to do to get employees in the Public TV system in a position to be able to perform their roles and we have a lot of objections here. We have no working conditions, we have access to policies that are being overinvolved, but that doesn't mean we need to put that system in a position that it simply needs to be destroyed that it can't work, because we haven't made a decision about the continuity of paying a fee. It is indisputable that the tax must be paid, what is lacking in the efficiency of the system needs to be investigated, should be found on the relevant bodies and parliament to change. We need to adopt today's extension decision. Also today, from the speakers of this Parliament, we need to tell the authorities from the levels that are adequately 23, that collecting fees should not be questioned when the engagement of those who have done so so far, there must be a mechanism for how that continuity exists. The SBB will support this tax as a club, we need a wider debate on how to function and the conditions in which the TV service is located, but I have to say that we have services that appear today when they appear on the public scene, with cameras that are over 25 years old, depicts all the relationship of society to what its service is, we will support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5666	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5667	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, here I am going to be a little bit and chair of the Commission, but I will also make some of my views about this issue. In fact, we have tried as the Commission to deal very seriously with this issue, and that we are telling the fact that we have discussed this at several sessions, that we have delayed making a decision by asking for a serious financial analysis that would show that this amount of determined tax reflects on the business of public services. And I have to say, unfortunately, that we were actually looking for this we got something completely different, and that's knowing that the Governing Board of the Public TV System of BiH is not working. In fact, he did not, not that he did not deliver the requested analysis but did not consider it appropriate in any way to inform the Commission of why he did not do it or why he did not want to do it. The only one who did this in some way was BHRT, or the RTVBH Management Board, but despite not getting this analysis, and there was an opinion on the Commission that we should not make a decision until we have this analysis, he prevailed that we should make a decision, regardless of which we do not have an analysis solely because of one member of the Law that he said – that Parliament is required within 30 days of the proposal of the Communications Regulatory Agency to make its decision. Here was the key reason why the Commission made the decision, i.e. the proposal for a decision as it is, although it did not respect what it asked for. And right now, to say that there are indeed a number of problems in this area, not only those spoken of by my colleague Lovrinović, and probably here in the last 10 years, it is primarily the attitude of the representatives of the Croatian people, but also those mentioned by counterpart Pandurević. And that's why I'm close to the position that it would be good for us to try together if we get into the essence of the problem, whether we're going to come to a solution, of course, that's another question, but at least to open up space and deal with something that's different and conflicted, under the alleged signs of conflict, for a long time. As far as the decision itself is concerned, so I supported this Decision and I will support it, again taking care of one position in the Law that it has said – that even if we do not make that decision within 30 days, it remains in force earlier decisions. So it's a decision on height 7.5 KM once, meaning one tax, so I thought, so I'm talking now about my position, I thought that if it's going to stay it shouldn't be given at this point of time that political dimension, but that this question should be opened absolutely agreeing not only with this aspect but also with other aspects that are mentioned here, which are not mentioned here and which are visible. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5668	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5669	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to even consider this issue, what we swear is necessary, and that is what we call the Constitution, or the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is both an integral part of the Constitution and its Annex, which treats public corporations, it would be necessary for us, like those who swore to it, to respect it, to live up to what is called a public corporation. And we all know here that this segment didn't come back to life and it doesn't exist, but not just in this area, but in more areas. And then we could go towards a final solution to how something called media service, public media service or tv service works. The amount, or amount, that is, the figure that citizens should give is something that is determined on the basis of the total potential body they need to give on the basis of the budget so that the public service can function as a corporation. Methods which determine that it could function and harvest are different and obviously obstructed in this country, i.e. deliberately chosen such that public services cannot function. Our laws are one after another in absolute cohesion, it's said to go through a telecom operator, and then we passed a law that cable operators can provide and functions that are in the jurisdiction of a telecom operator, that's a stable telephony. So today you have at least 20 stable telephone operators in Sarajevo. And those who are no longer in the BH Telekom system are no longer in the records and cannot be charged because they are not there, because they are not in the records. But we didn't make it there that and through them you can charge a tv tax, which is inappropriate, it's just one segment. So let's say a telecom operator in the RS had a very simple idea, very simple, so he bought cable operators and then transferred some of the network to cable operators. And that's the case you have in Sarajevo "M:tel" bought "Logosoft", and "Logosoft" provides services from stable telephony and no charge. So you have one floor in one building one pay, and three, because they're different, they don't pay, on one floor, because they're on different cable operators. Instead of applying something that's much simpler, instead of taking a step to just create independent journalism and making these people really become people who aren't going to work under the dictatorship of political parties, they're going to work on what's called the truth, what's called the real state, what's called the effects of our work, and that's what they're reporting. No, they have to report on dictatorships, because that's what their lives depend on. And I understand them from that side, even though I have a constant conflict with them. So from this hall is transferred to the central "Dnevnik" just one third of the sentence I said, that one third means completely the other in relation to what I really said. Why only they know it, only they know it. The method of billing through those who distribute electricity is far more efficient, because there is no household in this country that does not have one of the radio and television devices, or everyone has it, but also households do not exist that do not have a proper place for electricity and it still belongs to the state, so it is the state that directs and very easily solves this problem. Because there's a growing number of people who even cross and shut down stable telephony, now these cards today you buy one, tomorrow the other, the day after the third, and you walk around as you want and we don't have... It's amazing that we now have the list and the number of households, and that compared to the number of households, we have multiple payments, I'm not talking about the number of residents, I'm talking about the number of households, I'm exacting myself. In this city where I live, it's not possible for Alipasha's Field to only live around 1,200 households if we know there are more than 25,000 apartments, because we have what I'm talking about right now. And it's all a product and a product of disrespect to what we as MPs have sworn, let's go, give the Council of Ministers, let's make an effort to revive a public corporation, then we'll solve all the other problems, but all the other problems. Because this way we won't solve and we'll still have a media service in RS that's a stick in the hands of some, media service in the Federation, I'm sorry that my colleagues here have one from the SDP there they forgot, the bat in the hands of the SDP of such and such, so the shows of these and such, so they were bats, beatings, if you say anything against expect next Monday you're treated, scanned just like you're going through the doctor's magnetic resonance. No problem, everything will stick to you, all the labels of this world. I will support going with this Decision, and I note in this Parliament, not in the previous one, but in the mandate before that, a representative of the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party Mr. Sefer Halilović has now submitted what I am talking about as an initiative in writing and what was then submitted is a dead letter to this day, a dead letter. I don't want to talk any further, it's all tied to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5670	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5671	Mr. Chairman, actually, the motive for my announcement is parliamentary intervention. I don't even know how many, an hour we've been discussing a point called a proposal for a decision on a tv taxi, and in fact no one has said anything, and all MPs, here I am inviting MPs to stick to the agenda, when you, Mr. Chairman, are not going to intervene, so stop these pointless debates that don't matter at all at this point. So we're discussing the height of the tv tax, and we're talking about editorial policy. We're discussing a tv taxi, we're talking about a TV tax issue, etc. etc. So, I'd like to ask your intervention in the future, and I'd ask my colleagues not to talk about what's not on the agenda. The SDP Club supports this decision, and all that has to do with the conditions in which the broadcasters work, of course, we will solve, demand and seek our initiatives in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5672	Thank you very much, Mr. Mešić. I'm really taking care of the debate itself. Thank you for your suggestions, but I think this is the best way for a session to happen. I can invite my colleagues and colleagues not to discuss what's not a point, but things are connected and it's hard to tell, to tell you, it's hard to be a judge, in that sort of thing. Mrs. Borjana Krišto asked for a word. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5673	Thank you very much. Here I listened very carefully to these discussions that were really under the point of the decision to determine the tax, the tv tax and, of course, here's to respect what my colleague said now, how can we say that we are discussing without touching these things that our colleagues and colleagues were talking about. I really won't be long, I will try to refer to what is the item of the agenda, respecting that also the president of the club, Mr Nikola Lovrinović, has in some way expressed our party's position. However, I will also look back at the decision. According to Article 8. The law on the tv system, the system committee, is the one that determines the RTT tax proposal. In the same Act in Article 22, it should be determined that the Regulatory Commission, i.e. the Agency for Communications of BiH, prepares and delivers a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly for the amount of the RTV tax, and whereas it is found in paragraph 3 that the Board of Systems, means to the Regulatory Agency, the proposal for a future tv fee, meaning that now, when we take into account the provisions of this law, we see that there is absolutely no such justification, and we know that this has not been delivered, because this would mean delivering reports to the public TV system. And now, I'm getting attached here to what my colleague Saša was saying, that maybe a little debate is going one way, that we're all talking some sort of personal attitude without talking about the system. I'd like to say, does this system itself want to build as a system? We were at a meeting as members of the College when we discussed this one proposal, where the representatives of the public TV system were with us and I naturally gained this impression. I wouldn't want to be an individual here. A lot has been said, I welcome all these things and each of us has some personal experience and opinions about the media. So I can look back briefly on what I heard on TV last night. All the short shows were in that direction, as none of the parliamentarians have the right or think, I shall say so, I have experienced it, we have no right to express our position. We're just right, we're just obliged to determine some amount of tax, so that the public TV system somehow survives. Respecting the fact that we know that TV tax is not charged at 50 percent, and we also know why. Because there's no legal basis for such a foothold. There are judicial institutions, why don't they charge such a fee, if it's possible to charge that tax? And I'm telling you that anyone who submits an ordinary objection to a solution received by the court will never pay that tax because there is no legal basis. Therefore, my views go in the direction of that, that we really want to regulate this area, but it implies an arrangement in the organisational sense and in each other, and then in the financial sense. Imagine representatives from the RS when they rose, they said it was in function I don't know, one party. Others say it should continue, etc. I have some kind of experience with television, too. I like to keep it. They're very ugly and I've been told directly by how, I've been told directly by the people of the house, how information is placed and how it is created and how it is played in public. But I want to say, we want to arrange this area in a way that also the Croatian people as a constituent people in BiH deserve the media as a fundamental human right, deserves a medium in their own language. And until this area is settled in a way that the Croatian people have a medium, a channel in Croatian, the Croatian people will certainly not pay that subscription and we certainly cannot talk about the system, the public TV system. I'll call everyone, someone here mentioned the conclusion of the House of Peoples. 27 For a long time, and in the past, we had the conclusion of the House of the People, to whom we were obliged to make an amendment to the Law of the public television system. And I suggest to all of us that we turn to this, to be serious and responsible, to make changes to the Law on the Public TV System that we will really regulate both organisationally and financially as a system. Until then, decisions like this, it's our irresponsibleness and it's not building a system and I don't want to contribute to anything that's not called the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5674	Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5675	I just want to say that this is a citizen's home that was elected by citizens and that for me, it's at least personal, unacceptable that anyone here after a pay phone would give himself the right to speak for himself on behalf of any nation in this country. I respect the election results, some voted, a huge number of people didn't vote, etc. but to speak of what is the will of a whole nation, let it be that these are past times and that it is not appropriate in this House to speak in such a way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5676	Mrs. Krišto, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5677	I am not surprised by your views, your statements and I fully know that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is composed of two homes. That it's one citizen, it's a House of Representatives, but it's another House of Peoples. We're talking here and my remarks were on the public TV system. And we speak in the context of this, and BiH, whether you liked it or not, is the BiH state of three constituent nations, Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin and those who do not plead as members of any of these peoples. I do not deny such a thesis, but I will always, as a member and a representative of a party and a member of a nation, express the attitudes and peoples and, of course, other citizens, for whom I am here and whose interests I represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5678	Mr. Mirsad Mešić, replica. Please, let's end this point. Mr. Backović, you've had a discussion already.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5679	Here today we have witnessed probably as it is, probably for the first time in the world, that the future chairman or current deputy, the first vice-president, invites citizens not to respect the law that this House has passed. Here, I still don't have a comment, so you decide what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5680	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, replica. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5681	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase very briefly to the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Krišto. If I understand correctly, it is said that the Croatian people should have their public service upside down, we know about the canal in Croatian. I just want to remind you that no people here have their own channel. At this point, they have neither Bošnjak nor Srbin. The second thing is that, what is pre-reception, which means let's say RTRS, is it a channel of the Serb people or is it an entity public broadcaster. I'm just such a fixer-upper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5682	Mrs. Krišto is looking for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5683	It's just not my style to replicate, but I don't get it, I can't even stay silent about all this stuff. I'm going to say something that may not be appropriate, or we're pretending to be crazy about everything we know, everything we hear, everything we see. We know very well that there is an entity television. We know that individuals, so entity television, are in the function of even one policy and one party. Not to say, one nation, when it comes to the Bosniaks in the Federation and the Serb people in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5684	Mr. Zaim Backović, after that I will take the floor for discussion and we will conclude. Here you go, Mr. Backović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5685	Thank you. I will ask that in this way we do not talk for the simple reason that the creation of ethno national public services leads to another extreme. Especially if we know we're going to have this big problem, for me a sweet problem that we hope to solve, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, where there is no one-national but there is the right of every citizen. In this principle, what we have constitutionally declared or done or what those in Dayton have done to us, giving us an exclusive right to this country through three names Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, forgetting that this country is made up of some others. After we make and give everyone a chance to be elected and elected, we will probably have to make a large number of channels, for a large number of those who are equal in this country, because they are not just constitutive peoples. It is equally legal for all those who are citizens of this country. We even have a situation where as MPs, we don't respect the Constitution. The first member is the Convention on Human Rights and is said in the first article that the Convention is above all laws in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5686	Time, time. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5687	And I'm asking you to respect that and let's go to the creation of a corporation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5688	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5689	We'll solve a lot of things through a public corporation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5690	Mr. Lovrinović, you have used your rights according to this agenda. I'd like you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5691	The speaker, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5692	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore they are right to say that today should be a very simple item of the agenda, which should address a technical issue that has been imposed by law on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So today, we need to make a decision on the height of the tv preplant, the fees for the possession of the receivers, and that's actually the point. But it's also true that it's not possible to talk only about this thing and not touch some other things that are related to this issue. We will very soon have to deal with one more issue, and it applies in the way of collecting the RTV tax, because on 26 April of this year, the date comes when the public system can also come to a serious problem if there is no intervention of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And I want first of all to invite us to do these two things today, so we adopt this Decision and then urgently, the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure delivers us an appropriate act that we will consider here, so that on 26 April this year we will not be in an uninvited situation. What I want to say and why I am particularly out for the speaker is the fact that we can have agreements in BiH and have misunderstandings on many issues. But until we reach an agreement in BiH on one of the issues, there is a valid system that must be respected. To advocate new agreements and thus to avoid respecting the existing system is something that leads us to anarchy. So we have an existing system and it has to be respected and here is the problem, we are in trouble today, because we did not all in BiH respect the System and Service Laws. Let's respect that for the rest of our lives. To do everything prescribed by these laws. We are Members of Parliament and our actions must be directed in that direction. So, to respect everything that is a positive regulation in BiH, to conduct a discussion, if we need to change something, but not respecting the existing system, to justify new changes on which there is no agreement, is to repeat, something that leads us to anarchy. 30 I ask you to take this fact into account, for if what is prescribed by law had been respected, we would today have a system that corresponds to every citizen of BiH. We don't have the concept of ethnic services. We have the concept of state and entity services, where all languages in BiH must be respected. And if there is a problem and an observation that a language is not respected at one of the services, let the right be told why it is or where it is so and should be respected. But advocating ethnic division and a brand-new concept because of the objection that language is not respected or respected, is something that goes beyond this system. And I ask you to take care of this, so both Serbian and Croatian and Bosnian languages, languages that are officially used in BiH, and all other languages used in BiH must be respected within the existing system. And if there's a problem, let's see where the problem is. But to say it is not respected, and that's why we're looking for an ethnic division, that's something that's unacceptable. This country cannot go into further ethnic and territorial divisions after Dejton neither milligram nor millimeter nor any possible dimension. It can only go into reintegration and reconstruction. And it wasn't Dejton who made BiH the way we have today, it was BiH who made Dejton the way it was in '95. And please turn to work and start doing our job seriously and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5693	Thank you, colleague Džaferović. Denis Bećirović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5694	I want to make it very clear that there are three public services in BiH, both at the state level and in two entities. None of these three public services are intended to be exclusive to one nation. And the legal norm is quite clear in this respect and there is Professor Vajzović, absolutely right. Whether there is a certain gap in BiH right now between what is a norm and what is a practice, we can talk about it and talk about it, probably that there is, to some extent, but I see our task in trying to democratically ensure that both state television and two entity etc. truly be a mirror for BiH, for all citizens and all the peoples of BiH to be treated equally and equally. This is where I see our mission, our role, and certainly not, in further destruction or some new divisions through this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5695	Mr. Mirsad ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please sit down, you didn't get the word. You didn't get the word. I'm warning you, you didn't get the word. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I would really turn to everyone here, ask that we return the metrics and that these things that are being discussed here, that you leave among yourselves coalition partners, that you agree with these things and that you come to Parliament with harmonised attitudes so that we can discuss it more effectively. Now let's get back to what's under discussion. Because this is already becoming an awkward debate. And here I understand that people are unhappy and they're irritated and they're hit, and it's clear to me that there are problems whatever you want, but we've finally come to a situation that's really very, very unpleasant right now because we're away from the subject. And I ask you to go back to what is measured and once again say, and discuss the rest among yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5698	I'm closing the debate. Thank you. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-397/15, of 17.03.2015. The proposal for a decision was established by the Joint College. In accordance with Article 17. The law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions needs the House of Representatives to appoint three members in this Commission. The Joint College proposed that MPs Đorđo Krčmar, Borjana Krišto and jasmin Emrić be appointed to the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest. I'm opening a debate. Business intervention, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5700	I thank the chairman. I'm really sorry to do this twice in a row, but you leave me no choice. In particular, Article 1. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is being organised and operated in accordance with the BiH Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure. It is specifically about the law, that is, the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions, which, among other things, was called upon by the Joint College when it provided us with names, i.e. the composition of the Commission. In this regard, Article 17(4) of that Law states very clearly – at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission shall be composed of MPs and delegates from opposition parties of which at least one member of the delegations from the House of People and at least one member of the MPs from the House of Representatives. So, when we return, Article 17(1) to implement this Act, a Commission is set up to decide on a conflict of interest. Article 2 The Commission shall consist of nine members. The Commission shall consist of 9 members, of which three members are representatives of the House of Representatives and of the House of Peoples, and of two deputy directors of 32 agencies. But the Commission consists of nine members. So Article 3 says the members of the Commission name both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, and then Article 4 is now back on it again, says - at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission. So 1/3 of 9 and not 1/3 of 6, as you obviously imagined. Now, I understand you, obviously you've been going, obviously you've been handling an initial proposal that came from the Council of Ministers when this law was adopted and this initial proposal really does say, here I have a proposal here, the 4th article of the 17th says – at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission from the ranks of MPs and delegates will be from opposition parties. But that's the suggestion. And now I hold what has been published in “the Official Messenger, ” or what has been adopted in this congregation. And that Article 17, paragraph 4, says - at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission. Therefore, it does not say at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission in the order of legislators and delegates anymore. What has been adopted says at least 1/3 of the members of the Commission are MPs and delegates from the opposition parties. So 1/3 is 3 out of 9 and not 2 out of 6, as you imagined. And here's to make out, what you've imagined – Đorđo Krčmar SDS, Borjana Krišto HDZ, jasmin Emrić A-A-SDA, one opposition. From the House of the Peoples Dragutin Rodić DNS one opposition and Halid Genjac and Bariša Čolak, meaning SDA, HDZ. So, we remain on two, two names from the opposition, resulting in the fact that it is an extremely important Commission, there is no further debate on this. I really invite you to adopt this intervention, to request a break, or to take a break, and to do this in a manner that is in accordance with the law. Look, it's an extremely important question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5701	It's past business intervention time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5702	This Commission decides on a conflict of interest and has the power to impose sanctions and, if it works, if it is established and not in accordance with the law, all decisions will fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5703	Thank you very much. So we've taken care of both the law and the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, all of these provisions are respected. The second is the matter of interpretation, you have the right to your view, to your interpretation. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5704	Thank you very much. I will admit that I did not understand those three members whether they were outsiders, so neither of them were from the House of Peoples of the Nine Commission members? So if that's the case, if I understood it correctly, then I don't see the logic that they're dividing into those who are opposition or, by the logic of things, they wouldn't go into this quota to count into 1/3. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5705	So that's the opinion that's contrary to what's been said before, which I share, is shared by the College, but people have the right to say what they think. Mr. Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5706	I only ask that, in accordance with Article 90(2), it be classified as meaning in the Rules of Procedure, that I have warned of a violation of the BiH Constitution or of the Rules of Procedure. Violation of the BiH Constitution, concrete democratic principles of Article 1(2). - BiH is a democratic state that operates in accordance with the law. I'm telling you again, the Council of Ministers' proposal specified 1/3 from the ranks, while the passed law says clearly 1/3 of the Commission's members. The Commission numbers 9 members, 1/3 should be from the opposition. The law is very clear, especially when viewed in the light of a proposal that is completely different.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5707	Okay, thank you very much. You have the right to that opinion. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5708	Thank you. I must express my dissatisfaction with the members, respecting all those members, because here it is once again being set that the Democratic Front is either part of someone's pendant or something. We believe that there should also be someone from the Democratic Front in this important commission. If you haven't found anyone in the House of Representatives, it should have been someone from the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5709	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven. You heard all the answers you needed to hear. We're moving to agenda seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-401/15, of 17.03.2015. The proposal for a conclusion has been established by the Joint College, in accordance with Article 51(1) of Article 9 and 11 of this Law on High, and 11. Framework law on higher education in BiH. It is necessary that 34 House of Representatives appoint three members in this Commission. The College suggested that both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's temporary joint commission to conduct procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency – Mensura Beganović, Nenad Lalić and Nikola Lovrinović. The SNSD's proposal is to name Mr Jovan Vukovljak, the SBB MP's proposal to appoint MP Mirsad Đonlagić and we have a proposal from the DF Club, the Democratic Front to name the Parliament of Mensura Beganović. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eight-day point, that's Ad. 8. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-400/15, since 17.03.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5712	I'm on behalf of the SBB Club looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5713	At the request of the SBB, take 15 minutes. Continuing at 12:25 p.m. Please continue to work, we have a quorum. The president of the SBB Club asked for a break, please explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5715	The President-in-Office, given that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, is more specifically Article 76(1), in which he clearly states - the MP is obliged to specify the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which have been injured 35, after which the Chairman of the House will decide on the justification of the objection regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The position of the SBB Club is that you should explain exactly as stated in paragraph 1 of this Article whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured by what counterpart Arnaut has made remarks on the composition of this Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5716	Okay, thank you very much. I said what I had to say, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, and on several occasions I've talked about it, and now I'm standing by to take care of it and to respect both the Rules of Procedure and the Law and the Constitution, of course, it's the right for people to think differently and I can't do anything about it, and I don't want to end up with it. We move on, we stop at the 8th point of the agenda, we finish the 8th, right, we enter the 9th point. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses, issue: 01,02-34-1-399/15, of 17.03.2015. The proposal for a conclusion has been established by the Joint College in accordance with Article 17. The Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act requires the House of Representatives to appoint three members in this Commission. The colleagues suggested that both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's temporary joint committee to implement procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption are appointed by MPs Hanka Vajzović, Borislav Bojić and Monika Tomić. The proposal of the SNSD Club MPs is that MP Milica Marković is also appointed to the Commission. And the proposal of the MPs from the DF Club is to appoint a Member of the Commission, Maja Gasal-Vražalica. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the 10th agenda, that's Ad. Ten. Proposal for a decision to appoint the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-398/15, since 17.03.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5719	I thank the chairman. So, it's clear this, you go, the first thing we do when we get the materials weren't names, these names around the college proposal you're putting out at the last minute you can say, uh, but it's clear in which direction you're going with all these temporary commissions, this, there's power, the ruling coalition represented. The style clearly exists when, uh, it comes to the distribution of places around these neighbours, I only hope that these commissions are not paid, or that there is no fee for working in the same, and if it turns out that this is how we will certainly insist on our guidelines politically that there is no fee for any commissions, working groups etc., and this body is whether. This, therefore, we will be against these proposals and in principle against in the sense that the opposition is not represented, and not the SBB as a party in any of them, and this refers to the one where I problemed where the law was broken, this one, and where you will have problems when the Commission begins to act, absolutely is not our intention, nor did we propose anyone from the SBB to the Commission, but it is important that there be more people from the opposition. You've shared it the way you wanted, you've even given seats to this, the one where you give the place from the opposition where it's mandatory, the place given means to the members of the opposition who have the least number of MPs in this House. So don't shake hands with the power of the opposition party at all, etc. In any case, it is very interesting to see such a style when it comes to the distribution of seats in commissions after such an incendiary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5720	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5721	Mr. Chairman, I only remind you of what has been agreed with the club heads and the Joint College that Hanka Vajzović, not Hazim Rančić, will go to the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5722	Okay, thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5723	Thank you, Chairman. I'm just saying that there's nothing agreed on in the extended college, given that I'm correcting my colleague Bećirović, that's how it was supposed to be, but that's not how it was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5724	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-402/15, since 17.03.2015. The proposal for a conclusion is set out in accordance with Article 93. The BiH Public Procurement Act requires the House of Representatives to appoint three members in this Commission. The colleagues suggested that both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's temporary joint commission to appoint two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar name MPs Salko Sokolović, Đorđo Krčmar and Vjekoslav Bevanda. The proposal of the SNSD Club MPs is to appoint MP Dušanka Majkić in the Commission. The proposal of the MPs from the SBB Club is that MP Mirsad Isakovi and the proposal from the DF Club is to appoint a Member of the Commission, Maja Maja-The Gasal-Vražalica. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Isaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really don't know the criteria for choosing these candidates, we here have a situation in which we had... a choice in commissions and delegations. We have people here who have been very competent for individual committees and have not been elected to any delegation, I would like to know first what the criterion is, the same thing now we have a position, we are saying that it's not on an extended college, it's not a commission, it's not a commission, and here we have corrections by the same thing. So, there's already something predetermined here that we should vote on right now, here's how much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5727	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. 38 We move to item 12 of the agenda, Ad. 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-404/15, since 17.03.2015. The proposal for a conclusion is set out in accordance with Articles 8, 10 and 12. The Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH requires the House of Representatives to appoint three members in this Commission. He suggested that both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's temporary joint commission to implement the procedure for the appointment of the three human rights ombudsmans of Bosnia and Herzegovina be appointed MPs Safer Demirović, Borislav Bojić and Nikola Lovrinović. The proposal of the SNSD Club MPs is that MP Miroslav Milovanović is also appointed to the Commission. The proposal of the SBB Club MPs is to appoint MP Damir Arnaut in the Commission and the proposal of the MPs from the DF Club is to appoint MP Željko Komšić in the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5729	I thank the chairman. I think it's very important, so to underline that you gave the extended college a deadline yesterday until the beginning of the session to all parties to deliver the candidates' names, and apparently you've identified the candidates' names, since the candidates' names were delivered by the beginning of this week, the College certainly didn't meet after its beginning and determine these names. So, all these names have been established before, and then you dissuade the MPs of the minority by giving them a deadline as until the beginning of the session to deliver their names, or their proposals. In any case, it's very clear here, only where the opposition is by law, where the law requires that the opposition be found in the commission, that's where you put the opposition, everything else you've divided among yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5730	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5731	Listen, of course I haven't responded before, the way that those who run this House, and we chose them, you who sit in college, I wonder at all if there is equality, whether we are equal, whether we have the same rights in this House all MPs or there are MPs you don't need, so let's not come to these sessions, because you just need a voting machine. Because MPs are here to work, not sit and nod. Count the commissions in the regular composition and what you've done now, so count how many commissions are individual, individual gentlemen, and then you'll figure out what you're doing. This really doesn't work, this first of all makes it that, this is not about forming a government but about bodies representing all MPs and having the right not only those forming executive power, because this is Parliament this is not the Council of Ministers which a couple of 39 parties draws together. But Parliament is made up of all political parties and everyone has the right to access. You are making an exclusive by forgetting that there are others who are also chosen by the will of the citizens, not only those whom you have lined up and that is, above all, an unfair relationship in this House. What you are showing is that in the coming period, we who are also as equal as you are in this Parliament are, however, working and discussing and acting, because you are obviously neglecting that we too have a name representative in the House of Representatives of the BiH State Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5732	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion on the referral of the request to the BiH Presidency to inform the House of issues related to the proposal for a state-level border agreement between BiH and Montenegro, Proposers: SBB Club MPs, Act No: 01-50-1-429/15, of 25.03.2015. We put this dot in the session today, you got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5734	Here I guess, I think I have an obligation to explain this, or the club has an obligation to explain, I'll do it on behalf of the club, although it's pretty clear everything this morning when we explained the requirement to put this point on the agenda. And we also believe that everything is quite clearly explained in the very course of what we have delivered, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion and a justification for it. Therefore, the conclusion is clearly based on the very explicit provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Representatives of the Parliamentary House of BiH, in particular Article 183 of the Rules of Procedure, says - at the request of the House or at its request of the BiH Presidency at the meeting of the House - it shall be positions and informs the House of Questions of its jurisdiction. And then Article 2 adds up to it and says – that the House can ask the Bureau to submit a report in writing before the session is held. The Constitution of BiH, i.e. Article 5(3)a. It also says that the Presidency is responsible for the conduct of foreign policy, and according to Article 5.3.d. The BiH Constitution says -- that the presidency is also responsible for negotiating the conclusion of BiH's international contracts, cancelling with the parliamentary assembly's consent and ratifying such contracts. This responsibility, which I have just cited as constitutional, has also been repeated in the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of BiH's international contracts, so it is absolutely undeniable that the proposal for a state-level border agreement between BiH and Montenegro is a 40 issue from the BiH presidency's competence, so it is an external political issue and it is above all a matter of contract between the two states, i.e. between BiH and the other state, and therefore there are conditions to refer the requirements in accordance with Article 183. Rules of Procedure. Now, so the legal conditions have been absolutely met, two members of the proposed conclusion merely forming this form from the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure. And what are the reasons? So the reasons were very clear, namely the BiH Council of Ministers, at its 111th session on 06 November 2014 established a proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro and through the ministry, the conclusion was that through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the proposed contract was delivered to the presidency in a further procedure. It has been more than 4 months, but there is no indication that the Presidency has acted at all on this issue, and in this Parliament, the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina was included, one amendment from the DF Club's esteemed MP to the resolution, which is problematicd by other border issues between BiH and Montenegro. So no matter what our views on this particular issue are, we have a very clear foreign policy issue with Montenegro. So there's no absolute dilemma. We all know, so what reactions were various international officials, including in very friendly countries on this issue, and we also know what the move was from Montenegro. Montenegro has refused to send an ambassador who was already ready for Sarajevo, our ambassador from Montenegro has been withdrawn for consultations. So regardless of what opinion any of us have on this issue is absolutely undeniable that we have an open foreign policy issue, I think we can even say that we have an external political problem with Montenegro. Now that the BiH Presidency is responsible for foreign policy management, it is a very vague situation in which the House of Representatives of this Parliament is having a debate on something that obviously causes the opening of this foreign policy issue, not to say the problem without the Presidency saying anything about it, and it is responsible for foreign policy. Now, when the Presidency has already said nothing about it, and the House insists that this debate continues, although the role of the House is when the ratification of international agreements is also very clear, but here is the House insisting from the session to the House, but also its committees to continue this debate on the Sutorina Resolution, to convene a public debate, and then additional, additional consultations, I think it was called the Thematic Session of the Constitutional Commission, which already meant in any case, is not in the Rules of Procedure, then there is a need to ask the Presidency to deliver its position on this issue, and at least the text of the Treaty. And what's particularly unclear is why this is the fourth time we've opened this story, and three times it's already impossible to do it. So, Col. Prodanović tried at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, he was told that he could not ask the Presidency for it, so I don't think he knows what the Rules of Procedure is looking for, he can absolutely ask the Bureau to deliver his views, the Rules of Procedure explicitly say that. So I tried at yesterday's overlapping session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, so it was tried at the Expansive College and every time it stopped trying to get from the Presidency just what they as foreign policy leaders think of this issue. And another thing, just to get us the text of that contract. Because you see the House insists on having a debate, a public debate that included over 500 participants, or observers, cannot remember exactly how many participants over 20 in any case, now the Constitutional Commission should organise a thematic debate, and none of the members of the Constitutional Commission, nor the House of Representatives have officially received the text of the Treaty proposal. An esteemed colleague, Vajzović, said she had found him somewhere, that she had insight into it. Well, that's unthinkable to me, we're state lawmakers, we're having some public, thematic discussions, and we don't have the text of the Treaty on which these discussions are being held. And then someone refuses to ask the Presidency where the text of this Treaty is right now, because the Council of Ministers sent it to them on 06 November 2014, more than 441 months ago, someone refuses to ask the Presidency simply what your position on this foreign policy situation is, and please, hand us that contract proposal because we know that you have, and you haven't done anything about it for more than 4 months. So, no matter what anyone thinks about the Sutorina Resolution, that's basically a side issue, here is the main issue of getting from the presidency what's in the BiH presidency's jurisdiction. That the Presidency of this House, when this House had already decided to hold a debate on this issue that is indeed in the primary jurisdiction of the Presidency, then the Presidency would say what its position was. If they have no attitude to deliver each member's position to us individually, it doesn't matter, let them deliver something to us. And may the text of the proposal be delivered to us in any case, because this question really threatens to escalate very well, we know how seriously it is taken within NATO and circles within the EU. So I really don't see a reason for such resistance, I don't see why this is the fourth time that the Presidency has tried to get a position on what the Presidency thinks about its work, that is, the question that comes from its domain of jurisdiction and the text of the Treaty. How we're going to lead, how the Constitutional Commission is going to organise a thematic session is whether, as you called it, and you don't have the text of the Treaty, no one has officially received this proposal from the Texas Treaty, the text of the Treaty proposal. Unimaginable to hear that someone had insight into it, I'm glad that at least someone had an insight into it, but I think it would be best if we officially got it, and when the Presidency had not already shown itself about this issue that this House would request it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we're not looking for anything other than what the Rules of Procedure absolutely explicitly prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5735	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really don't have anything in principle that we get what's required of the BiH presidency, but I do mind that we deal with this issue at every other session. Namely, I propose to amend the Article 1 of this Conclusion and that it reads this way – It is asked of the BiH Presidency to hold a discussion at the House on the proposed Resolution and its views on the proposal, etc. etc. What is proposed here means that we are having a debate at the next session, and then we are having the same debate again at a new session when we get a proposal from the Constitutional Commission. So, in my view, it is enough for the Bureau to present its views at a session where the debate is held and, of course, deliver all the necessary documentation, I fully agree that this documentation should be delivered to the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission before the hearing of the Constitutional Commission. So, of course, I absolutely support it, but I'm against, I say, we discuss it at every other session of Sutorina and let's put it on one session of the House, to finish the commission's work, and we'll bring what we bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5737	Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5738	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleague for what I think he's going to do, that he's onto a well-intentioned lead anyway, so I don't dispute your good intentions at all, but what we have a problem, I'm primarily against having this discussed at every session. We've already gone too far, now I've been trying to point out that we have an open foreign policy issue, and probably also an external political problem with Montenegro, and we've gone too far. However, it was tried at the previous session of the Constitutional Commission to request this from the Presidency, so you voted against, and it was tried at the Constitutional Commission meeting two days ago, so..., that is, the vice-president who led the session, made it impossible for me to draw that conclusion because it was allegedly not, it did not fall within the agenda point, although the agenda point concerned calling for a thematic session. And now you expect us to hold a thematic session at the Constitutional Commission that you voted to schedule, and that the Presidency's position is not until after that thematic session, because, that is, at the House session, because the House session will, by definition, come after the thematic session. Because the thematic session will be held and then the House will report on the results and the debate at the the thematic session, so we will get the presidency's position only after the the thematic session, so the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission are expected to hold a debate at the the thematic session, to discuss, here to talk to experts who will be invited to this thematic session, and they do not have the text of the proposal for a contract in front of them. It is really illogical for me, and I especially don't see why such resistance to the text of the proposal for a contract and attitude is being asked by the BiH Presidency, and I don't understand it when the Rules of Procedure have prescribed that possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5739	Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5740	Well, here I am, now I am going to ask my colleague Arnaut to do a little analysis of what I said earlier, namely whether we are going to be having a debate at the next session, even if it is about the presidency's position to help put the open question now with Montenegro even more difficult or if we are going to discuss only one session in fact we in some way put the little open question at least until that debate into some other plan. I think that if we are to discuss the presidency's position at the next session, we will have to draw some conclusions, I suppose, that colleagues will propose some conclusions, no matter what they may be deepening these relations now, such as they are between BiH and Montenegro. That's why I'd like to ask, I've given there a proposal to amend Article 2. I repeat, I absolutely support the delivery of that material to all MPs, it does not have to be before the session of the Constitutional Commission, let us immediately deliver it to all MPs. The Commission may invite the Council of Ministers to this thematic session, I do not see why the problem is if we invite representatives of the Council of Ministers, of course they have an obligation to come, members of the Bureau do not have the obligation to come to our meetings, but members of the Council of Ministers have, therefore who is defending us to invite us to this thematic session and to bring out those views. I'm just afraid we'll deepen the problem if we discuss it at this session and the next, and then at another session, nothing else. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5741	Thank you to the representative, Mr. Novaković. A colleague named Hanka Vajzović reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5742	Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out here that it's not, and I guess from other discussions, it's not just about Sutorina, it's about the Treaty, and that's how I understood the demands of the distinguished representative Arnautović, Arnaut pardon. I mean, if it's possible to extend this request to the Council of Ministers which in November, 06.11. So accept such a contract, the question of whether such a contract was complete, what I have is not. The decision was made, it was adopted, and there it is in the Treaty itself – that the data on the stretching of the state border, that they are contained in the following documents, so it says, a textary description of the stretching of the border and the topographic map of the scale of that and that. Do they answer us – did they have such a complete contract when they brought it in, when they adopted it? And in doing so, of course, a lot of ambiguity, the instructions for marking the state border, some kind of technical guidance for making documentation, nothing concrete is said anywhere. There's something in the future after that says we did all this, we delivered this, and then says the documentation from the state border will be made in two original copies etc. There's a lot of uncertainty in this Treaty, and I think it's true, that it would be good for all MPs to get such a contract, and that the Council of Ministers is answering us – did they, on the basis of a draft like this, consider this issue and adopt it or have they completed what is the accompanying documentation to even consider and bring it? That we should not even point out how important this question is, that this is the first Treaty on Borders, and that, of course, it is not just, although it is a controversial Sutorina, but it is not just a matter of focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5743	... Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5744	Thank you, Madam Chairman, first chair. I'll, I'll, I'll welcome everyone here since I'm reporting for the first time, here's a few sentences about the reasons for making this conclusion that I don't agree with in principle. The need to have the Treaty stands, but the reason for this conclusion to come to this, this Treaty on the state border between BiH and Montenegro, and it is required of the Presidency, I do not think it is well-conceived. In no way do I have international relations with BiH, so I will say with Montenegro, not with neighbours and EU and NATO member states, the alliance cannot burden BiH's international relations. And, because it is not only at this point in BiH that does not have certain signed state border contracts alone here in the former Yugoslavia, but also our neighbouring countries and Croatia and Slovenia have not regulated these issues. Therefore, it cannot only burden BiH, not to say that there is no uncertainty and uncertainty to me about the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina, it is clear to me and it has certainty and I hope that this Parliament will focus on the International Court in The Hague and we will have a concrete position. And what I still disagree with here, this Treaty cannot burden BiH's European path. The European path of BiH burdens other things that we have so far either not wanted or could not or did not have the strength to talk about. Here is what Parliament is expected to call on 44 to launch this European path to Bosnia, but by fulfilling the obligations we have in the Roadmap, it is not only through resolving this current, quotes, problem, and this is the Treaty on the Interstate Border between BiH and Montenegro. So when we demand something, we define certain arguments, then we must make sure that it is highlighted by factual arguments, not by what we think might burden this story and that in such a way, we try to speed up the solution to this, to adopt this Treaty on the interstate border of BiH and Montenegro, and make certain mistakes. So we need to be sure what we want when it comes to this Treaty, what line between BiH and how it needs to be defined, and then we need to go into that story, not solve it ad hoc, and then generations after that find some mistakes in such contracts and eventually call us those who took part in it. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5745	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5746	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the future, I will tell me every story from the back row that we are here, just like that second row MPs, since everything that's done is done so that...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5747	Mr. Backović, I apologize for interrupting
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5748	I said I'll start like that, I'll talk about this topic
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5749	So I have to, I can't let you do this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5750	Okay, thank you. I don't want another chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5751	So, thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5752	Because we're really discriminated against, that's what the Convention on Human Rights is, as MPs we're discriminated on, it's the fact that Mrs. or Miss, I apologize, Pandurević. We are in a chain circuit, that's what it's called, introduced into a problem that we can't solve and according to what he was saying, I have to turn to it, Mr. Arnaut, that those whose jurisdiction it is and who, by their jurisdiction, have to give us the impulses so that we can even discuss it, I won't use the word of those... but act like the unsuspecting, the unskilled and the people who don't want to do their jobs. We need to be able to draw conclusions at all in order to bring about something that will be potentially relevant and something that will... towards a solution from those who, whose jurisdiction it is, the elements that we discuss. I spoke here last time, no one or there is yet, and neither does this constitutional committee of ours who should know the Constitution, so I don't even know the law anymore, so I don't know which one, what does it say on the Dayton Peace Agreement? What does it say there? Are we ever going to get what it is... how it's translated and what it is, is it a contract or is it an agreement? Because if it's a contract, we have a completely different legal interpretation. If the agreement we have another legal interpretation, I initiated it last time and as I said, because I'm from the back row, what I'm saying is not relevant it's a factual state, no one takes into consideration. I'm now saying, that's where it says the Dayton Peace Agreement -- peace treaty, that's what it says. We as MPs should have the elements so we can continue this debate otherwise we can make no more pirates, but we'll only have the consequences, we won't have the result. We can be in this circuit from now on, but we're not really going into possession if the country we're bordering with, we want a good neighborhood, we want normal human relations, it's not going to accept this kind of talk about the territory it's been owning for how many decades now. You have forgotten that this country has imposed a law by Pedi Ešdaun, that law needs to be read well, read well, read what it says, because it is also a law that applies to this question, meaning who is in that space and needs to read more. But apparently neither legal experts, nor legal experts, nor constitutional law experts will read the full legislation that we have today, this law is imposed on BiH and it is in force, it is valid, never passed by anyone else, never entityally passed by others. So let the body that is responsible for this reacts first, let the Presidency give us what you're looking for, let what we need so that we can continue to discuss this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5753	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5754	Thank you. I would only remind my esteemed colleague Backović that, and I would really like to see the Dayton Peace Accords, but someone stole it and stole it from the BiH presidency, a thief unknown to the NN. And today it's fashion in this country from institutions to steal, I don't know if someone stole it because it's probably a historical document that through a generation, two of them will have a huge material value, or someone stole it because there's something that didn't suit him, I can only guess, but obviously in the presidency you know very few people sit around and know who was available, the problem is that our prosecution didn't do the job and found the thieves. _________(?) 46 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know, we have, that we don't just have something against the Presidency, he's also a thief in the institutions of the RS, so we're out of the Ministry's Privatisation Treaty "Bosca", so that's what happens to us, unfortunately, in this country. And I still have to say this, dear colleague, as you say you are a second-class MP, I would disagree, our Rules of Procedure gives the same time for discussions and replicas to all MPs, all MPs can have the same initiatives, mandatory agenda points. I think that all of us here are flexible enough and many of the initiatives that have come from the opposition have passed and accepted, at least in this assembly, although it is relatively speaking about position and opposition, and I remember that Mr Bećirović, a colleague of Ahmetović, please behave politely when the chairman does not warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5756	Please, please don't be among yourselves, and respect each other as he discusses, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5757	A colleague, Bećirović, had an initiative on "Kliks" on media intrusions, accepted. So everything that was good and constructive that wasn't so cheap and political will always have the support of even the SDS Club here, and I believe other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5758	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5759	Dear MPs, to accept the initiatives, but I will now tell you some MPs sitting here, I have now listed them in eight working bodies, explain it to me, and there are as many of us as there are, explain to me each and six, five, and one and only in one or not, because this is equal, people with the same rights and same obligations, because this is the House of Representatives, this is the House in which every MP is equal. Then how can one be worth eight? So that's what I was talking about. That and no one gives the College the right to work, because this isn't, it's not the Council of Ministers, it's the committees of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5760	Thank you very much. So, the replica was answered by Mr. Isaković, was it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5761	Thank you, Chairman. 47 I fully support Mr Backović, so we had the formation of committees and delegations, someone is indeed, I don't know by which criteria he chooses in several and commissions and delegations. From this order, so people who were competent on some grounds
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5762	Please it's not
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5763	The replica itself, I apologize, is a replica to Mr. Backović
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5764	is not a agenda item
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5765	The replica is to say that there are people who aren't on any committee, so we're absolutely not standing, we're standing in the same position.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5766	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5767	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5768	So, on behalf of the Colleges, I would like to give my word to Mr Denis Bećirović before I give my word to the public that it has been strictly taken into account when it comes to Parliament's working bodies, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the proportionate representation of political parties, and that error has not been made and cannot be made. The second thing is when ad hoc commissions are elected to do a certain job, because there is power in this Parliament and there is opposition, so there is position and opposition and that is something else entirely. Sir, how many replicas were there? _________(?) One, this is the other. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5770	Dear Chairman, thank you for informing us that this is the case, but then you just have to tell me how and in the regular commissions, they're individual in a few commissions? It's no longer power and opposition, it's the work of this House. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5771	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović, please let's get to the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5772	So, the SDP Club voted to put this on the agenda today, and whether or not to vote and accept this conclusion, I will say in the end because we have a concrete proposal that will depend on our vote on this agenda point. However, in order for nothing to remain unilaterally informed today but to say the full truth should be particularly reminded of the fact, so it is true that we now have an open issue in one part, and most of it is an undeniable border with Montenegro, but it is also true that Montenegro has not resolved its issue, not only in this case with BiH, but also with Croatia and Serbia. That Croatia has not ratified yet more borders with Slovenia, Montenegro, Serbia, etc. and that we are not in this respect any exception in the region or in the wider contexts. The other thing, just in the last month, in the last two months, I've often seen, it seems to me, that we have, inexcusably, accused some of the people of the past of why they bowed down, why they left something behind, etc. Now look at the pressure and what kind of atmosphere it's creating, and then it's no wonder that Đuro Pucar's '46. when it has been pressed by both Kominterna and Informbiro and Staljin and Đilas and who is not in this one-party system, you can imagine what it was like for people to decide when it's like this in the multi-party system in 2015 that you can't talk about facts and facts. Imagine what it was like for Husagi Čišić, who stood up in the Assembly of Yugoslavia and asked MPs in the Yugoslav Assembly – how did you forget to bring a whole nation into the Constitution? The whole congregation is silent. Why was she silent? So here's the thing, it's just that today is a multi-party system, and just imagine what it was like in the one-party system. What are we actually looking for, what are we talking about, what are we talking about? It is a territory that has been part of the Bosnian-Herzegovina state for more than 500 years, a territory recognised with Sutorin at a large International Congress in Berlin. The Yugoslav Assembly called on by the Badinter Commission in Opinion No. 3 directly confirms the borders of the Berlin Congress. The assembly, when it is said AVNOJ, translate that it is the Assembly, because it has also been transformed AVNOJ into the Assembly of Yugoslavia. First Constitution of '46, Constitutional Law of '53, Constitution of '63, Constitution of '74. One after another repeats the fact that the federal state must decide to change borders and that it must be verified at the republican level. Never has the Federal Assembly discussed it, never has a single BiH state body discussed it. Who asked for a return to that territory? Requested by representatives in '45, wanted by people from the BiH Assembly, the BiH Government, the Regional Committee in '47, the President of the Assembly..., not to this day count academics Omer Ibrahimagić and all people and MPs, members of the presidency etc. Why is that a problem if we in BiH are the only ones who say we want a clean bill policy? Who's supposed to interpret law? Well, no individual, no court, no court, no court, no court, no court, no court, no court, no court, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Badinter, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But given that this isn't a topic today, there's likely to be an opportunity when we present all the arguments, it's clear that in the field we have facts and arguments, but it's clear that now it's passed on to the fields of force, lobbying and blackmail. As we move on that field, that's where we're going to need it now, I agree, state wisdom. But for this to be accepted at all today, I'm looking at this text that my colleague Arnaut delivered, so here they have reason to conclude, there's paragraph one, paragraph two. The condition that we of the SDP Club vote is that this 49 paragraph number two is completely deleted, that you say that you agree and that we have the debate as you wish, because this second conclusion prejudges certain things, and there is fellow Sokolović also quite right. So, we're not running away from the debate, we think it's something we need to discuss, that there's no need to make it any more difficult, we have a million and other questions that we have to deal with. In the end, we'll have to take responsibility. We have heard a number of experts and... counter argumentation, there will probably be more, but in the end the Presidency, and this Parliament must also be manifested in its capacity. So here's what I think our proposal to the SBB Club is clear and it's up to them to make our statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5773	Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5774	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, one more time. I am looking forward to this strong position by my colleagues from the SDP, but to discuss this issue seriously, a serious argument is also needed and in this sense a detailed and quality explanation and the extraction of any part of that argument changes the context of what it refers to. I therefore thank my colleagues for their good will and will and willingness to support this proposal, but we will not give up the whole Texas as provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5775	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on, so I've concluded the debate, but here you are, Mr. Arnaut, here you go, we won't, we'll conclude after you debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5776	Thank you, I really pressed, here's a very short one anyway. Just what Mr. Novaković suggested, here I am now able to get and see. The proposal is to amend the first one to say -- it is asked by the BiH presidency to hold a debate at the House on the proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro, and to inform the House of current status. So that's what you see, however, the problem is that business is not possible. Because the conclusion in its heading says – in accordance with Article 183. Rules of Procedure. And what you're looking for is actually based on Article 182 paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure, as the member and the position say - at the sessions that discuss the draft laws proposed by the BiH presidency or on which issues from the BiH presidency are addressed, must be attended by at least one member of the presidency. So what you're proposing, I, and again, I understand the good intentions, but what you're proposing is that we can't even or should not ask the Presidency, because on the basis of Article 182(2) of the Treaty debate, the Presidency will have to come. And the purpose of our conclusion is not to let the Presidency do what the Rules of Procedure has to do when that debate happens. The purpose of our conclusion is that before discussions on these 50 issues are continued, which are caused by foreign-political issues for BiH, the Presidency should deliver its position and text of the Treaty. And what you're proposing, if you allow me to do it with the best of intentions, is not necessary because, according to Article 182, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, the Bureau will have to do what you suggest when the debate comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5777	The debate is closed now. We're going to paragraph 13, paragraph 14. Ad. 14. Granting consent for ratification of the Loan Agreement (Delivery for the Development Policy of the Business Ambience) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-362/15, dated 10.03.2015. Sir, we're not going to merge here, there are two points anyway, and there are requests for discussion and demands not to merge. Mr. Mladen Bosić, the vice president is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5779	This Agreement was on the Foreign Policy Commission, as well as all credit agreements and I voted against this Agreement although I must say that the loan that is received is extremely favourable and that is not at all why I was against it, but the fact that it is a loan for a development policy of a $37.400,000, I think. I don't know if there's even a representative of the Ministry of Finance present at all? No, there's no one from the Ministry of Finance when we're talking about agreements that are millions of dollars. Asking the representative of the Ministry of Finance – what will this Agreement be used for? It turns out it is used to pass laws that need to improve the business environment in BiH, at different levels. Turns out 37,400,000 dollars should be taken as a loan to make some laws that we do anyway. Afterwards, in the debate, the explanation of the Ministry of Finance's representatives was that it was not actually a loan for it, but that it was a loan to patch up budget gaps and that those who agreed on this loan knew it. And from that, the fact that we should vote for something that is known in advance is not the purpose of what is written here. I wish someone from the finance ministry was here, because as someone commented on the foreign policy commission, this could be called money laundering. I remain in that, it would be no problem if the agreement had been concluded and the proposed loan agreement here to support BiH budgets with conditions concerning improving the business environment, and then it would be something that has logic and what the money will really be used for. So this is how we got an explanation that it was a clean loan, a favourable loan to patch up budget gaps that were created in budgets at all levels. And I'm staying in my position that I don't want to raise my hand for something that I know in advance is a false statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5780	Thank you very much. 51 Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5781	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your support for my discussion on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5782	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the argument if no one answers the word. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Balakac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-377/15, from 13.03.2015. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Amir Fazlić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5784	Here, Mr. President, let me just explain a little bit, unlike this case under point 14, here we have a clean credit line relating to infrastructure projects, where it's a favourable loan and favourable grand funds. So, you get some grand funds, and it's really a life issue for the citizens of Gradac Municipality, where you solve a large part of the municipality, somewhere around 3,500 households, which has a water supply problem and solves the collector that exists, which has some problems in its operation and is located in an industrial zone, where it works somewhere between 7,000 and 8,000 people, because the industrial zone has a trend of expansion. Otherwise, Gradačac in that part is really in business, has good references and is making good progress, so he is also creditworthy to repay these funds. All of these procedures have passed certain levels, from the Municipality of Canton, the Federation, the Presidency, so not here, every slowdown leads to a problem of project realization, because it's also time to realize this project. So I would ask my colleagues to really support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5785	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5786	Without, of course, wanting to slow down, i.e. support what is meant to help the local community, local self-government and help the rest of the population, when it comes to the infrastructure segment. But I'm going to say a few words about the use of those funds that you say are favourable. I first heard there was a favourable loan. Credits don't exist because you always pay back more than you get. So there's no advantage, there's no advantage. It's a good thing we make our own money and invest. Since we can't make that money, we're in credit and we say we'll be in debt for 15 million and we'll be back 18. That's a good thing. So there's no such thing as a favor. Or if someone gives you money and you give it back to him, chief. But there's very little or no such. Or if someone presents you, as the Mađar have given us, this training they do, Parliamentarians, so much and so much, and no one will add that out of these pairs is actually paid for by those who sit there and that year all of them actually wrote that they gave us and then took them away. Around the plumbing, I wish the funds were targeted and really implemented for the projects they're being taken for. So I'll start from a long time ago, Mr. Džaferović and I were together in the Federation Parliament, when I tried repeatedly to challenge the project and borrowing credit, here's a colleague here next to me, the buzmian plumbing, claiming it was a robbery. Something that's impossible and impossible, and then I proved to you that the assistant minister signed the contract with him and made the project and he's not in Bosnia today, he's got no money, he's not working, and we're getting the money back. That man's gone. He now lives happily, by means of funds he founded a company in another country that we want to argue with about Sutorina and there is now a builder. A purification of water in Bihac, which is ambelive, amazing what the Englez would say. So contracts signed, all done, advances given but no purification. Credit taken and state in charge. Watering Brcko, something like Tuzli Zenon system. It's not gonna be a classic, it's gonna be modern, it's gonna be a zenon, it's gonna be more expensive and it's not gonna be a five million advance. Says the Austrian firm, after the advance was transferred, I have to tell you this, the Austrian firm went bankrupt after the advance was transferred.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5787	Please, give it around this particular contract if you have anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5788	I really want to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5789	We're talking about watering the Gradačac, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5790	We are in debt, we need to find mechanisms to control the use of these funds, not to say the country of origin of the funds is, or the origin of the IMF, the World Bank, the European Bank, Austria, and it has to be a company from Austria. The fact that she's collecting $5 million doesn't matter, but it has to be her. And don't let Brcko happen to us, Bužim that we don't, that you know, I have these projects for Banja Luka, Prijedor, Bijeljina, I'll list it for you. That's something that's amazing. We've put this people to death, the projects aren't done, the projects aren't finished, the projects will never be completed, the money will have to be returned. 53 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5791	Mr. Nenad Lalić, replica. Here you go, mistake, Mr. jasmin. Come on, please nice, so. Mr. jasmin Emrić, replica. Give me a brief, focus on the Treaty specifically, on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5792	I have to correct my colleague Backović for the reason that I was the head of the Municipality for eight years in Buzim and the resolved problem that was present in the water management. However, the water supply system is in operation and the water supply of Buži has been resolved by credit funds, and there are problems in these earlier mandates, but a recovery of the source and the water system is in operation. Of course, don't slow down the technical problems that were during the execution, and I'll let the authorities handle it, that part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5793	Thank you very much. Mr. Backović, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5794	Dear colleague, I will communicate more easily with you when I speak in numbers. So I don't want the exact number of the loan, but if a million-dollar loan was granted, then you had to be in charge of another million to take care of it. Am I right?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-25-0.u5795	I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. That way we've exhausted the debate on all the agenda points and I invite you here at 1400 hours to come. I'm scheduled to vote on agenda points at 1400 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We move to a vote, therefore, for the 9th session of the House of Representatives. We vote first on the record, we adopt the 8th session minutes, paragraph 1. - The adoption of the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 votes for, no problem, no abstentions. I find that we unanimously adopted the record. 54 We are going to point 3. This is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Here is a 22 for, 9 against, no abstentions, no enough entity majority from the RS entity. Consensus later, is it? Later, okay. Let's go to point 4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, which was submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11/02/2015, reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the draft law prohibiting the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. "We vote on the initiative in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 27 for, 5 against. There is no 2/3 of the RS entity, from which last time there was no 1/3, so we can realize that this initiative was adopted. Moving to point 5. - Proposal for a decision on the amount of tv tax, Proposer: Transport and Communications Commission. We vote on the adoption of the motion for a decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. At the request of the president of the HDZ Club, the vote is repeated. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. 25 votes for, 8 against, no abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from the RS entity. Consensus later, is it? Later, okay. So, it fits later. We are going to item 6. Is that so to the secretary, - Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, Proposer: Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We vote on the adoption of the Decision, i.e. the appointment of Đorđ Krčmar, Borjana Krišto and Jasmin Emrić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 10 against, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that Đorđe Krčmar, Borjana Krišto and Jasmin Emrić were elected to this Commission in front of the House of Representatives. We're going to point 7. - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three 55 members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. If he does not receive support from this proposal, he will go to vote on the other proposals that are there. So we vote on the College's proposal, so the College should be Mensura Beganović, Nenad Lalić and Nikola Lovrinović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 24 for, 7 against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that in this Interim Joint Commission, we have chosen both homes in front of our House Mrs. Mensura Beganović, Mr. Nenad Lalić and Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. We move to item 8 of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. So, just like worse, we are voting on Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović's election, Momčilo Novaković and Borjana Krišto, as a proposal from the College. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 9 against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have chosen Mr Šemsudin Mehmedović, Momčilo Novaković and Borjana Krišto in this Interim Joint Commission. We are going to item 9 of the agenda - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. And here's the proposer of the College, by the way, that there's been a change. So here, instead of Hanka Vajzović, should stand Nermina Kapetanović. So, we are voting on a proposal from the College where Nermina Kapetanović, Borislav Bojić and Monika Tomić are. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 9 against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, as far as I could see, is. I find that in this Interim Joint Commission we have chosen Mrs Nermina Kapetanović, Mr Borislav Bojić and Mrs Monika Tomić. Let's go to point 10. - Proposal for a decision to appoint a Commission to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. And here is the predniser of the College, while there has been a change here, instead of Mr. Hazim Rančić, we should be standing Hanka Vajzović, so we vote on Hanka Vajzović, Aleksandra Pandurević and Borjana Krišto. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 9 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. 56 I agree that we have chosen Mrs Hanka Vajzović, Mrs Aleksandra Pandurević and Mrs Borjana Krišto at the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Combating Corruption in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Point 11. - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We vote on the adoption of the conclusion, i.e. the appointment of MPs Salke Sokolović, Đorđ Krčmar and Vjekoslav Bevanda, as a proposal from the College. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Just focus on the vote, please. 23 for, 9 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I understand that we have chosen Mr Salko Sokolović, Mr Đorđe Krčmar and Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda in this Interim Joint Commission. Point 12. - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the three Ombudsmans for human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, that is, the College for these names. So, we are voting on the adoption of the conclusion, i.e. the appointment of the College proposal, MPs Safer Demirović, Borislav Bojić and Nikola Lovrinović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 9 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that in this Interim Joint Commission in front of our House we have elected Mr. Safer Demirović, Mr. Borislav Bojić and Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Point 13 of the agenda - Proposal for a conclusion on the request to the BiH presidency to inform the House about issues related to the proposal for a state border agreement between BiH and Montenegro. Proposed MPs are from the SBB Club. Here was an amendment, or amendment from Mr. Momčilo Novaković, which informed me before the start of the vote, that he had given up the amendment. We therefore vote on the SBB proposal in its original form. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 for, 16 against, 1 abstention. I find that the SBB's proposal, therefore their conclusion, has not received general support from the Predator's House. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Member Hanka Vajzović, related to this item of the agenda. He therefore proposes to adopt a conclusion that would, if I understood it so, ask for answers to questions as to whether the Council of Ministers would be able to consider and accept 6.11. In 2014, the border treaty between BiH and Montenegro, the Council of Ministers delivered a complete follow-up to the Treaty, a textual description of the stretching of the 1st and topographic 57 cards with a line drawn, Appendix 2. Those Annexes are an integral part of the Treaty of Article 2. It's a contract. So, we're required by the Council of Ministers, to be delivered to us by the Council of Ministers. Isn't that right, Mrs. Vajzović? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have adopted the conclusion of the Mrs., the proposal of Mrs. Hanka Vajzović's conclusion. That's how we ended this agenda. So we have point 14. - Giving consent to ratification, - Is it a separate vote? Yes, it is. The loan agreement (A loan for the development policy of the business environment) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the number described in the agenda. So we're voting separately. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 16 against, 1 abstention, so there's no general majority. And this agreement didn't get approval for ratification. Let's go to point 15. - Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (The Gradac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, no objection, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've given consent. This is how we ended up and exhausted today's session agenda. The next session is April 8th. I take advantage of the opportunity at the end of the session, since we will have a session so, only on 8 April of the next session, so in the meantime it will be Easter and I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all the believers of the Catholic religion on the coming Easter holiday. Thank you, today's session is over. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
