ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, respected delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, MPs at the House of Representatives of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the BiH Embassy and international organisations, members of the Central Election Commission, respected guests and representatives of the public information funds, I warmly welcome you and open a constitutive session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Article 2(3) The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have been established that until the chairman-in-Office of the first session is elected, the oldest elected or oldest elected delegate shall be chaired as interim chair. As you can see, it's me, Sredoje Nović, for those who don't know my name and name. I warmly congratulate the present delegates on the election of this responsible duty and want successful work in the upcoming four-year term. The BiH Central Election Commission has submitted a decision to confirm the results of the last elections and to grant mandates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from Republika Srpska 06-107-1106714, since 19.12.2014 "The Official Messenger of BiH", No 10014 and the Decision to confirm the results of the last elections and to assign the mandate to the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of BiH No. 06-7-1-2715, since 22.01.2015 "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 515. Let me read to you a list of delegates who, based on the above-mentioned decisions of the Central Election Commission of BiH, will perform the duties of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the next term. I would remind you that according to the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, 15 delegates are elected to this House, 10 delegates from the Federation of BiH territory and 5 delegates from Republika Srpska territory. In the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are appointed the following delegates from the Federation of BiH Delegates from the Bosniak people Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Safet Softić, Mr Sead Kadić, Mr Fahrudin Radončić and Mr Sifet Hodžić. Delegations from the Croatian people Mr Bariša Čolak, Mrs Ljilja Zovko, Mrs Zdenka Džambas, Mr Mario Karamatić, Mr Martin Raguž. 2 From Republika Srpska Delegates from the Serbian people Mr. Ognjen Tadić, Mr. Darko Babalj, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, Mr. Dragutin Rodić and Mr. Sredoje Nović. I would remind you of the provisions of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure, which are read by the delegates, assume the duty of joint giving and the individual signing of a solemn declaration. You've been given the text of your solemn statement from the Home Service. I ask you to sign and return it to the office after making your solemn statement. I ask you now to stand up and join us together in giving a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u144	I invite you to repeat your words and I will read the solemn statement. I commit myself to knowingly perform my duties, respecting the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u145	I commit myself to knowingly perform my duties, respecting the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u146	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, DELEGATES fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. DELEGATEs and protects the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u150	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I congratulate all the delegates on... an honorable and responsible duty. I welcome all present. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held at a session today, decided to elect a delegate, Halid Genjac, as the deputy chairman of the Bosniak People's Delegations Club, to be the chairman of the Bosniak People's delegation, Sifet Hodžić. Signed by members of the Bosniak People's Club: Halid Genjac, Sead Kadić, Safet Softić, Fahrudin Radončić and Sifet Hodžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u151	Thank you. I find that Mr Halid Genjac has been appointed the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club and Deputy Chairman of the Bosniak People's Club Mr. Sifet Hodžić. I would like to ask a representative of the Croatian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-president of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u152	...the president. Here, I also want to take this opportunity to congratulate all elected envoys and envoys from the heart and wish us all a successful work in this term together. The Croatian People's Envoys' Club held a session this morning and Ljilja Zovko was elected president and Vice President Zdenko Džambas. So here, we have two ladies to run our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u153	Thank you. I find that Mrs Ljilja Zovko has been appointed the chairman of the Croatian People's Club and the vice-chair of the Croatian People's Club Mrs Zdenka Džambas. I would now like to ask the representative of the Serbian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and deputy chairman of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on behalf of the Serbian People's Club and on behalf of all the chosen ones. The Serbian people's delegates' club chose Mr. Sredoja Nović as president and Deputy Mr. Dragutin Rodić. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u155	Thank you. I find that Mr Dragutin Rodić was appointed the chairman of the Serbian People's Nović, and that he was appointed vice-president of the Serbian People's Club. After the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the people's clubs in the House of Nations, we move to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad. 2. Selection of the chairperson, first and second vice-president of the House of Nationals Let me remind you of the provisions of Article 7. Rules of Procedure relating to the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of this House. Article 7. Article 1 After the establishment of the Dom people's clubs among their members is elected by one representative from each constituent nation to perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Speakers. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. Attitude. 2. Every club of people and every delegate has the right to propose a candidate for all duties. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall be voted on. If there are more candidates for one place, the first vote is for the candidate proposed by the club of the people. Article 3 If no candidate has received the required majority from more than one place, or if they have received the same number of votes, the vote is repeated for the two candidates who received the most or the same number of votes. Item 4. The election decision shall be made in a manner established for the House's decision. In the event of an agreement, the alignment will be carried out by the chairman of the clubs of the people. If the alignment fails, the vote is repeated. Item 5. If no candidate has received the required majority of the vote, it is repeated as a whole. Allow me to remind you of the provisions of Articles 75 and 76 before proposing candidates. Rules of Procedure. Article 75. Article 1 All decisions in the House are made by majority the votes of those present and voting. Article 2 The delegates will make every effort to include at least 13 votes of delegates from the territory of each entity. 6 Item 3. If most votes do not include 13 votes from the territory of each entity chairing the House and its deputies will meet as a commission and try to secure agreement within three days of the vote. Item 4. If that fails, the majority of the votes cast by those present and who vote on the condition that the votes against them do not contain 23 or more votes of delegates elected from each entity. Article 76. Article 1 If most votes do not contain 13 votes from the territory of each entity at home, they will work as a commission to reach agreement within three days. Article 2 If the Chair of the House and the Vice-President of the House achieves the consent of Article 75(3) of this Rules of Procedure, the relevant decision of the House shall be deemed to be adopted and the House shall be informed accordingly. Exceptionally from the provisions of Rule 19 of this Rules of Procedure, consensus shall be reached by a consensus of the Chair of the House and of the Vice-President. Article 3 If the College of the House fails to reach agreement, the majority of the total number of delegates present and voting on the condition that the votes against them do not contain 23 or more votes of delegates elected from each entity. Item 4. In the event that there is no quorum, and if, after a break, the chairman of the House determines or vote shows that there is still no quorum to consider the issue is postponed for the next session. Item 5. If the delegate does not declare himself against, against or refrain from the vote and is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he is considered to be abstention. Before we join the submission of the proposal and the chairman, the first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples, I would like to remind you that Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, has been appointed from the Bosniak people. For the first deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Mrs Borjana Krišto of the Croatian people was appointed. The second deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was appointed Mr Mladen Bosić of the Serb people's order. In accordance with Article 7(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. In view of Article 7(2), each club of the people as well as any delegate shall have the right to propose a candidate for the chairman, or vice-president of the House of Peoples. First, we should propose a candidate for the presidency of the House of People, and in this case, the presidency belongs to the candidate of the Croatian or Serbian people. Then we propose the first deputy chairman of the Bosniak or Serb people's order, and then the second deputy chairman of the Croatian, or Bosniak people's order. I would like to remind you that Article 22 is Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are provided for the following. The home speaker automatically rotates on the duty without voting every 8 months starting with the election day of the chairman. 7 And now I ask the chairman of the Club from the ranks of the Croatian or Serbian people to propose a candidate for the People's House of Speakers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u157	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u158	Here, dear delegate, Mr. Halid Genjac wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u159	Thank you. On behalf of the Bosniak People's Delegation Club in accordance with Article 73(1), I request a 15-minute break because of the necessary additional consultations. It means 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u160	Thank you. We're finding that we're giving a break by 12:10. [[PAUZA]] We continue our work and call upon the distinguished delegate, Mr. Genjac, to address us.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u162	Thank you. So, we had a break and after the break we propose the following conclusion: - Due to the necessary additional consultations, the session will be postponed. The sequel will take place in the next 15 days according to a term agreed by the club chairman and the temporary chairman of the House. Please put this conclusion to the vote. This is, therefore, a proposal for a conclusion - a session, period is delayed, and the session will continue in the next 15 days in a time that will be set exactly by the chair of the clubs together with the temporary chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-0.u163	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm putting to the vote the conclusion of Mr. Halid Genjac's proposal. I ask the professional service that you can hold the vote now. Thank you very much. ___________(?) 8 [[no microphone turned on]] Are you asking for a repeat vote? I'd like to ask the professional service to repeat the vote. Vote now. The vote is over. I find there are 15 delegates present. For 14, no one, abstention 1. Out of that from the Federation of BiH for 9, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 5 for, versus and abstentioned, no. So we realize that the session will continue in the next 15 days. Thank you very much. Session aborted at 12:20 p.m.
