ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u776	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, and representatives of the media. Representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session, were also invited to attend the session. The session is attended by 14 envoys, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serb people. Ambassador Fahrudin Radončić is not able to attend today's session for justified reasons. Here comes the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so we welcome him. As indicated in your call for today’s session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed for the envoys to ask questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to the 9th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking questions in the oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1), The Rules of Procedure have submitted an announcement to ask envoy questions in oral form: Ambassador Sredoje Nović – to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Security of BiH; Envoy Nebojša Radmanović – to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security of BiH; Ambassador Dragutin Rodić – to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić; Ambassador Mario Karamatić – to the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Mr Slavko Matanović. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the announcement were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, and in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. 2 We can now begin by asking oral questions and by giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u777	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow delegates, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am asking the rules of procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly the following delegate question. At the 117th session, held on 12 January 2015, the BiH Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Security to revise the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission for the application of the programme for the protection of witnesses in order to satisfy the national structure of the proposed members of the Commission. The revised decision satisfied the national structure of Bosniak and Croatian peoples but not Serbian. – Why is the decision not in line with the national structure of the constituent peoples, that is why there are no members of the Serb people in the Commission for the application of the witness protection programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u778	Minister, go ahead. Minister of Security of BiH, Mr Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u779	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the College, respected delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I would answer this parliamentary question in a way that is extremely important and important to the Commission that participates directly in the processing of the most difficult perpetrators of criminal offences. So, I would not now speak and explain to you the length and extent of witness protection is important when the witness meets the conditions to be protected. So it can change identity, it can change residence, it can provide him with a special place of residence, we can go with other countries, we have a series of bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of protected witnesses, etc. Many criminal proceedings, even at the stage, when they are still in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and before the BiH Court, depend literally on a protected witness, in the sense that the crime will be proven or not. In this regard, we were obliged to appoint, so to speak, the Commission for the application of the Witness Protection Programme, which approves that one witness will enter into a witness protection programme either on a specific or already on a longer period of time, and after that programme expires, then the same Commission appreciates and may interrupt its programme or extend the programme. We have, in accordance with an even earlier assembly, therefore, of the Council of Ministers prior to us, requested that the Court and, the Commission be composed of three representatives, one representative of the Court of Justice, one representative of the Tužilaštv's Office and acting as head of the Witness Protection Department at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. So, in fact, two candidates were to be proposed, this one by law already predetermined, etc. and we, or earlier, have received a proposal from the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office in which no national balance has been provided between these three members of the Commission. Afterwards, when we, after this call, worked several times and begged both the Court and the D.A. to change or to deliver more candidates, let me say, on our request. This was changed by the Court of Justice of BiH after several of its appointments, the Prosecutor's Office did not want it, because 3 felt that a certain person of that capacity had to be that person and that person, so we got in that commission, so according to the national structure, when we later appointed one Bošnjak, one Hrvat and one of the others. And why did we do that? Because a certain number of witnesses expired the protection programme and the people were neither them nor their families in the protection programme. And we came to a situation or to discover these protected witnesses, to get them out of the program that they have no form of protection, to be threatened by a number of criminal proceedings before the court, and I am personally a minister, here to say, and the Council of Ministers confirmed that, at that point, he thought it was more important to have this Commission, because I appreciate that this Commission, above all, is important to be a professional commission, to say from one, to the legal, judicial aspect of that decision in terms of witness protection. But this Commission, I don't know how much now, to some extent protected witnesses, will be the national structure of these protected witnesses, in order to treat them in a certain way, and I say that at that point, and I've got to tell you five or six letters, I have them downstairs in my office, where I'm asked by families of protected witnesses that they've fallen out of the program, that they're out there in some country, that nobody's paying an apartment, etc., that I'm not talking now, because it's quite one matter that needs to be more, to say, so confidential or conspirative character. And then simply to get out of that situation in any way I suggested. I don't have the tools and I have no way of making someone name someone else, etc. And the law specifically states that on the prosecution's proposal, that is, we appoint the court. It was my only motive to sort of save the whole situation, that the entire witness protection program didn't fall apart, don't get in the way of many criminal acts, primarily when it comes to war crimes and some other serious crimes in the field of organised crime. And I say, only motivated by this reason did I propose to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers adopted such a decision. Thank you. If necessary in writing, I may also deliver in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u780	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is Ambassador Nović satisfied with the offer of an answer? Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u781	Well, you know, it would be very cynical of me to say that I'm satisfied and that these countries don't have any instruments to satisfy the national structure of an important commission. It's tragic what I heard today, I must tell you. The Council of Ministers has no right to do so, however it may be, to leave out of the commission of a member of the constituent people. I understand all that the Honorable Minister has said, and I appreciate the importance that this Commission has. That's why, which is regulated in law, I insist. Because of this importance, because we know who they are, we don't know personally, but protected witnesses are mostly Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin. The rest of you, I don't want to talk as much as I don't disrespect anyone. It's inadmissible. When we made the Witness Protection Act, I remember very well the debate in this House, in the second session, at the House of Representatives, where even at that time there were proposals to say, the chief prosecutor, the president of the court, or head of the Department of Witness Protection in the SIPA, and then he vigorously opposed the House, Parliament opposed such solutions and said no, no, because it may occur with circumstances that at that time cannot respect the national structure. 4 I know that it is at that session, that the representatives of the Croatian people then insisted that at all costs the representative of the Croatian people be put in that Commission and put in it. And I can't accept the explanation that you point out that's the reason to speed it up. The chief prosecutor, i.e. if only in this country trusts the chief prosecutor, whoever's name is, and not in dozens of prosecutors working in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, then the end of this Bosnia and Herzegovina and democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is. I insist, and I pray simply, and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and you as Minister of Resistance, that this should be made an urgent change in the ER. Exactly why, and while I was in SIPA, I know what witness protection means. Don't mind the illusions that it's irrelevant to have a representative of the Serbian people there. It's not quite as simple as many people seem when a man comes who needs to do all this, has this protection, right, so he talks to those big professionals. So where do they get lucky that this is the land of those great professionals and that they're no longer looking at the national structure? We've overcome that once, and I think it's inadmissible not to make it right in the Council of Ministers. If this House is in charge, I ask that a conclusion be reached in this regard and that the House of Peoples asks the Council of Ministers to resolve the issue in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u782	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I give the word to the envoy, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u783	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the chairman, members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman. My question is addressed to this last one, so the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security of BiH. Here is what it says: – Has the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, analysed the situation of the attack on Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, made any information and was it delivered to? Has it been established whether there have been failures in the work of the agencies that provided the meeting, and if so, who is responsible and have the measures taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u784	Thank you. Who's going to answer? Minister Mektić. Here you go, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u785	Thanks again. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I can immediately say that the Council of Ministers has analyzed the situation of the attack on the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vučić. And in a way that he analysed, that immediately after that attack he called an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers in which I, as Minister, informed the Council of initial knowledge and information that I had had from the scene of the incident in Potocari and that the Council of Ministers had condemned the attack and that we were most strongly, to say so, condemned the attack and that the Council of Ministers at that extraordinary session decided that the Ministry of Security would form a special information on the event, with a proposal for concrete measures and actions in terms of determining the circumstances under which it happened, measures and actions to further warn such events, and in terms of identifying an individual, personal responsibility of certain individuals who bear responsibility for all failures. I have to say that in that Inforamation that we created, and we made it based on the data collected from all the police agencies that participated in the security of that rally, from the state and from the entity level, and we sublimed it and made it one complete, quite extensive information about the whole event, and that we ultimately specifically taxed the failures of certain security, or police agencies, when it comes to responsibility for this event. I must say, this information has been adopted at the Council of Ministers and that it is precisely the individual responsibility of individuals and agencies in terms of taking certain measures before the event itself, so in planning measures not to do so, on the very day of the events that occurred after that. I wouldn't now that, there's no need to list all these tax-listed gaps here, if there's a need and if this House asks me to forward this information to you, it's adopted at the House of Peoples. And let me just say, that we have established and established that the most responsible Police Agency and the most failures had a Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities of BiH, when it came to planning, since the head of the Agency was and the head of the Staff for Security of the overall and event, and in part that the State Agency for Investigation and Protection was responsible, which was part of its operational capacity, did not put the police into office of the Staff, or in the function of providing the persons who were there in the status of international protection. So, the information concrete, detailed, Council of Ministers met and, on the basis of which the Council of Ministers accepted such information, I evaluated, as Minister, that the Director of the Agency, or the Directorate for Co-ordination of Police Authorities and as Chief of Staff who co-ordinated, had planned all measures related to the security of the meeting, bearing, so to speak, sufficient quantum of responsibility, so I, through the Independent Police Committee, in terms of responsibility and proposed that it be removed. I gave a concrete initiative, the Independent Committee received this initiative, called a meeting of the Independent Committee, analysed all that and the Information I provided to them, and did not make a decision on the replacement of the Director of the Agency, making it possible for me to determine further responsibility exhausted. Thank you. If necessary, I may, upon request of the House, provide you and the Information, provide you with a written reply and if you need any further questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u786	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is the envoy satisfied with the offer of an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u787	Well, of course I'm not happy. Wasn't it normal for this House to get that information? It's been two months, Mr. Minister. This is, should this Dom meet every day and ask for something from the Council of Ministers which is a major interstate problem? And we've already agreed to this session of this House. And that today, two months after what happened, we hear what the minister is talking about. Apparently, at least as we heard it now, it's all out of the picture and it's all brought to an end, but nothing's finished. And it's not over. The public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, in the environment does not know and hears this for the first time that there has been a director of the Police Body Coordination Directorate and that this is not over. So this is one complete ineffectiveness of the 6 systems we have, including the Council of Ministers, ways and others, and not just waiting for the Independent Committee. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that this House be given the Information, that the Council of Ministers be appointed if there are any new things here to add information to us, to oblige the Council of Ministers to follow this to the end. Well, responsibility, it's not enough to say someone's responsible, because it doesn't mean anything. It has to end in some way. It's got to be the one who's responsible with the sanctions. And I don't believe it, here I am now speaking for myself, that only one man is responsible. There's a lot more to it, but here's the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u788	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Now it's the envoy, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u789	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the next delegate question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. As we know from the earlier period, one of the key conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina to send a credible application for full EU membership is the adoption of a coordination mechanism, which means that all policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be harmonised and have the same goal in the integration process in the EU and that they can be effectively implemented. Also, following the adoption of a statement on the principles of Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU accession, which reached the widest possible consensus, one of the key issues remains the coordination mechanism. I believe that the harmonised views of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the coordination mechanism can answer many of the questions that stand before Bosnia and Herzegovina in the coming period. I will citiraći a part of the statement "At the shortest possible time, an effective and effective coordination mechanism will be established for the institutions of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the EU accession process". How was the declaration adopted in February of this year, and today is September, I am interested – How long has it been since the harmonisation of the coordination mechanism and when can it be expected to begin applying the same mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u790	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u791	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected media and guests, I welcome you all very well and wish you the successful work of today's session. 7 I thank the honourable representative for his question. Of course, it would be too ambitious to say that the coordination mechanism is a key condition for submitting an application for membership, but in any case it is a very important instrument for taking over the EU acquis and defining the procedures, modes and ways within which Bosnia and Herzegovina, within its constitutional structure, will adopt EU directives and acquis in a uniform and identical manner. That is why the sea coordination mechanism will also be based on two very important principles, so the principle of respect for the dominant constitutional jurisdiction. And given the numerous information on the coordination mechanism and participation of different levels of government within the coordination mechanism, I just want to make it clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina has exclusive constitutional competencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Within Bosnia and Herzegovina, exclusive constitutional competencies have entities and exclusive constitutional competences in certain areas have cantons. We will not enter further relations that there are shared powers within the Federation, etc. Therefore, each of these levels of government will be in charge of transposing at one point the EU acquis within its laws and within the regulatory framework for which it is responsible. This will result in important involvement of all levels of government and important coordination between these levels of government. Another important principle is the issue of efficiency of the coordination mechanism. So, we, and this is what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina need first of all to know, we do not negotiate with the EU in a way that we have the right and the possibility to amend their directives and their acquis, as it is often presented in public. We are only talking with the EU about the time frames and ways in which we will take over the EU acquis and transpose it into our regulatory legislative framework in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there are two important things, there are two key principles that are very important. It has to be at the same time and it has to be uniform. So one level of government cannot take over the legal gain in its own way, and another level of government in its own way. It must be simultaneously, at the same time and unanimously taken over, transposed into the legislative framework, and at the same time it must start to work on its implementation and its implementation. It is therefore important to create models within the coordination mechanism to enable all those who have the dominant constitutional jurisdiction to participate, but will prevent any targeted or intentional obstructions of such processes. I must say that within co-operation on this issue, the Council of Ministers and two entity governments, we have made very significant steps towards reaching a final agreement. There is one serious material on which we base our further work. It must, of course, be completed with several aspects, in particular in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that has entered into force and which provides for the formation of certain bodies and specifies their composition, in order to continue good co-operation between the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which must bring its views into line first, but speak with the EU in one voice. And for this reason, the Stabilisation and Association Council, which forms Bosnia and Herzegovina, will speak with our pandas in the EU with one vote on these issues. And nature, the coordination mechanism must achieve a maximum level of its passivity, efficiency within the decision-making process and the taking of the EU acquis. If such good co-operation continues, I am optimistic that we will very quickly coordinate the existing basic material of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that within the procedure we will achieve the possibility of achieving a high degree of efficiency of the mechanism and remove all possible obstructions, and of course, when such an arrangement is reached at Council of Ministers and two entity governments, this mechanism will be published, body formed and they will enter into force and Bosnia and Herzegovina will have a vertical process of coordinating the takeover... If, of course, unargumented fears or fears arise again that someone within such a coordination mechanism can either cheat, or revote, or take over some jurisdiction, 8 then of course we are reopening the field of additional harmonisation and this process can take longer than we would want at this point. So, I am still optimistic, at least on the basis of the talks so far held, that the Council of Ministers with two entity governments will very, very quickly reach agreement on the text of the coordination mechanism, so that it will then be adopted at the level of the three governments, will be announced, of course, to form bodies that foresee this coordination mechanism and, of course, to complete the procedure, so that all the instruments and institutions that are going to work on it, will put into office the takeover of the EU acquis. I must say, it will be a very, very demanding process. We all need to know, individual working groups, given the complexity of the jobs they will be doing, will have 60, or 70, or 80 members of the task force, and of course there must be models to prevent any obstruction of the work of such working groups. If this model is based exclusively on models that everyone must attend at all times and that the full consensus of all those in the working group must be achieved, then of course it can be a problem. That is why we are working on models by which, I repeat, we will respect the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, constitutional jurisdiction, the participation of all authorised and responsible institutions, but at the same time we must achieve the necessary level of efficiency, because we are talking about hundreds of thousands of pages of legal gain, so at this point it is certainly more than 200,000 pages of legal gain, which must be translated, analysed and transposed into the legal regulatory framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is not a small, little task, and therefore I expect that we will all have an understanding of such an important decision, have understanding of the coordination mechanism and, of course, have enough willingness to reach a consensus based, of course, mutual understanding and on the basis of one quality political will, if our goal is to all of us, and our goal is to continue moving on towards European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u792	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Ambassador Rodić satisfied with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u793	As you can see from the broad response of the Council of Ministers, I think the question was very argumentative and I think it's a question for today's moment. Given that we have been dealing with the coordination mechanism for years, I am glad to hear what the Council of Ministers has said, above all, that the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be respected and that we will go towards a solution. Of course, I didn't say it was key, that one of the key conditions is that a credible application could be submitted and, of course, precisely because of the complexity of the relations that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that this process that you are currently conducting is going to some right time. So, please, I'm satisfied with the answer in principle, but I'm asking to be delivered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u794	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u795	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the College, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will address the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. In fact, at the last session, I said that I would support such a radical development plan solely because there was a conference, which was chaired by the Council of Ministers, where we were given the opportunity to get hundreds of millions of euros in assistance in the development of infrastructure. That's when some five projects were run, only two of them eventually went away, and we got about 20 million for some two bridges. Of course, I congratulate the people who were there if they had been able to figure it out, probably more if there were more projects running. I didn't get an answer to what I asked back then at that session, but the truth is, since we got the Plan before the Strategy, that for the strategy some outsiders are planning to pay off a million euros, but here's what I'm going to leave for another time, that I'm not going too wide right now. I will now talk about the digitalisation process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is so important is what Mr. Sredoje Nović was saying about national representation. Bosnia and Herzegovina is clearly divided into responsibilities, both constitutional and legal, and so we have the Law on Public TV Service, which is again, in my opinion, surmounted as well as everything imposed by the international community. But he is who he is, and we don't have a better one right now until we bring him in. Among other things, the Law provides for the establishment of a corporation. I remained shocked a few days ago when I heard that the State Department of Transport gave millions of marks worth of digitisation equipment, which was state-owned, to Republika Srpska, i.e. TV Republika Srpska. There's a story about a corporation. And now what happens? The most stable public broadcaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina will happen. BHRT and federal television are slowly dying in agony, the RTRS is still holding on. Thanks to this, Republika Srpska's TV will soon, thanks to a gift from the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Ministry of Transport manages to digitise and, in accordance with the positive legal regulations, demand to shut down repeaters that transmit an analogue signal. And so we come, here I believe that the SDS gentlemen will be pleased, so this is the end of the policy of Radovan Karadžić, ensuring the absolute domination of the Serbian people in the Bosnia and Herzegovina media programme. My question to the honourable Mr. Minister is – Mr. Minister, are you even aware of what you've done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u796	Thank you, Ambassador Karamatić. Minister Matanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u797	Dear Chairman, members of the College, distinguished delegates, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since the question of the distinguished envoy, Mr Karamatić, is rather complex, in accordance with Article 157. Rules of Procedure, he will be given an oral response at the next session of the House of Peoples. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u798	Thank you. Sure, sure. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u799	Thank you. I'm not going to talk about digitisation, that's what the minister will do next time, and I'm only going to refer to a few sentences on the previous question that the distinguished representative mentions, it's a question of our crowd in Vienna, because it seems to me that, although I've stepped up in public multiple times, I've given more interviews, explained all of this, it seems to me that there's still insufficient information or someone deliberately places entirely different information, i.e. disinformation about what Bosnia and Herzegovina has achieved up there. Who does it and why does it, we all know, but this isn't the time and place to talk about it. So, the Council of Ministers adopted a document that was the platform for our performance in Vienna with clear guidelines and ways in which our delegation will take place, so we just did. After returning, our report was adopted and we rated our visit as extremely successful in all aspects and the tasks outlined by the delegation. I just want to clarify a few things. So no one in Vienna has received hundreds of millions of euros and no one in Vienna, no country in the region has received more projects than another country in the region, because fortunately these are EU criteria, not Western Balkan criteria. The basic criterion is an even, even, balanced approach to all Western Balkan countries, with very clear criteria. I've repeated them several times and let me repeat them again. Grants for road infrastructure can be obtained at a maximum of 20%, for rail infrastructure 40%, for water infrastructure 50%. The criteria for determining the projects of those entering the base network are that they must connect the main cities of the region, and therefore the airport in Sarajevo is installed, and is not, for example, not. installed airport in Banja Luka, and that they must connect the main water ports according to the Danube Initiative and other initiatives, which is why the port in Brcko pod A was installed, and the port in Bosnia Šamac under B.. dakle, that is, and of course trans-European corridors, such as 5C or Railway Corridor 5C. These were criteria and on the basis of these criteria, Bosnia and Herzegovina has installed seven projects from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now I can say – more than practically any other country. So we got the maximum there compared to what we inherited at the moment when we took over the Council of Ministers in April, when Bosnia and Herzegovina was not in such programmes and when some of our previous delegations said that Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, was not at all interested in the Adriatic-Ionian highway. Our first performance in Brussels brought Bosnia and Herzegovina back to the... and Berlin Initiative. Ours, or yours, I thank you for that, the adoption of the Transport Policy which we have seen has not taken over any authority and the formation of the State Investment Committee has enabled us to run for these projects. And out of four approved transport infrastructure projects, Bosnia and Herzegovina received two, so Bosnia and Herzegovina received two. Niko got hundreds of millions of euros, so there's no speech about it, but we'll all get a grant and a very high-quality loan for projects that are up there running. I repeat, the projects Bosnia and Herzegovina has run and won. These are three sections of the highway, three sections of the highway, one of which is of course, if we have to go to that kind of reasoning, two are within the territory of the Federation, one within the territory of Republika Srpska. The second extension of the Sarajevo International Airport is in line with these criteria, the third port in Brcko, the fourth is the reconstruction of part of the Trans-European Railway Corridor on the route of Sarajevo-Strengs and the cleaning of the Sava River from mines so that we too become part of the Danube 11 initiative. In addition, we have proposed two additional projects, it is the Adriatic-Ionian highway to cross Bosnia and Herzegovina at a length of 115 km, because we have three strong reasons for this, politically and regionally. If we talk about regional, co-operation and initiatives, it would be illogical for that autopur to bypass Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally economical because on that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina will eventually have one tunnel, and some other shares include three bridges, two tunnels, etc. And of course we have proposed two projects in the field of energy, but gentlemen will not be accepted unless we adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's energy policy as well. So it's a 400 kV power line connecting Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. And that is our requirement for the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline and transit pipeline, part of that pipeline to be both Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with other and other projects that have entered the PECI list, there are 7 out of 35. So that's the real truth about it. Any other truth that anyone has passed extra, any country in this region and not Bosnia and Herzegovina is simply not based on relevant facts, that is not even true. We all went the way criteria were created, which is a balanced and equal approach for each of the Western Balkan countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u800	Thank you, Mr. President, for this additional and exhaustive answer. Is Ambassador Karamatić satisfied with the answers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u801	So with the presentation of Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am too pleased and here and thank him personally for explaining things to us and to the public. And our delegation there has really done the maximum, too bad they haven't had a chance to get anything else because of too few running projects. So I never doubted the work of our delegation and the work of the Council of Ministers. As for the response of the Honorable Transport Minister, here I look forward to the next session to receive, as I'm told, the oral answer to this question. I wonder how you'll explain it. Here I promise here in front of everyone if I'm satisfied with the answer, if you can convince me that I'm wrong, it means that this is not, as your party says, a multiethnic, multi-četical policy, here's a public promise that I'll buy you a new iPhone 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u802	Mr. Karamatić, thank you. Now let's go, let's move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the People's House asked questions in writing: Zdenka Džambas, a question addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and Ljilja Zovko, a question addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The following answers to the oral questions have been submitted to today’s session. At the 4th session of the House of Peoples, the Ministry of Foreign Karamatić and Economic Relations of BiH, the response was provided by the BiH Council of Ministers. At the 4th session of the House of Peoples, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Halid Genjac, was sent the response by the BiH Council of Ministers. At the Rodić session of the House of Peoples, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, the response was 12 by the BiH Council of Ministers. At the 6th session of the House of Peoples, the BiH Council of Ministers, Dragutin Rodić, was sent the response by the Council of Ministers. Would one of the envoys like to comment on the answer received? There's no interest. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the agenda of today's session. For the 9th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The 2015-2018 Reform Agenda for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01-50-1-852/15 of 16/09/2015; 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law No 01,02-02-14/15 of 07/09/2015; 4. Envoy Mario Karamatić request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs into conversion marks by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law No 02-02-1-18-1/15 of 16.09.2015; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15 of 02.07.2015 and 18/08/2015; 6. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, issue: 01,02,01/1,02/1-08-861/15 of 30.06.2015; 7. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue 01,02-50-14-995/15 of 14.07.2015; 8. Report on the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, issue 05/8-04-562/15 of 14.04.2015, with the opinion of the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 05/8-04-562/15 of 28.07.2015; 9. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01-04-1016/15 of 20.07.2015; 10. A report with a workshop on the subject: "The Legislative Framework, Current Status and Plans of BiH Institutions in the field of defence and security" with a proposal for conclusions, materials of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, issue: 01.02,03/1-50-3-687/15 of 26.08.2015; 11. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament – Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1007/15 of 22.07.2015; 12. Selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1050/15 of 23.07.2015; 13. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-16/15 of 07/09/2015; 13 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the term of office to the members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency from the House of Peoples; 15. Giving consent to ratifying the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the BiH Regional Housing Programme 2 (2013).; Number: 01,02-05-2-1074/15 of 28.07.2015; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on international road transport of passengers and freight, No 01,02-05-2-1098/15 of 05.08.2015; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of veterinary cooperation, No 01,02-05-2-1109/15 of 10.08.2015; 18. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union Fiscalis 2020 programme, No: 01,02-05-2-115/15 of 18.08.2015; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement to the 2011 IPA Cross-border Cooperation Programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a programme of cross-border cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina - Montenegro as part of the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, issue: 01,02-05-2-138/15 of 28.08.2015; 20. Granting consent to ratify the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-05-2-139/15 of 28.08.2015; 21. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement establishing the International Organisation of ST-EP (Employment of Poverty through Sustainable Tourism), issue: 01,02-05-2-1146/15 of 31.08.2015; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, issue: 01,02-05-2-1158/15 of 04/09/2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, I'm sorry. Mr. Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u804	I think there's something vague about the agenda that we got when it comes to point 4. The request of delegate Mari Karamatić to consider the proposal for a law on the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into conversion marks does not appear to be an emergency procedure. And if I followed the chairman well, he said it was an emergency procedure. I'd like to know exactly what's out of it, and if it's changing from office to here, then I don't think it's something regular, first that. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u805	Thank you for asking. Here's me from the secretary, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u806	But here, to continue, I consider it on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, the Club of Delegates of the Serbian People that this Law is too important, important to be able to go by emergency procedure, and I really think that it should go into regular procedure and I would ask the Proposer that this Law goes into regular procedure so that we have the opportunity to discuss it versatilely and I think we should carry out a lot of broader consultations, because this is not such an easy law, but it is a very important law. And I think we have the interest of all of us to engage in the maximum and possibly amend the law so that it can go to one and another House of the Parliamentary Assembly for general satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u807	Thank you, Mr. Nović. It is obviously a technical error, so in Serbian it is a matter of urgency. Here's an apology. Therefore, if there are no amendments and the amendments to the agenda have been adopted and it is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The rules of procedure of the House are now being moved to a fixed agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u808	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u809	Well, the law, so I thought I'd explained it, but obviously I didn't, so the law was proposed by an emergency procedure, so we had to classify it, and this is a mistake, so in the Serbian version, the word was gone -- urgency. Well, here's what he explained to me, and of course you're going to get a new agenda where it's going to be fixed. Here, I hope I've been able to explain. So we move to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We are voting on the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We can vote now. Of the 13 present, there were 12 against none, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH for 7, against no one, 1 abstention, from RS 5 for, versus and abstentioned no one. There's both a general and an entity majority. I am establishing the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. 15 We move to point two, that's Ad. 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda 2015-2018, Council of Ministers material
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u812	Thank you. Of course very briefly, most of the information on the Economic Reform Agenda you already know and are familiar with it. It is divided into six different areas, within these areas part of the activities and measures or legal solutions are very precisely defined and listed. Part of the area is treated in a descriptive way, i.e. generally as an area where certain steps should be made and certain strategies and projects implemented. The agreement within the government that signed this Agenda is that it will be implemented within some 3, 6, 9 deadlines and a maximum of 12 months. I see that the House of Representatives has tasked the Council of Ministers to make an action plan within 30 days, which we had when adopting the Agenda, but also as I was informed, and I am informed, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of Republika Srpska have adopted their action plans to implement the Reform Agenda with clearly indicated measures, activities, laws and strategies. We will now do so as the Council of Ministers, in a way, harmonize to ensure that the deadlines and tasks we have, the joint tasks we have to do within the single deadlines, and we will deliver it to the House of Representatives in the next ten days. The activities are there, I say, divided into very precise activities to be adopted within certain deadlines, precisely defined legal solutions and of course those laws, especially at the level of the Council of Ministers, for which certain previous activities must be carried out at entity level. In that sense, therefore, and you will probably get this action plan from the House of Representatives, I hope that it will also be delivered by the Government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska as is the conclusion of the House of Representatives, but here is what you need to know is that it is a final... that it is 12 months for a credible implementation of measures, activities, laws and strategies from the Reform Agenda. Each of the levels of government is already working on the Reform Agenda, say the Council of Ministers has already done one big job in the strategy-making segment, which is already measured by a percentage of over 50, 60 or more percent of the work done. The Federation government on some legal solutions, the Republika Srpska government as well. So this is about a joint adopted document, a joint defined document and a document that will be a lacmus paper of our willingness to move forward towards European integration. And it will be one of those key conditions so we can submit an application for membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u813	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting word on this agenda point? 16 Mr. Raguž, it seems to me, he has enlisted. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u814	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I welcome all those present. Following what Mr. Zvizdić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, said, I want to say a few things. Firstly, I would really like to welcome his clear position, which he said in that previous response, that we can no longer be guided by the rules, i.e. the way the Western Balkans behaves and forms, but by the clear criteria of the EU when it comes to strategic projects related to this region, and in this sense I welcome the activities that he personally took and the Council of Ministers to show the picture that both Bosnia and Herzegovina through a kind of coordination of executive bodies can become a partner in this historic project of integration of this area in the wider Eurospek community. Of course, this, I would like to make it clear, therefore, that as far as I am concerned and the party I represent, the voters I represent, regardless of what we are in opposition, we support such a Council of Ministers' approach in that part, and that we must build a new political culture, because here without a broader social consensus, this Reform agenda can remain a well-imagined story once again that will not be, unfortunately, operationalized. Knowing the so far... the promises made by some of the current leaders, including the bodies, on behalf of this country and its citizens, unfortunately these opportunities have been missed, the price is high and therefore the parameters that pressure us daily are so severe and painful for the citizens of this country. The second thing I want to say clearly is, there are no steps in this reform agenda unless these strategic projects are realised. And I really think that the historical fact is that Corridor 5C must be rapidly built and rail and roadway, the Adriatic-Ionian road as perhaps the most significant project infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are not yet able to valolyze, and in some ways it has to be made in our heads to connect Bosnia and Herzegovina to those European corridors. As for the way this Reform Agenda is planned, I am obliged to say a few things, because there are still a lot of general things here to be extremely responsible. I can't speak now until I see action plans, and here I'm glad that we've got a deadline that in ten days we can get that action plan, give some more precise assessments, but what's minimum for the implementation of this Agenda is the fact that I can't stand here for more grades in the Agenda, we're going to propose to the European Commission and international financial institutions occasional reviews. No, it must be imperative, we will do so by then and then and present it to Parliament, to the European Commission, I think that this kind of relationship must finally exist here in this agenda. The second thing, financial consolidation as one of the fundamental preconditions, in general, is the beginning of a serious story on the Reform Agenda, and we know how expensive the state we have, this one, is said to be out and agreed with the International Monetary Fund and other financial institutions over the next three years. That sounds nice, I'd like to do it that way, but the fact is, therefore, that we still don't have one minimum thing agreed that we can stand firm that it will be so. I mean, I'd like to, so let's all make that effort together to make it so when we have an action plan ahead of us. At this point, I must also say that those behind this reform agenda, in the formal sense of the executive government, do not have a parliamentary majority still stable at very important levels of government, I am now talking about the Federation and some other counties. So, the responsibility is on all of us, and I want us to share that responsibility. We will practice it in a way, so all that is constructive, which is good, whether we are in power, we must support it, but we must also clearly say that the restructuring of public enterprises, I do not see a sectoral strategy for it people. They're exhaling some of the corporate companies in which governments have their share, uh, these days like... and some others. 17 There is no answer in quality what will happen to these strategic potentials of this country. So, I would like, therefore, to see this Reform Agenda as a fundamental instrument for this country from agony. What is important is what the president said is that all levels of government are involved, it will be valorised through the coordination mechanism, and certainly, therefore, that we need to learn lessons from the current negative forms and start from two things, and that I will end up with, an essential partnership with the international community, with international financial institutions and the EU is a fundamental prerequisite for the realisation of this Agenda, but essentially not declaratively and not with the figs in my pocket. The second essential prerequisite is the coordination of all levels of government, given the complexity of the system, which should be implemented by all these measures. Well, imagine reforming the pension system and social protection, given the jurisdiction, who it is and how it can implement, not to mention the health sector, the public administration, so we know how many employees we have. It's good to put restrictions on it, but this minimum coordination, I accept that this role of leadership should have a Council of Ministers, without taking jurisdiction, and constantly, constant monitoring, here's what I particularly insist on in parliaments, I think it's the basis for implementing this Agenda. And in this sense and in this context, I call on you to approach this way, therefore, with clear deadlines, with clear tasks, with clear action plans, with a clear partnership and inclusion and the NGO sector, media, trade unions, all other elements, because we are in such a state that without one broad social consensus, procedure and synergy, we will objectively continue this downward path, and we have a historical chance of turning it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u815	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to make a statement, so here's what we've learned from this information. So, prepare for a plea. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 11 against none, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 7 for, against none, 1 abstention, RS 4 for, none against and 1 abstention. There's both a general and an entity majority. I am establishing the Reform Agenda for BiH for the period 2015-2018 has been adopted. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of BiH following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. At its 17th session, held on 16 September 2015, the House of Representatives adopted a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure and passed the Law. 18 I give the word to the Proposer if he appreciates that he has needs, but the law is short, I don't think so either. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u818	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I welcome all others present. I'll be brief about this law because it's also an emergency procedure, and changes are very simple. The point is, of course I'll support this law, but I wanted to say something else. Given the experience related to this area and the work of the previous Administrative Commission, of course these Administrative Commissions, as well as the inclusion of the Finance and Budget Committees of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives who have actively engaged in the consideration, including audit reports and these very issues, I would like to say just a few things. I think these ad hoc changes that are present do not solve much when it comes to this very complex and complicated area and, of course, an area of very great interest to the public, and we are often able to listen to how many MPs and delegates are received in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Sometimes I get the impression that often these issues come down to flat-rates, I often get the impression that everything we can't solve is within the jurisdiction of the Joint Administrative Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I think this is worth it, and I've always advocated one other institutional and pragmatic approach when it comes to this area. I think that often and frequently proposing legal solutions from MPs themselves, MPs' clubs, do not and do not go in the direction of solving this problem. I think we should stick to the conclusion, if I am not mistaken, of the Finance and Budget Commission, which has reached its conclusion and suggested that within 90 days, the Council of Ministers propose a comprehensive solution in terms of salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we have the strength to all together through an analysis of everything that is received in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course there we can separate the receipts from those salaries that each MP has, but I think we need to insist on this to come into a position that we have one consistent proposal and we have very few issues to address by sublegal acts. Then we will put order into this area and, of course, come into a situation where we have a unique approach when it comes to this. Sometimes I get the feeling that there's a lot of presence and hypocrisy, just depends on what position you're talking from, whether you're speaking from a positional or opposition and we're getting into a situation where we often have populist laws that we ourselves know won't lead to a solution to this issue. And I notice another fear. When we go into one legal matter without analysis, and when we don't see the consequences to the end, then often by adopting one norm or one amendment, we cause the domino effect of all other norms, and that's what's not good. So still, here's the amendment to what it is and the need to do, but I think we finally need to get into a situation where we have a consistent proposal for these amendments or a new law and stop dealing with this issue. In 2013 and 2014, as Parliament's Assembly, we received a positive report from the auditors, and I think there are very few things left to change that we finally have a fully regulated area of 19, which is, above all, under the public eye, and we should end up standing behind what we are doing and making clear rules when it comes to it. Because it can't be a range, you know when you're talking between 3 and 7 and 8 grand, it's not the same thing. So we're all carrying the same weight, and we're probably not all in the same situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u819	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Ambassador Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u820	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. Here, I need to just tell you that you all know that for the first time the Committee of Finance of the House of Representatives, the Committee for Finance of the House of Peoples, the Joint Committee of Administratively, we have a unique position in this problem. And I would like to, with every word Mr Rodić agrees, and we as the Committee agree, and I want to point out this time that the Council of Ministers is honoring the deadline, because this is the first time that we are truly unique and I am sure that we all and the Minister and our legislative authorities want to resolve this in a fair and just way. I'm also aware that there's some qualified administration that might suit the mess, but believe me, we all have to do together. I'm sorry that this, this law has been passed like this, but I'm guessing it's a lawsuit, because I've been a little bit interested and there's a situation where officials are suing for not being recognized, and that map is different for a completely identical location, and I believe that's the reason and this. Here, we accept this law, of course we will be in, but I would like to point out that the Council of Ministers respects our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u821	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. We've exhausted the debate, no more reports. I'm closing the debate. So here was the discussion of the Law itself, but it was a matter of procedure. So, we're voting on the procedure now. So will the law be considered by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. That's what we're saying now. We can access the plea. You can vote. Of the 13 present, all 13 were in favour, therefore there were none against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH for 8, against no one, abstentioned no one, from RS 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, I find a request to consider the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following an urgent procedure was adopted. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Here, we just heard practically two envoys talking about the law itself. If there's any interest, go ahead. I can't see. So I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the proposal itself, so on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. 20 Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 13 who were present, they were all in favor, therefore there was no opposition or abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions has been adopted. Now we're going to point four, so that's Ad. 4. Envoy Mario Karamatić's request for an examination of the proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs into conversion marks by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. So, you have been asked by the envoys of Mr Karamatić to consider this proposal for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. I'm giving the word to the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u823	I thank the chairman. I agree with my colleague Rodić that this is too important a law and that it took a lot more attention and time to make it quality. In the end, what he's referring to, and it's about banks, it's not really about playing, let's call it that. But there's one other thing, people who are users of credit in Swiss francs just don't have time to wait anymore. This is about, I'm going to use one of the qualifications our D.A. has to use, this is about a joint criminal enterprise. This is about a criminal organization, this is about the unscrupulous robbery of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. I'll just get you some information. 9.802 citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been happy with the Swiss franc loan. Of that 6,100 in the Federation, 3,702 in Republika Srpska. Of that number 21, over 100 people have died of heart attack, stroke, and many have suffered from the most severe malignancies and stress. I got information yesterday from a man here in Sarajevo that he died, also from stress. What happened to these loans? Most credit users have sued banks. Over 300 verdicts have been passed in courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and over 300 convictions are exclusively in favour of credit users. And all the judgments of the minority are identical, that the user returns only the capital he has raised without interest without any interest, the court thus rules. Of course, those judgments don't come true, because believe it or not, banks have money for lawyers, so they complain all the time, and in senior courts, these cases get stuck, and that's how it works. In the meantime, our people are dying. What's going on? For example, if someone in 2006, when these favourable loans came up, raised a loan in Swiss francs of, say, 100,000 marks, then the war was, for example, for buying an apartment, right here in Sarajevo, maybe someone wanted to buy an apartment in Sarajevo, so here's a loan in Swiss francs, in 2006 his war was 800 marks. And he calculated, come on he's got the receipts, the wife, the aunt's getting the pension, somehow he will. Today his war is 1,600 marks. To this day, he has paid 135,000 marks to the bank on 100,000 credits. And by chance, if he gets a TV bingo, everything with those Jack Pots, with everything he's got, and he goes to the bank to close the loan, he still owes 150,000 marks. 900 million marks will get the Hypo Bank extra profits. 21 The urgency of the procedure, the law may not be perfect, but similar legislation has been passed by Montenegro, and Ukraine, and Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Serbia is on the way to passing the law. If we get into a regular procedure, it's not that I'm afraid, I'm convinced by lobbying by the banks that it'll take a while, these people don't have any more time to wait. We can handle a lot by sublaw. There's a bill of law, there's jurisdiction, we have a complicated constitutional-legal arrangement, we have entity banking agencies that need to be involved. They have to bring in these sublaws. I don't speak as a lawyer, I don't speak as an economist, I speak as a man. I ask you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the people, to adopt this Act by emergency procedure, to adopt this Law in this form or possibly if someone has any objections, and to side with our fellow citizens and not the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u824	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is there any more interest? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are now pleading on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. So that's what we're saying now. Please prepare to plead. So of the 12 present – 5 was for, 6 v, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 5 for, 3 against, no one was abstentioned, no one from the RS for, 3 against, 1 abstention. So there's no general majority. Therefore, I am establishing a request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs into conversion marks by emergency procedure has not been adopted. Now, according to our Rules of Procedure, we must declare ourselves, therefore, whether we will consider the Law in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please prepare for a plea. You can plead. So from the 12 to 10 present there was no one to, against 2, abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, no one abstention, from RS 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing a request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs into conversion marks by a reduced procedure was adopted. Now we move to the fifth point of today's session, which is, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Violations (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and found that the bill was in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional and legal system. At its 16th session, held on 27.08.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Bill's proposal in the first reading. 22 I give the word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Genjac, if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I give the word to the lawmaker again if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on First Reading Violations. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – there were 12 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 4 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infractions was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point six, that's it, Ad. Six. Annual Report of the High, Judgment and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u828	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 23 Last report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, when we adopted, I was asked how is it possible that people accused of multimillion or hundreds of millions of millions of crimes were released because of the inability to influence witnesses? I just remembered. Now I remember, I came up with an answer. Well, that's possible because no one's conducting an investigation against them, so no one's going to testify. That's how our prosecution works, that's how our court works. Here is to remember the silence of the "Pandora" action when Mr Kemal Čaušević and 54 people were arrested, then it was called the action of the century. They even talked about billions that were stolen, blacked out, disappeared somewhere in an interspace until they came from the vault through payment, direct taxation, indirect taxation. And that's where it all stops. Today, the esteemed Mr. Čaušević walks in Baščaršija, Mary's court, Ilidža. Sometimes when he needs to say, if he asks me to give him money, he asks me to give him money, and that's how the Pandora action ended. That's our D.A.'s office. It's funny, actually I have to really congratulate some people here on the honest heart, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has top lawyers. I'm responsible for that. Here I have, I can say so, honor and privilege with someone sitting in this House, and we really have top lawyers. We have excellent judges, we have capable prosecutors, and it is not clear to me how they have succeeded from an institution that should be a roof institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning the gray eminence comes to believe more in the media than in the prosecution and the court, whether they believe or not. Imagine, they trust some fake profile on Facebook or they say if it was in the papers it's probably true, and the court and the prosecution don't trust anyone. And how will he believe it? As he will believe, a few days ago I was on the mark of the crimes in Grabovica, where members of the BiH Army of 33 civilians of Croatian nationality brutally massacred. When I say brutally, I mean really brutally. For example, Jozo Brekalo is crucified to the cross and is decapitated, i.e. He's got his head cut off, he's stuck on a stake. His wife was tortured and burned alive. Little mladenka was 4 years old, Marko and Ivan 87 years old. People are convicted of this crime. One of the convicted members of the BiH Army said in court they had orders to kill all Hrvat. It's taken from him as an extenuating circumstance. There is no joint criminal enterprise, no one has been convicted by command responsibility. On the other hand, we have witnessed, in recent months, the detention of people and every former member of the Croatian Council of Defense is charged with belonging to a joint criminal enterprise. I stand firm at the point of view that every conclusion is a crime and that the perpetrator must answer. But it is not clear to me that a member of one of the three armies that clashed in these areas, in court, stated that he had orders to kill all Hrvat and that no one was charged under command responsibility. I don't understand on the other hand that members of one military formation, i.e. The Croatian Defence Council was controlled by an area called the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia, later Croatia's Herceg-Bosnia, which, gentlemen, is the only territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina where there is no mass grave, systematically obtaining the qualification of a joint criminal enterprise. I don't understand, perhaps the prosecution believes that the BiH Army had no commander, that they were individuals who went to war, because that qualification does not exist when we talk about the BiH Army, and there are qualifications of command responsibility and joint criminal enterprise when it comes to the other two armies, i.e. The Croatian Defence Council and the Republika Srpska Army. There is a system within the prosecution and a court that haunts the two peoples and puts the defendant in drawers against the third people. The 14th anniversary of the massacre on Uzdol, 41 Hrvat were killed there. It was in The Hague court and the Hague court returned that BiH court to action. Believe it or not, although the perpetrators are known by name and last name, even though they know who came in, who killed who, unlike Grabovica here, were found all the bodies, not on Grabovica because they were burned, dumped in Neretva, etc., all the bodies were found here, no one was convicted to this day of killing those 41 people. And then we get a report from the High Court and Prosecution Council to adopt it. As I have already said 24, we are receiving top lawyers, this report is top-notch, but I will not vote for it today, not today, not tomorrow, not for a year, nor ever until the prosecution begins to do its job, until the BiH Court of Justice begins to do its job, until the VSTV begins to implement what it is set up for, means the control of the work of judges and prosecutors. Because it can't happen that a man brutally kills two old men in Kaknju, confesses to murder and is released. It can't happen. It's happening with us. Is a disciplinary judge doing anything in the VSTV? Is WSTV doing anything? Is the D.A. doing anything? I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u829	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Rodić is next to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u830	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say a few words about the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, since yesterday on the Constitutional Commission we held a very reasoned debate and I think there could be a lot of facts and this report ended up in the House in a very unusual way. Of course, we are taking it into knowledge but we have forwarded it to further procedure, although we are deeply aware that, for the past 10 years, we have been considering the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and that, as far as I know, this report has never received support in this House and has not been accepted into knowledge. What's the point is if I were to now talk about this report that we have ahead of us, and which is the subject of the 2014 debate, then I'd say that it's methodologically quite good, that there are many arguments and facts that speak about the work of judicial institutions and that as such it contains everything that happens at this point in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, to work in the judiciary may be one of the most qualified and educated structures of citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and then, of course, it is expected that this pillar of government as the third pillar of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the area of justice, should be on one very, very high level. However, I will now quote a member of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which says the Council is an independent body in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose task is to ensure an independent, impartial and professional judiciary, and the establishment of an effective and professional judicial system and prosecutorial function at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Brcko District, as well as to coordinate the application of these standards in entities, in Brcko District, as defined by this Law. As we can see, the body that has the most leverage in its hands to regulate the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina through all these years does not receive a positive report and has no support in, above all, Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative body, either in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples. It's an alarming fact for me and she's talking about a few other things. First of all, there is a mistrust in the work of the judicial system, and it seems to me that the problems in the judiciary have surpassed Bosnia and Herzegovina. What about judicial reform under the auspices of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council? She didn't give the results. Problems in the framework of structural dialogue, the problems of judicial reform remain. A few days ago, to say more than a month ago, I watched a show on federal television where the president of the BiH Court says there is a judicial mafia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are very difficult qualifications for me and that's something that says that and within that judicial system is something rotten, and I get the impression that there's not enough will to solve a certain 25 things. It all depends on how anyone positions and how anyone has a place and a role in it. Of course, we are not also amnesty from the legislative authority because I believe that many legislative solutions at this point were not willing to be done in the right way, and of course it produces further consequences that can have far-reaching consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I think is that the functioning of the judicial system must, above all, be in the interest of all the citizens and peoples living in that Bosnia and Herzegovina, that all citizens must be equal in front of the law. We can say that these are floscules, but these floscules are the greatest range of democracy and the greatest reach in the rule of law and reach in one rule of law. I, as a delegate and as a man, will always advocate institutionally resolving many issues, and perhaps it is utopian, but we all need to reach a consensus on certain things and on certain institutes, on certain problems, in order to be able to respond adequately and adequately. If one whole entity says there is a problem in the judiciary then we must take it seriously and, of course, go step into dialogue to solve certain problems, because I think only Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will always and always repeat it, can survive on consensus, compromise and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u831	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The next envoy is Mr. Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u832	Thank you very much. Well, here I am, very briefly and I will start with this task, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH through the Law adopted in 2004 established the jurisdiction of the VSTS, which is that it is an independent body tasked with ensuring an independent, impartial and professional judiciary. And in my view, all these reports should be in function of analysis as far as we came into this process because it is obvious that this is a process, neither possible overnight, nor possible in such political circumstances and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and certainly in the sense that this body has restrictive circumstances to achieve this function, as far as other elements are concerned. And also today, through this report and through these discussions, we see that there are subjective, objective responsibilities for the absence of still the opportunity to say that we have also close to an independent professional judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, I have to say, so, and that's why I have the most answered for the word, today when people communicate us, probably all of us as envoys, MPs, etc., and surely I have a lot of contacts, the most I've been worried about in the last year is mistrust at all in the institutions of this country, even from those people who would have their own professional situation, statusual, influence that they have legal certainty, and they lose their full trust, their children are leaving and there's a perception that it's impossible to ensure that people will ever be equal before the law. I think it's the most dangerous thesis and perception created in this country. Now, as far as this institution is concerned, as far as all of us are concerned. We can't... responsibilities or politics, or legislative, or executive power to change things here together. That is why it is very important, therefore, in these recommendations it is said that the legislative authority is expected to support the amendment of the law and the adoption of new laws. It would be realistic to expect that we have here a list of which are legal solutions, proposals and deadlines. And whether the report has passed or not if we have it as a conclusion will be of some use to this report as well. I think it must be one of the conclusions that 26 of us, here in the next month, get a list of the legal acts on which this Parliamentary Assembly must work when it comes to... the functions of this judicial institution. Here, I took the most of it. Secondly, the fact is that, apart from mistrust in the judiciary, in terms of equal protection of man against the law, we have a strong politicisation of this institution and when it comes to organised economic crime, and when it comes to terrorism, and when it comes to security, and when it comes to the trial of war crimes, and when it comes to the inability to ensure the protection of independence of every man, whether he is in a situation of having a lawyer or not, to pay him regularly or not. And the fact is, therefore, that these are the questions that we all should be working on together, to bring back the faith that it is possible here to ensure an independent judiciary and equality before the law, because without it objectively we can hide our heads in the sand like an adjective, but you'll see what's going on. It happens, therefore, that even those who so far thought they were untouchable send their children out because they no longer believe... It's our reality. And until we change that reality in a way that we, as a legislator, first go about what we need to change by this law, so that I could then call the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, me in this way... and I have a lot of arguments that... we've heard a lot of arguments so far. We have to make one balance that there are no double standards when it comes to a war crimes trial. Believe me, it's a big problem in this country. I don't mean to be individual or specific, but believe me, it's a huge problem here. Trust is lost, not only in judicial institutions, but in general institutions can balance truth and justice in one correct way to draw the line once and for all and turn to the future. So, let me conclude, I suggest that we have one own conclusion in cooperation with the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council on what we will do to improve legislation and what laws should be a priority in order to achieve this function. And the other thing is, let's see in the strategic partnership with the European Commission what about structural dialogue, that it is not politicised, that it is not placed in the daily political context of certain political ideas and initiatives that are partial. And this is not just a single entity issue, this is a matter of all the citizens and all the peoples of this country, the issue of independence and the regularity of the judiciary. And we can also lead one kind of other referendum in a way that will not question anyone else by respecting the legitimacy of these initiatives, but simply create an environment where we will address these issues and not further politicize them and sharpen them. We expect you to answer some of these questions. And about whether there is definitely an ethnic, national balance there, sex, how unsolved cases are treated, up to one dynamic insurance of the necessary financial resources from European and other funds, because we see that there is a compromised vital function of these institutions because no strategy is adopted at the right time, no IPA funds are used, etc. These are all serious questions that await us and not only would we take this into account but this would be the continuity of our dealings from our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u833	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Next up, Ambassador Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u834	I join the greetings of my previous colleagues so I don't repeat myself. I will one part, not to repeat myself with the discussions we've heard so far, regarding the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It was the day of the missing persons. 01.09., organized by the 27th Joint Committee on Human Rights of both Houses here was, as I would call it, a conference, meeting with the missing persons' associations. I must admit, there were few members of the same committee. I'm not a member, but as an emissary I was here in this place because that session, here it was in this blue room. At the invitation to the session, directed by the esteemed co-chairman, it was written that the chief prosecutor would attend, among other things. When we came here, so everything was filled with quite a number of women, in the vast majority they were women from the associations taken, missing persons. It was seen that they were very disappointed because they wanted to ask, they, questions, let their questions from this long struggle – what about their missing. What they wanted to ask, I don't know. But sir, whether for justified or unjustified reasons I don't know, it wasn't at that session. We've had, we've been listening for a long time, we've had a few representatives, we've heard all the associations, first representatives, you know how we go first, second, third groups, and then all the other associations. You have desperate women, desperate mothers, daughters, children who are not anymore, and we forget that. At the time of the death and when their fathers were gone, those children were a year old, two. Today these children are 25, 26 years old and that's the youth we're talking about, the youth they're going to be at, stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they're disappointed and then they say they're disappointed in the state, in the prosecution and the Missing Persons Act. I wrote down everyone who spoke, and everyone said, "That's three words that were used most of the time." State, they consider us agents in that state, the prosecution totally and the missing person's law. What did we do in 22 years? Are we going to make out of these young people, who today are 25, 26 years old, so many dissatisfied people who don't believe in their own country, who are leaving here, who know that their fathers didn't die for it, they're not for this state, that's their position. Let us not forget those years when our young people are full of desires for some truth. And as a member of the Euro-Atlantic Integration Committee, my task in Strasbourg was to study what conditions result in the radicalisation of young people. At the top, at the top of why radicalization comes, here are these 25, 26-year-olds, and there's an unresolved question from the war. And then it's easy to radicalize a person like that. Therefore, the prosecution should indeed deal with this problem, because it is 8,000 missing persons, but it is many thousands of dissatisfied people. So when we multiply it all by family, in the new families that came after that, it's over 30,000 people. And as an emissary in my job description, it says I should be in the field. So, I'm an envoy of the Croatian people, and that's why they probably invited me... to the election unit to come to Bugojno and attend, to say what's more with the taken and missing Bugojanac. It's hard to look at, it's hard to listen to the fates of those other mothers, but I've been here, that's where they accuse, name who they are, everyone in Bugojn knows. It is dangerous not to say who did it and where they are, for they go out for the first time to dig, to dig. For the first time, the family comes out, prepares to finally bury their own. Which is the shock that 30 families first experience for the first time and that's more humiliating, if they say they'll start digging up the last time in the seventh month, and then the buffer breaks down, and then we'll continue on Monday, and then the prosecutor says she can't because she's going on vacation. And then that family stays that way, doesn't know what they're going to do now, whether they're going to keep digging, or when they're going to. That's why I'm here, we're the prosecutor's question, because according to our Rules of Procedure, which we have to respect, I can't ask the D.A. to come here and answer my questions, so I have to go down the written path. But who will find out what it says in that answer, I had to tell these women that I would give that answer to the public that they too read and they gave me all the assignment that I kept, constantly repeating that question when more would reveal where they were taken and gone. In the first row, I was there, so the Hrvat Bugojno, but everyone else, the victims of the last war. Absolutely dissatisfaction. 28 If the question is that they are not satisfied with the Law of Missing Persons, then there are we. Will we, as representatives of both homes, be changing that law, won't the prosecution do its job? I don't know it now, but I don't want anyone to tell me – we don't believe in the state thinking that I'm a part of this House's fault that 22 years have failed to reveal anything, or the perpetrator or where they're buried. To stop the humiliation of those women, I'm really saying now that the envoy, the wife, those mothers, those sisters, those husbands and those children, that once more this has to end. A lot of work has been done, but 8,000 is also a huge number. Until when? I don't mean to say that I give precedence over one another, but 22 years is a really long deadline to say – have patience. These mothers say, they'll tell us, they'll die and it'll go away. No, they won't. I said they're women, they'll find ways. It never happened that a woman did not come to what she wanted, whether through her daughter, or through her granddaughter, she will endure. Let no one hope that these women will give up, they will not give up. So get to work, 'cause I don't even know what's going on with people who give false statements. I don't know, I don't know, I can't read it in the paper, I can't read it in the report, I don't know what it is with people who make false statements like that, if they're fake, and in that way, another fifty-first time they're stressful on family, really. For that reason, except for these others, I really can't because I've been with these mothers, I can't vote for the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u835	Thank you. Madam Ambassador Ljilja Zovko is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u836	That's a nice greeting. I'd just like that, so we're here at the House of Peoples and we can never forget that. This is all we've heard here today in the function of evil. I believe, and I've met many people of good faith. The most of this evil came through a gap and a line of less resistance. So if we want to make something right, we have to come from the House of Nations, somehow it would be easier for me if different people were to mark other people's sides, so it wouldn't be if we were nationalists, if we were just looking at ourselves, it would mean some base of people of good faith that wanted to separate from evil. It's the only thing that can save us. So, the House of Peoples is this institution that we can and need to make some conclusions today so that it doesn't happen again, that the prosecution understands the seriousness of having to work. The laws that are always within them have some opportunities that are recognized and time-consuming process, people who seek their rights they have executed faith in all living things. We as the House of Peoples here today must make some decision and change something to see visible. I really see in all our bodies our working unity when it comes to such terrible things. Perhaps we should make a decision, here we as members of the House of Peoples each strategize where the marking of crime is to go together, mark and condemn evil, it doesn't matter, and every criminal no matter where the people come from. Maybe that's the solution, too, to start by saying that we're not all equal and that we're condemning a crime in our people. Here, I don't know, we have to bring something today mostly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u837	Thank you. No more reports. I'm supposed to close the debate right now, but here's a colleague of mine, Tadić, and I'm only going to sign up for a little while. Give me your word. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u838	I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u839	Thank you. I'll do it real quick. I'm not going to say anything new that we haven't heard. We were yesterday, was it yesterday or were the day before yesterday, when we had a Constitutional Commission and trust none of the members of the Constitutional Commission supported this report. Not because it is not written in quality, not because anything in it has been said that it is not, because it is a summation or a set of sorcery that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council gets from the judicial authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is a common procedure, but what really concerns is this situation in the judiciary. It worries that nothing or at least anything more significant is being repaired in the judiciary. That's what's worrying. So we just have to come up, turn the board around, we just have to give our contribution that things are developing in the other direction. Of course, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council can't solve all the problems, but it does have a huge responsibility on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council why the situation in the judiciary today is the way it is. We seek and strive as a civilised society that seeks the EU, not for the sake of the EU, but for all of us here, to have both professionally and professionally and efficiently, and an independent, impartial judiciary, I would say and a responsible judiciary, we unfortunately do not have any of that today, we have a very confusing situation. And in this sense, we will have to make sure that many regulations are amended, and the adoption of a new Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and the Law on BiH Courts, and to amend the laws, procedural laws, and the CAP, and the Penal Code of BiH. But as long as you believe me, until a system of responsibility is established for all of us, so in this case, when we talk about the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about a third branch of government, a very important branch of government, as long as there is no such responsibility, I don't think we're going to do anything or we're going to make more of a step. We'll tap in place, make things a little bit better sometime a little bit worse, but we won't have what we want. Unfortunately, we will still have spectacular arrests, people's releases very quickly, promises and such and such, we will have, if you want to advertise certain holders of judicial functions, and some of the media want to become media stars instead of doing their job in quality and responsibility, but I repeat, there is no way to amnesty in this respect the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, above all because of the staff policy that has been conducted, because of the choice of appointments of judges and prosecutors. There are many things we need to change, and although we, let us be correct, no one has bothered to change the legislation so far. A few times already tried to make little changes, so it doesn't work. So, we all have to realize that we finally have to put this job to work, we just can't go on like this. And part of the international community is also responsible for this situation. But even though the laws were imposed in 2004, who bothered us to change them. We have accepted both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly as such and can change them. Unfortunately, we can't amnesty part of the international community even interferes with individual human resources solutions, we all know it, we don't need to hide it, we have to finally speak, look into the truth. We have come to an end, we must, therefore, all of these laws that Mr. Raguž spoke about which laws, we know which laws exist, they believe in this structural dialogue each of them has its own name and last name, that is, has a precise name. On our part, we need to make a contribution so that this no longer happens, in order to avoid a selective approach to justice, to avoid, I don't know, retroactive application of criminal law, and even after decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European 30 Court of Human Rights, etc., etc. We will not democratisation this country and this society if, instead of justice in the courts, many, not only in the context of war crimes, so many seek this justice, still do not have it. I think now that we need a few words, we should give a word to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, if not the public one of the esteemed envoys, but I really don't think we have more time, that we have to change things and that we ourselves have to take part in our responsibilities. Thank you. I don't see any more registered envoys, now I'm going to give my word, of course, to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Zijad Kadrić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić. Here, please try to concentrate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u840	Honorable chairman, co-chairman, MPs of the House of Peoples, colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening to this debate today, and I'd like to start with the first question, so regarding the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report. The first thing that must be done, therefore, is whether to go with the practice so far to be learned or to adopt the report or not to be adopted. If we start with the nature of the report, what is the report. So the report is an expensive fact. And we, therefore, present in the account what it is. In this report segments related also to efficiency, accountability, etc., independence etc. have been processed. So, independence, funding, what funding is, what needs to be improved in terms of funding, the responsibility to increase perhaps the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, etc. Here's the Council's responsibility. Now is the chance if we never, in the procedure of the VSTV Act, so change of that law. We have a structural dialogue, we have proposals for that law, etc. And you're saying yourself here that, considering this report, etc., you're just saying you don't accept. I don't understand what's not accepted. Do you not accept these facts here which are or are simply said to evaluate the poor work of the judiciary and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Now, if we go back to the High Court and Prosecution Council, there's such a mediocre success. So, something's been done about it, here's the first function of the Council's appointment. So, the appointment of judges and prosecutors. That's a very important question of life, that's an important question. However, what are we in these amendments to the VSTV Act, what did we not foresee? We didn't foresee an external appeal, so the court's appeal. We have foreseen some objections to appointments, etc., may object etc. We have procedures here, here we have these test procedures, so we have a test before entering the judiciary of those who are not from the judiciary, we have a written test. So, all this carries 80 points and 20 points goes on the oral part of the exam, and those who come already from the judiciary and want to advance them are working results relevant and based on these results, therefore, they have, can win 100 points and up to 25 even on the interview. We also have some rank lists. Now, all this when it's done often happens that the one down there is much lower on the ranking list and we have vague reasons why it is. Yesterday we were on the Constitutional Commission, here's my colleague Bariša, we talked, and my colleague Bariša was a judge, I've been a judge for 35 years, I've been assistant minister of administration, Minister of the Interior at Tuzla Canton, and I've been in the judiciary all along. The difference is heaven and the country of justice then as it was now. 31 Then, when the American delegation came to the judiciary, when it was mentioned, the judge, they stood up. What do we have today? Today we have many to be threatened when the name of the judge and everything is mentioned. I accept, according to my colleague, the chairman of Bariša, that he has failed enough of that selection of appointments of staff to the court and the prosecutor's office. What's the matter? The Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH have been established, it is necessary to appoint personnel and it is precisely incomprehensible that they go from the basic level to a state court which, among the highest levels, is therefore the highest level for that level of government. So, what was going on like that? We didn't have, there were circumstances like this, and I wasn't at the time when the court and the prosecution started, but first it was necessary to provide personnel, there weren't any interested personnel, and especially to secure that national balance. They did not pass laws regarding separate life, related to separate life fees, etc., so he has no interest from Banja Luka to come, what I know or from Bihaq to come to the state court although it is an excellent fit, etc., because he has at the beginning the cost of living 1,000, 1,500 marks and him, only because of the honor he would be in the Court. So people weren't interested. Now we have this, and now we can make adjustments. We have, therefore, repairing this appointment procedure, we have these tests, we have an oral interview, and so on. As far as I'm concerned, the most valuable thing for me is this written testing. Even an oral interview would not give him any meaning or points. So go for a written test, so those who are not in the judiciary who are just entering the judiciary. You got the most points, and you're gonna get elected. What rules on conflict of interest... There's no rule, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. So, the results of that test determine whether you will be accepted as an expert associate or as a judge when you come out of court. Those who want to make progress have so far been working results. So they have as much as they have finished the cases, the quantity, they have how it's solved by appeal and emergency legal medicines, quality. And that's it. Well, that was before. So in this system, they call you from a higher court, when they see you, you follow you for a few years, they see your judgments coming, so they confirm, so they say we need a judge like that and they look for you, etc. It was a system. What's today, this is all a story. Secondly, the media has to monitor, so to follow, now we have, open council meetings for the public. Follow it, and say – gentlemen, it is unclear to me, which is why here is the repeat competition if there are candidates who have won and who are up at the top of the list and won the number of points and do not need a national balance. So there's, there's implications of its own, repeating the competition costs 3,000 maybe marks, etc., is being spent again. So it's, it's paid by taxpayers, paid by others etc. I haven't really learned, I've learned in my career, I haven't had my convictions lifted or I have now as judge of the Court of Appeal in the Brcko District, I don't know what an abolished ruling means in the Constitutional Court, etc. So, this is known by colleague Mato Tadić, judge of the Constitutional Court and so on. So, we don't have, but sometimes people do their thing despite all the regulations, even if they're perfect, they get their way or whatever they want.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u841	Try to cut back a little bit, please, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u842	This fellow, Bariša, is another thing to say, what you've been saying to these arrests spectacularly, etc. We once said it at a council meeting and I said it was inappropriate. I'm sick of seeing the same arrest of footballer Džajić in Serbia, so they handcuff him, so they print him in that car, etc., it's awful disgusting. And then I said we really need to act here, too, to say no, the mani spectacular arrests of the great prosecutor, great inspector. So, there's no need to arrest anyone, and even when he was president of the Federation, there's no need for these spectacular arrests, these are people who are serious who will come alone when you invite him to testify, etc. 32 So, all of this, I ask for cooperation, so what the chairman says, there are laws that need to be passed, which need to be changed, and also co-operation. We have about the evaluation of judges and prosecutors, we prosecutors don't have the legal basis for their evaluation, we don't have and we don't have a president of the Federation Supreme Court, etc. We put up a proposal, went to the Council of Ministers and knows a colleague, Bariša, that went three times and came into procedure, but someone dared. So we have judges here to evaluate some basic levels, etc., and we don't judge these others here. We have discrimination. And that's what we stand for and pray for, that simple thing can't go through. So, therefore, we pray for co-operation in all these respects, we pray for co-operation, and I am against injustice, and I, I, the terrible injustice is struck and related to this selection of appointments in this law clearly that there may be a complaint. The appeal would be if I didn't know what time and that appeal to the court so let the court determine, there is, there is an interview if it's an interview, they have written tests and then the court will be able to see what it is if someone is unhappy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u843	Thank you. So this concludes today's debate on this agenda point. We are now voting on the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2014. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Uh, excuse me. We're gonna have to do it again. I was wrong. So from the 12-1 present was for, 9 v, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH 1 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions, no one from the RS for, 4 against, no one abstention. There's no general majority. I conclude the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2014 has not been accepted. We're going to the next, seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission supported the report and proposed to the House of Nations its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 16th session, held on 27.08.2015. I give the word to Mr. Halid Genjac, if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. I'll give the word to the Reporter, if he appreciates he's got ptorebs. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There is, therefore, no candidate for debate. 33 Now we shall approach the plea. You can vote. Out of the 11-10s present, there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 7 for, none against and abstention, from RS 3 for, none against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority. I agree with the report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014 was adopted. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report on the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, with Opinion of the Committee on Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u846	I thank the chairman. It's not about the report. I don't know. I don't know where I'd go with this. I have some information and I have a desire to share it with you distinguished colleagues. It's about the Service for Joint Affairs in BiH institutions. I'm not suggesting that this is about corruption, but here's kind of a subject for me, so here's hoping that the proposer of this report has here, so here's to look into it, clean. Namely, the company Gold Mignon, which is responsible for poisoning 200 children in Sarajevo kindergartens, for which the county inspection punished with 10 thousand marks, which does not have permission to deliver products of animal origin, passed the tender of state institutions, i.e. delivers food down to the restaurant. It's not for me, but there are three members of the Bureau of Signs. Guys, watch what we're doing. Here, I'd like to ask you to check for this information, so it's one of the three companies that went through a food supply tender to state institutions, a company that doesn't have permission to deliver products of animal origin. This was approved by the director of the BiH institution's Joint Affairs Service. Well, here, I'd like to ask this agency to check if it's animal products. So if pears and apples are okay, but here, if it's coffee cream, it's animal origin already, I don't think I'd like them to deliver it to me. That's it. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u847	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Are there any more reported? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, with the conclusions contained in it. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – there were 12 against and there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, with the conclusions contained in it, has been adopted. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Security status information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014, BiH Ministry of Security material You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH. The commission has received knowledge of the Information. The commission also accepted the supplemental information as follows. In Chapter III of Organized Crime in BiH, under the point of the trends of measures taken and the indications of the next steps, it is necessary to include the fact that, as part of the implementation of the Integrated and Anti-Corruption Plan at the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska for 2014, an email address for reporting corruption has been opened, which has been properly and timely notified to the public. In Part Information under point 7. Economic and financial crime at the level of BiH should be stated that by applying the Law on the Abuse of Assets acquired by the committed criminal act of Republika Srpska and the recommendations of the GRECO and the IPA project, the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia in 2014 permanently seized assets totalling 14,328,296,18 KM in the case of Zoran Ćopić and others. At its 16th session, held on 27.08.2015, the House of Representatives received information that has been updated in line with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. I give the word to Mr Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House session, if he appreciates his needs. Thank you, no need. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present and appreciated that? So, no. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 35 We are voting on the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – there were 12 against and there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Security status information in BiH in 2014 has been received. We are now voting on the Completion of the information proposed by the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – for it was 11, against no one, abstention 1. From Federation of BiH 7 for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 4 for, none against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the supplement to the information proposed by the Joint Defence and Security Committee in BiH has been adopted. We're going to the 10th agenda of today's session, that's Ad. Ten. Report from the workshop on the subject: "The legislative framework, current state and plans of BiH's defence and security institutions" with a proposal for conclusions, joint defence and security committee material
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u853	I just want to ask a question – What is the reason for forming a Joint Committee to review an Independent Committee? You see how we behave in this House. When it comes to some institutions that also carry an epithet of independence then we say no one has the right to touch independence. When the word is where we want it and we have some other interest, then we say we'll question it. I suppose it is at least time for delegates to be told what is the reason why a joint committee or commission is formed to review the Commission's work? Is that why they didn't adequately resolve the 38 Zubac issue when it was a great search for him, for his shift, and he was withdrawn, is that why it was common, or did the Commission not want to finish the job on the case of the Director of the Coordination Agency? What's that all about? Don't we have the strength, what the executive government does then, what it does? What are we doing about it all? At least if someone told us five sentences, here's the reason, that's why we want to do it. Otherwise, I don't think any independent commission formed by these two homes will certainly come up with an objective finding, and if they need to be replaced, then change the procedure that the Independent Committee provides for and choose a new one that is at the request of those who are looking for their shift. In the rest of the shift, she's wanted legally, legitimately, and okay. Or at least to get an explanation, at least I don't know what the reason for that is. Give us some explanation that he has, and let's decide on the basis of it today whether we'll be in or out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u854	Thank you, Mr. Nović. We've got reports, Mr. Podžić, and then Mr. Tadić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u855	Here, I'll try to make this question a little easier for Mr. Nović, at least for a little while. So, the Joint Defence and Security Committee that has discussed this issue three times, because the predstavnički of Representatives has made it responsible. For the first time, she discussed this because the Independent Committee did not submit an annual report and a work plan for the current year, with the conclusion that simply those in the Independent Committee could not agree, agree to sign and bring the joint report. At the very meeting of the Joint Commission, therefore, came this proposal, which I see is not this proposal, but was followed by Mrs. Vajzović's proposal to replace the entire Independent Committee, so that the next session would be attended by the initiative of the Security Minister, Mr. Mektić, to replace the director. What happened the day before the Commission and why, when I opened the Defence and Security Commission session, Mr. Mektić withdrew his proposal, I don't know. I can tell you that apart from your colleague, Mrs Majkić, everyone else in the Commission has learned on this Commission that the report has been signed, adopted, etc. So I think that there is, Mr. Nović, the need, I am glad that it is not left on the Commission for Defence and Security, and there is a need to definitely examine the work of this Independent Committee. I'm going to Izgovorić that sentence, although I had no intention, not just the president of the Committee, but the Committee can be anything but independent at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u856	Thank you. Here, first deputy, Mr. Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u857	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I'll be, I think, very short. So we, from the beginning of this call, and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, have always had these issues from the field of security on the agenda. Well, 39 can also be because of the composition of parliamentarians themselves and because of their and professional commitment and political interest, today some of these issues have been particularly expressed, I'm less talking about the economy because unfortunately we have fewer economists here, this. Now, by opening these questions, I have the impression that we're going to share the score and that we're constantly going around in circles, we ask the minister, the minister says -- there's no jurisdiction, whether he's been discussing the Council of Ministers, and then it goes to the Defence and Security Committee, and then somewhere around here the circle ends, and that we're not in a position to do it, nor are we authorized to have any of these people running these institutions, I'm not going to say we're calling for responsibility, but at least we're asking what's going on. When something is independent it is, therefore, in an ideal sense perfectly clear how it should look, is it? It is not the Independent Committee independent of this Parliament, where it writes it. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is building a committee that is independent of others, which is dependent on Parliament. He needs to implement the laws we make, we choose, through electoral bodies dealing with them, these people, this Parliament, on a proposal from these bodies, makes a decision on who these people are there, etc. Where does it say that they are independent of Parliament? It's a complete non-ense, it's for the public let, as I would say, a message that has absolutely no legal basis. They are responsible to this Parliament, as we are responsible to the people, and this is the indirect link between the people, who are dissatisfied, and these people who do their job, or some additional job, I don't even know what to call it, on that Independent Committee. On the other hand, they're our intermediaries to the security people, we don't have any others. He's not the minister of security of our mediator, he's a man who's part of the ministers who's related to the presidency, and here he's functional as an executive body, executive authority, and here he's functionally doing some regulations, laws, I don't know your subject, etc. Our relationship, the Parliamentary Assembly, with the directors of the agencies, with these institutions is the Independent Committee and we need to ask this Independent Committee a question – why, or what it is, or whether and how it reacted, acted, worked, etc., on a very complex security occasion, not only this one, but last year, so I would say years behind it. Especially because they're the only people who, let's say, kind of, I'm going to change this sentence so I'm not going to say what they have, uh, but some kind of responsibility they feel, compared to them, the directors of police agencies. Not from us, they have nothing to do with us, not from the Council of Ministers, because they only directly have anything to do with him, only from the Independent Committee. In that sense, the function of this body, the team, the ad hoc commission is to talk to these people and try to find answers to those questions that we as parliamentarians have been asking ourselves, to the public, and to the circle of how we catch him to ask him what happened on any of the last occasions. If they establish that he is so-called. The independent committee is independent, but if it weren't for the independent members of that committee, that would be valuable information to us, so that we can see if the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the earlier life has put some of these people's trust in them because they expected them to be as independent as the Committee is independent, and they haven't done it, for example. And there's nothing even scandalous about it, so I'd say even spectacularly, that's our job, we wouldn't be doing our job if we didn't. So I ask you, therefore, to condemn without any intention to speak to these people, parliamentarians, colleagues, with these people, who are members of the Independent Committee in advance as political pressure. It's not political pressure. This is the Parliamentary Assembly, an institutional response to a state in which citizens are dissatisfied. And what they would ask me if I had nothing to do with it, which they do not ask the members of independent committees, and then they say, "You chose them, you gave them a mandate." Then we, of course, point to, say, yes, it is true, so let's ask them on behalf of the citizens and solve that vicious circle we're in. I wouldn't link it to any specific question, not the choice of this, not the shift of this, not anything else, it's just, it's just that when you take out a detail you can pull a story in one direction, and basically you won't get a final picture. So our goal is to determine in this way whether someone put pressure on, say, the members of the Independent Committee, which eventually prevented their independence, so that we as parliamentarians know whether it's all right or wrong. So, absolutely one correct activity, and I wouldn't judge any discussion in advance, God Bog, one of those members of the Independent 40 Committee, or our colleagues we choose, who will talk to them. There's nothing else, this isn't any investigation, so this is to check the answers to some questions and I think it's very correct and even useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u858	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. We don't have any more logs. So I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare for a plea. Of the 13 present – for it was 10, against them were 2.1 was abstention. So, from the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 2 were for, 2 against and 1 abstention. So there's a general majority. So, I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of Parliament to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in which we have appointed from the House of Nations: Dark Babalj, Halid Genjac and Maria Karamatić. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda, so, Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the term of office of members of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance from the House of Peoples At the 3rd session of the House of People, held on 30.03.2015, and at the 9th session of the House of Representatives held on 25.03.2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appointed members of the Interim Joint Commission for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. From the House of Nations were named: Ognjen Tadić, Sead Kadić and Zdenka Džambas. At its 16th session, held on 27.08.2015, the House of Representatives discussed and did not adopt the proposed candidate-list, and decided to extend the term of office to the members of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes with the task of accessing the new tender procedure for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. We are voting, therefore, on the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the mandate to the members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance from the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 who were present, all 13 were in favour, therefore there were no votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. So there's a general majority. 41 I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the extension of the mandate of the members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance from the House of Peoples. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement to ratify agreements, contracts and protocols. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 15 to 22, including item 22 of today's agenda. So now I'm opening a debate about what I said, about this proposal. Mr. Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u860	I just want to inform the House that the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy and Other Policies has proposed a proposal, in fact, for this House to adopt all these points, as you said, so 6 agreements, one contract and one protocol. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to warn you of one thing that seems important to me right now. Eight important things for Bosnia and Herzegovina are now on the agenda. We put it all together in one dot and we end it all with one button. So it's about contracts with other countries, cross-border cooperation contracts, communications, and we need to adopt that, because without our decision, the Presidency can't ratify this. So I remind you that we spent hours here discussing reports that we're receiving or not receiving, so we're practically not wondering anything. There's something wrong with our method of working. We're going to morati to change something and I suggest that the College think about it, but I'm staying with that first sentence that I said, the Commission I'm leading is proposing that we adopt this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-09-17-0.u861	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Radmanović. We'll definitely keep that in mind for the college you said. Are there any more reported? There's no record of a hearing. So I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote, so we're going to get to the bottom of this proposal. You can vote. Of the 12 present – for it was 11, versus 1, abstentioned none. From Federation of BiH 7 for, no one against, no one abstention. From RS 4 for, 1 against and no one was abstentioned. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So this proposal has been adopted. Ad. 15. - Ad. 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement and the Protocol You have also received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. 42 Mr. Radmanović, you are as chairman, if there is anything else. No, thank you. I'm opening a crack. Is there any envoy now, an envoy for word? If not, I'm closing the argument. We are now voting in favour of the ratification of the agreement, the Treaty and the Protocol from points 15 to 22, including item 22 of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreement, the Treaty and the Protocol from points 15 to 22, including item 22 of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I realize that this concludes the work of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so I conclude, that is, the 9th session. On the date of the next, the 10th session, you will, of course, be notified afterwards. Thank you very much. Session completed at 14:10 p.m.
