ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9764	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 21st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Export Credit Organisation whose information is on the agenda of today's session were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all MPs and guests. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić sent a notice that he will have to leave the session at 13 o'clock for an official trip. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak has sent a notice that for justified reasons he is unable to attend the House session. Thus, the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation, Miro Džakula, sent a notice that he would not be able to attend the session due to earlier commitments. Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić sent a notice that he was unable to participate in the 21st session due to his official trip. Human Rights Minister Semiha Borovac sent a notice that on behalf of this ministry the session will be attended by adviser Kemo Sarač until the minister arrives at the session. A delay in the session was announced by representatives Fehim Škaljić, Lazar Prodanović and Hazim Rančić. According to our service at this time, there are 36 representatives present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Damir Bećirović – BiH Foreign Minister Amir Fazlić – BiH Foreign Minister. Representatives Bećirović and Fazlić asked questions in oral form at the 19th session but did not receive an oral response due to the absence of BiH Foreign Minister, who was not present even last session of the House. A subsequent reply has been provided in writing to those questions, but MPs will be allowed to ask questions in oral form today, if, of course, they want to. Miroslav Milovanović -- the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, jasmin Emrić -- the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Representatives, so-called Milovanović and Emrić asked questions in oral form at the 20th session but did not receive an oral response due to the absence of the Council of Ministers chairman. Salko Sokolović – Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. He asked the question at the 20th session, did not receive an oral response due to the absence of a minister from last session of the House. Maja Gasal-Vražalica – Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH Nikola Špirić – Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH Aleksandra Pandurević – Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH Mirsad Đonlagić – Minister of Justice of BiH, 2 Saša Magazinović – Chairman of the Council of Ministers Dušanka Majkić – Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH Senad Šepić – Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Safer Demirović – Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Director of the Directorate for Irreversive Taxation. These announcements, in accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would takoċer like to remind you that the direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been secured, in accordance with Article 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The questions are... according to the order of arrival, and the MPs will put them in that order and ask them. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9765	Madam Chairman. I'll wait again to have a minister here in the O.R. and let's hear his answer in oral form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9766	Thank you. We move on to the parliamentary issue asked by MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9767	The Honorable Working Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. I'd still wait for the minister to show up. Partly satisfied with the answer I received in writing, but I would still like the minister to explain some things and some of the allegations from this answer, so I'd like to wait for the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9768	Thank you very much. I give the word to Miroslav Milovanović – a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9769	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you personally, to extend my condolences to you regarding the event that took place a few days ago. I welcome all my colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and everyone present today in the O.R. My question concerns the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Namely, Mr. Zvizdić in the exhibition that you exhibited, when the Parliamentary Assembly elected you to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you also said that one of your priorities is to form the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question is: Have you done anything about it and do you have the support of your coalition partners from Republika Srpska for these activities? Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9770	Thank you. Hello. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9771	Thank you very much. Dear present, without listing because we really have very little time for quality answers to such questions. Two minutes is not enough to get a man to just say hello and not answer, so I'll get right to the answer. So, with regard to the Ministry of Agriculture, I have said very precisely that I am sure that the time ahead will fully convince us that the formation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development at the state level is necessary and necessary because the challenges ahead of agriculture that are related to meeting the commitments undertaken on the road to the EU because the accession process inevitably requires adaptation and reform of the agricultural sector in line with EU requirements. And I am still behind my words, I firmly think and I firmly believe that there will come a time when, on the basis of positive political will, full understanding of the processes that are happening in the region, and especially in the EU, and with, of course, full respect for all our competences in this, or at the moment at which it happens, it will lead us towards a stronger harmonisation at this level, and eventually perhaps the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Because any of us who thinks we can become part of European integration processes, that we can withdraw funds from the EU and remain fragmented, not only in the agricultural segment but in every other segment, it is certainly wrong. So, this will not be allowed, Europe has its very clear rules, its very clear procedures and it has already shown us in the context of a significant Western Balkans fund, the Western Balkans Investment Fund, which has over 10 billion euros and where we could apply only to transport infrastructure projects so far, because we adopted the Transport Policy, and the adoption of the Transport Strategy is expected. There are three other sectors, such as energy, the environment and social issues. We will not be allowed to run any project without all state strategies and without determined procedures that will mean stronger harmonisation in this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9772	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9773	In that sense, I think that with agriculture, it will also happen that we will have to be much more harmonised, much more organised and, of course, possibly lead to the formation of agriculture. As far as education is concerned, I did not advocate the Ministry of Education, but rather that we will work on abolishing every form of discrimination, segregation, and politicization in education. I think our education system is really too fragmented, but that's what constitutional solutions are. We are legalists, we respect them, but we must go towards creating a knowledge society, towards societies that will be able, not to be mere applicators of innovative and technological solutions, but to participate ourselves in the process of development and to create a knowledge society without which there will be no overall development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9774	Thank you. Representative's comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9775	Thank you very much. Anyway, I expect, of course, an answer in writing and all I want to say is briefly. It makes a lot of sense what you were talking about, but I sincerely hope that this procedure will not be in the sense of imposing a solution, since the Constitution has made very clear what entity's competences are, so make sure that you make sure that if there is any other methodology to get to that goal, which you said, I think will be a big problem within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9776	Thank you. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9777	I thank the chairman. A warm greeting to all present. My question is – What activities have been carried out in this year, what has been done, and whether all the preparatory actions and procedures have been carried out by the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to open a permanent border crossing for the border traffic of tržački Raštel – kordunski Ljeskovac? A brief reminder: At the beginning of this year, I asked the question at which stage the process of opening the border crossing in question is. Then I received a reply that the State Commission for Integrated Border Management will work intensively to implement the Border Traffic Agreement. I am interested in what has been concretely done in this year, since the Republic of Croatia has built, that is, in the final phase, the construction of all the accompanying facilities and infrastructure needed to open the relevant small-scale transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9778	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9779	Thank you to the honourable representative for asking the question. I see the question is extremely important, because the same or similar question has been asked by the honourable representative Senad Šepić. You have received this question earlier, as you have said, from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, or the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, has already delegated its members in the form of mixed committees, which together with the Republic of Croatia, should make... and define border crossings and cross-border traffic. Unfortunately 5 The Republic of Croatia has recently appointed its members with great delay, so the mixed commissions have actually just begun their work. There are procedures you are also familiar with, the way this issue is delegated is, above all, a bilateral relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, so part must go through the Foreign Ministry, and the second part via the Commission for Integrated Management and Mixed, Mixed Commissions. We recently adopted the Strategy for Integrated Border Management at the Council of Ministers. Mixed committees have been formed and we really have the conditions to focus more seriously on this issue. Here I am – I have not personally been to the end, in this past period, involved in this issue, but I can tell you that I will now make a very serious commitment to this issue and to the opening of additional... within the questions to be asked by Mr Senad Šepić, and the cross-border crossing for travel and trade traffic on Izačić. So now we have the conditions, we have the Strategy, we have the mixed committees formed, and we are really going to engage together with the Indirect Taxation Administration and the State Commission to solve this issue of yours as soon as possible, and the question that will follow, all the questions that will follow within the initiative tabled by Mr Senad Šepić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9780	Thank you. Is there a representative comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9781	Of course, I understand everything that is necessary to consistently implement the Agreement and the way that mixed committees are run and formed, but this is a process that takes more than 10 years. We follow in the field what is done in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and we can say that in this year they have made very intensive preparations and very demanding construction works and in an investment sense significant investments. So one is built very, very freely, we can say, a modern border crossing that will meet the needs to which the same is being built. There are operating procedures necessary here to prepare both Bosnia and Herzegovina in due time for the opening of the border crossing in question. Do we have locational information, i.e. urban permission in Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and by Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the necessary facilities? Is it planned or why no timely activity has been initiated on our part in order to be ready to open this border crossing tomorrow? We don't see anything happening, unfortunately, in that sense, and I think we're set here. Despite our understanding that there was a need to align the appointment of a mixed committee, etc., but we should have followed that, at least the intensity of the works being carried out in the Republic of Croatia to be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9782	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9783	I estimate that we will again have some excuse that we did not start the procedure in due time and that, unfortunately, will take too long, and the citizens are very interested in resolving this 6 issues. I have emphasized it several times and ask the Council of Ministers to do everything possible to open this border crossing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9784	I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9785	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My regards to all those present in the O.R. My question is directed towards the ministry or foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Šarović. Last time I spoke a little bit on the subject, but here, just briefly. So, representatives of the EU Food and Veterinary Inspectorate in January of this(?) The years come from Dublin to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reason is, the reason for the visit is to check that we have fulfilled all the obligations of the Action Plan, including whether we have agreed with the EU the laws on food and veterinary, agriculture and rural development, so that we can be allowed to export milk to the EU in the coming period. What is important to note is that exactly this Action Plan was the reason why we continued exporting milk after that suspension at the beginning of this year. And here, I would ask the Minister to brief us briefly on whether these laws are prepared, when they will be in parliamentary procedure, or what is the co-operation of the Ministry in the Council of Ministers with the entity ministries from the competent auditor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9786	Answer, Foreign Trade Minister and Economic Relations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9787	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to say hello to all of you and take these two minutes. Here, the answer to the honourable MP was sent in writing, but I will use that as soon as possible to give an oral answer. As you know, we got a license for milk from the European Commission half this year. Prior to that, the adoption of the Action Plan, which I would say, was part of the agreement of all the structures in charge in this area, primarily the agriculture ministries of the Federation and Republika Srpska, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Veterinary Office. On the basis of this, at a ministerial conference in Banja Luka on 29th, we agreed that for the second time, because the first attempt failed, we would form a top expert team to work on these three laws that you mentioned, which, I would say, are part of the Action Plan. In this working body, representatives of the three ministries prepared the text of the draft food law, the Law on Veterinary and Amendments and the Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development after 6 meetings. 05.11. this year, so about a month ago, in the procedure, the procedure envisaged for the opinion of these three laws was delivered, and to this day we have not received the answers positive... negative. We expect, of course, that to happen in the next few days. We do not officially know that there have been objections to this text of the draft law, in particular the part relating to official controls, the approval of export facilities, and when it comes to the Veterinary Act, when it comes to the Food Law, the key issue is to split the Food Agency in Mostar into the part relating to the management and the part relating to the risk assessment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9788	Time. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9789	I hope everyone understands the importance of this moment. If we don't pass these three laws, it's a matter of exporting the milk that is, I'd say, one historic moment for all of us. And I'm optimistic, there's... and cooperation, I believe we'll succeed in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9790	Thank you. Does he have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9791	Here's a little bit. I thank the Minister for the information, silence me and then step forward the minister we don't see when we're going to realize this thing. What is essential to me is over 70 million KM milk exports to EU countries and, what we often forget to say, 1,000 jobs we will lose if we do not end up bringing this story in a positive way. Here, I would ask the Minister, or the Council of Ministers to take this issue seriously, that in February, possibly March, we would not come into a situation to suspend the export of milk and then lose jobs, I will say first, and then the money that, I say, is needed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because in many ways and in our responsibilities we obtain to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9792	Thank you. I give my word to my representative, Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9793	I thank the chairman. I thus welcome all present. My question is about paying off the savings stakes of the Ljubljana Bank's savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia issued a public call in 02.11.2015 for the verification of outstanding old foreign deposits of the Ljubljanska Banka savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. It is stated that Bosnia and Herzegovina is being saved to decide on the requirements of the responsibilities until the data set out in Article 9(4) of the Law of the Republic of Slovenia on how to enforce the European Court of Human Rights, which provides for the conclusion of the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Since various information has appeared in the media about the conclusion of this Memorandum, i.e. it is not completed, and on the Council of Ministers' website a statement has been made from the 32nd meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH on receiving information from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury on this matter without information on its contents, please answer me – What are the obligations of the Council of Ministers in preparation for the Memorandum and when will the Council of Ministers end their part of the job, and what are the reasons why it has not been completed so far and when do you assume that the Memorandum will be concluded and the conditions for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get their money from the savings stakes of the Bank of Ljubljana? Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9794	The answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9795	Greetings to the president, to the members of the College, to the honourable MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to sublime the answer to these two questions in one answer and I think I'm going to give you an explanation and a real picture. The Republic of Slovenia has requested data on foreign exchange savings at the main branch of the Ljubljanska Banka in Sarajevo from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury since 9 March 2015. proslijeċen proposal for a memorandum based on the law provided by the Republic of Slovenia was also passed. We immediately forwarded this note and the proposal to the Federal Ministry of Finance, which has all the information available through the appointed guardian by the Federation Government. I must stress that the proposed Memorandum went far beyond what the contents of the Court's judgment in Strasbourg and imposed some provisions that simply could not, cannot be fulfilled realistically. The note was delivered... The Ministry of Finance who collected all the data requested on foreign exchange savings... and in electronic form with all the reasons. [[You don't understand.]] We forwarded data to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately upon receipt of this document on 10.06., as well as data on the cost of saving in the privatisation process with an explanation of the legal basis for the delivery of this data. The data were sent to the Ministry of Finance of Slovenia through our Embassy in Ljubljana. Based on the information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers proposed to establish a section with a view to agreeing with Slovenian representatives on proposals to resolve all issues in question, which relate to the delivery of verification data, as well as the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9796	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9797	a harmonised Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation. At the initiative of the Minister of Finance, i.e. my, on 02.12. at the Ministry of Finance, we held a working meeting in connection with the implementation of the verdict. The meeting was attended by representatives, or the Federation Finance Minister, a representative of the Central Bank,... before the court. On the basis of its conclusion, the Ministry of Finance addressed the foreign ministry the following day with a proposal that Bosnia and Herzegovina initiates an urgent meeting of the two countries at an expert level and that... resolutions of all issues, as a possibility and form of conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding, which would then be the basis for the delivery of the requested data. If you need documentation, but here's the time formatting, it's a real picture. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9798	Thank you. Does he have any commentary? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9799	9 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9800	Thank you very much. I give my word to Agent Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9801	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9802	I'm sorry, but we just don't see that your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9803	... On the basis of which... as time goes on longer, I think that certain ministries or ministers are slowly, without respect for the laws and regulations, slowly entering the anarchy sphere. [[no microphone turned on]] But if that's the choice of this parliamentary majority I have nothing, actually, and that I have nothing against I can't change, but I want to actually warn that even the worst laws are better than anarchy that can be produced. In line with this, I continue to ask the parliamentary question to Minister Osmanović, with the fact that I want to inform you that, therefore, I am asking Minister Osmanović to answer – on the basis of which law and sublaw he appointed the officials of the board of directors and supervisors of the 7th so-called Board of Supervisors. an institution of cultural importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina? Since the "Official Messenger", number 89/15, since 23.11.2015, I am curious whether the Council of Ministers has given consent to the appointment because it is not seen from the preamble of this solution? That we don't use media inscriptions, tower stories, I know that consent doesn't exist within the Ministry itself, not the Council of Ministers. The minister calls for a Memorandum of Understanding with the aim of supporting the work of cultural institutions of general importance and benefits for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2018, so I ask – Is this Memorandum an official act of the Council of Ministers of BiH, given that Minister Osmanović, as far as I know, did not have the agreement of the Council of Ministers to sign this Memorandum? I expected, after illegal detachment from the budget reserve for salaries and employees' fees at the Earth Museum, that the competent institutions would deal with this issue and check for possible abuse of powers. Why am I asking this as a question? Not because I don't think people should have salaries and fees there, but because this is the process of creating new budget beneficiaries which will complicate the financial situation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9804	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9805	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, esteemed MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that, in a particular case, Reverend Špirić, this is not about what happened. to institutions of cultural engagement for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to exist as undisputed legal facts. I would ask you to write this down and see "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 66/92, 13,/93, 9/95, 37/95 in which the laws and regulations are published... 7 cultural institutions defined as public institutions in the field of culture and museum activities of public interest for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, follower of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All of these regulations remain in force, and by force of the provisions of Articles 1 and Annex II of the BiH Constitution until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Constitutional Court decides otherwise. I would also ask you to read the letter of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 14 March 2007 as well as the Opinion of the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina of 03/09/2015, given in accordance with Article 5. Anexa X of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with none of the mandated proponents ever disputed before the BiH Constitutional Court the legal continuity of any of the mentioned institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's culture, but disputed only through political statements. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the mentioned institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina culture preserve the cultural heritage of all peoples in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in their possession are mobile and immovable properties owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's property and property rights, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's cultural heritage
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9806	Time. ADIL
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9807	to which numerous international conventions have been joined by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Council of Ministers at its 16th session, held on 23 July 2015, on the basis of information submitted by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, gave the BiH Minister's consent to ensure, in co-operation with other interested entities, solutions to current issues – governance, administrative and financial issues on a provisional basis until the final solution to their legal status. I'd have more, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9808	Thank you, Minister. Is there a representative comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9809	Actually, I do. I asked specific questions, and I got questions. which is being invoked in '91. A year. And it is not unknown that fellow Osmanović as minister and others are trying to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina back to '91. in all institutions and institutions of culture. But I say on the basis of what law? Here it calls for a decision by the Council of Ministers, which is so formalised that it gives and does not give the right, and then gives it the right to create anarchy in public, that some of them do not agree, and essentially, counterpart Osmanović says they have agreed. I'm just asking... I'm asking for it to be delivered to me in writing. All of what counterpart Osmanović had was listed, but I claim that the law is being broken here, new budget users are being created and that we will have problems. I am for things to be regulated, but to call the laws in every area when they come to mind in '91. The year actually opens political turbulence needlessly. And I call on ministers to follow the law, so they don't have V.D. to V.D. Well, that's by the law in this country. So, if someone's goal is to create anarchy, they'll create it and produce it. That's not the point to me, and I'm warning you, so if there's no power in the Council of Ministers to keep people to the law, it's that 11
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9810	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9811	Every minister has been given the opportunity to conclude agreements and memoranda itself, and that doesn't lead us anywhere and it won't help these institutions of culture. Thank you very much. ...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9812	Thank you. Written probably. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Excuse me, Minister. You'll probably be delivering it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9814	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My question is to the esteemed finance minister. In fact, media reported that some institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have open accounts and funds that remain trapped in the Serbian Bank, which is failing. The millions amount, or tens of millions of marks, is mentioned, so I'm curious – are the correct media information that BiH Electroprenos has captured 10 million in the Bank of Serbia, that the IRS has five accounts there and if there is what amount on them? And otherwise, which institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether they are budget users or whether they are the founder of Bosnia and Herzegovina alone, have accounts in the Serbian Bank, which are the amounts in those accounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9815	Thank you. The answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9816	The BiH indirect taxation administration had open accounts in the Bank of Serbia and at the time of the provisional administration's entry in the accounts there were a total of 3,920 marks. The finance ministry does not have data on whether Elektroprenos had open accounts in the Bank of Serbia and how much funds remained blocked at the time of the temporary administration's inauguration because the Ministry is not competent and does not keep records of open accounts of institutions not financed by budget funds. In accordance with Articles 2 and 25. The law on the financing of institutions, budgetary users cannot have open transaction accounts without the consent of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury which also finds that the Ministry of Finance and 12 vaults have no open accounts with Banka Srpska. It is also a finding that we do not have the information whether some of the institutions whose founder is Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are not financed from the budget, have open accounts in the Bank of Serbia for the reason that there is no prescribed jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence to record the open accounts of these institutions, nor is it their obligation to report open accounts to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. In spite of all this, I would also point out that the supervisory supervision of the banking sector is carried out by entity banking agencies, and we have prepared a letter to the Republika Srpska Banking Agency requesting that the data you requested be delivered to us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9817	Thank you. Does he have any commentary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9818	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9819	Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9820	I thank the Madam Chairman and at the same time welcome all present in the O.R. So, a while ago, I asked all the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a well-known case of the Tuzla Gate. The answer I received points to something that I can characterise as an incredible failure and irresponsibility in the work, because the fugitive and convicted General Đukić, who is currently in Serbia according to unofficial information, has not yet been prosecuted, or any judicial institution from Bosnia and Herzegovina has not launched, in accordance with the International Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, a request for prosecution or for the administration of a sentence of sentencing. In this regard, I too ask the Minister of Justice – will the BiH Justice Ministry, in line with its capabilities, and above all with its obligations, ask the Republic of Serbia to process fugitive General Đukić? And let me also say that in the meantime, an NGO in Tuzla has filed a criminal complaint against the judge in question. So, the matter takes a pretty serious proportion and I pray and appeal to the Ministry of Justice that, in accordance with its obligations and possibilities, in this case reacts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9821	Answer, BiH Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9822	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. Honorable MPs and deputies, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. 13 Judges from Bosnia and Herzegovina can be executed in another country only if it is prescribed by the International Treaty. Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia are bound by the Treaty on the able-made enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. Pursuant to the provisions of that Treaty, persons convicted in one State may maintain a prison sentence in another State by giving the court responsible for the execution of the prison sentence to the BiH Ministry of Justice in order to comply with the procedure and by applying the relevant documents provided for in the Treaty after which the judgment, by the competent court of the requested State, is first recognised and subsequently executed. Acting on a request from the BiH Court, the BiH Ministry of Justice on 06.11.2015, pursuant to the Treaty on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, referred to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia for the taking over of a 20-year sentence against the condemned citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Novak Đukić, sentenced on 11 April 2014 and for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population referred to in Article 142(1) of the SFRJ Penal Code. In view of the fact that the sentenced in addition to Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship also has the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, existing contracts in the area of international legal aid do not provide for the possibility of submitting an extradition application, so the BiH Court of Justice decided to apply to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia for the taking over of the sentence in prison.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9823	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9824	Acting on the plea, the court of the requested state will, in agreement with the above-mentioned Treaty, impose a prison sentence in accordance with the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which is related to the established factual situation on which a court ruling was made in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9825	Thank you. Does he have any commentary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9826	I thank you for the answer we received from Mr. Justice Minister, but at the same time I would like to conclude that it was simply incomprehensible that the initiative or questions raised here had to be awaited and that the criminal charges against the judge in question had to be pending and that the court in charge only then responded. It is simply unacceptable and I appeal to all judicial institutions, especially the Ministry of Justice, that, in similar cases, if this occurs, it does not wait for questions to be raised in this way, let's conditionally say, and pressure, legal pressure on the appropriate institutions to start these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9827	I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9828	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you, your deputies, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers and all others present. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which concerns European integration, which is a coordination mechanism which, unfortunately, we cannot obtain information as representatives, and in the media we can find information that something has been agreed on, that with some agreement we are going to Brussels. And that once again shows intransparency in the activities that we are leading on the European path. He chaired his exposé, which is an inexhaustible source of topics for parliamentary issues for me, among other things said that the coordination mechanism is the one vote from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would overcome the absence of a professional and political mechanism to resolve disputes between the state and entities, which I agree with, the cantons in this exposé did not mention. takoċer, he said, it is undeniable that the coordination mechanism is needed for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that he wonders why there has been a drastic reduction of competence from the European Integration Directorate's activities, since the issue of European integration is exclusively the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is how I agree. meċutim, after becoming the chairman of the Council of Ministers, these positions have experienced their correction, so now we have an intensive, although public and we also have unclear announcements of a coordination mechanism in which in one way, I say vaguely again, to participate and lower levels of government, in this case cantons that have their powers that no one disputes. My question regarding the coordination mechanism is this – what role will the municipalities of Usor and pocket be involved in and how will the coordination mechanism be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9829	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9830	I'm thinking whether to respond in an equally provocative way or be patient and respond in a way that should be answered by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, right? So I've answered this question many times. Your question has been defined and formulated in another way and from now on I will answer only those questions that I get clearly formulated, when we talk about oral issues being raised by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Since this is at least the tenth time that I answer the same question, and most of these questions came from the same representative, I repeat once again that all levels of government will be included within the coordination mechanism in accordance with their original constitutional competences. If you think that, for example. Cantons in education don't have original jurisdiction then I'd like you to explain it to me, to deliver it to me, and that according to such new constitutional changes, which I haven't heard of, we are acting further accordingly and in defining the coordination mechanism. Of course, when the coordination mechanism is fully defined, and the alignment is under way,... it will first and foremost be formed by competent governments and competent parliaments, including this esteemed House of Representatives. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9831	Thank you, Chairman. Does he have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9832	Of course there's a comment. First of all, this is nothing provocative, I have asked you a specific question, the Honorable Chairman, which you do not know the answer to. So my particular question is – what will be the role of the municipalities of Usor and the pocket in the coordination mechanism? It is clearly unknown to you, and you should be aware that these two municipalities have received original jurisdiction in these areas, i.e. areas of education and culture, and that they have virtually canton status in these areas. That should be familiar, obviously not. takoċe you should know that these two municipalities have asked to participate equally in the Ministerial Conference where the education ministers of two entities and 10 cantons participate. The Constitutional Court of the Federation in 2009 gave the municipality pocket the original jurisdiction in the field of education and culture, and the municipality of Usora...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9833	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9834	So my question was very specific, because they have original jurisdiction as well as cantons, in which way you will include them. The question was not provocative, but the question was such that it showed in fact how to access this coordination mechanism superficially and how it does not have facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9835	I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, my question has been asked by the foreign minister, and as we can see, he's not here today either. It's bad that we'll have to keep an eye on a minister when he comes, and here's the case that this minister is quite often absent. But that would not be the most frightening thing to do if in the hands of a political party that does not have any ambassadors in the Parliamentary Assembly or MPs or delegates, Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. I wanted to ask a question in terms of – What happens in foreign policy without judging on the basis of its travels, that is, what happens in the ministry headquarters and in the DKP network? That's the answer this Parliament should have. And many countries are intensively discussing this issue, and we alone don't know what's going on or where we are. So, I can't ask the question because there is no minister, but I would ask that until the next House session, when I expect to have the opportunity to ask that question, to provide me with information on how far has the House of Representatives session been present? Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9837	Thank you, counsel. Here, since we don't have a foreign minister we'll leave an answer for the next session. I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9838	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So my question is indicative of the position of border and border crossings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What the Council of Ministers and BiH institutions are doing specifically to make more functional and equipment border crossings in the space of the Unsko-San canton with special emphasis on: a) Opening of additional lanes at the border crossing of Maljevac-Hukića Brdo in Velika Kladuma; (b) Equipment and construction of infrastructure at the small-border crossing of Tržačka Rastela-Cazin and its retegorisation into the border crossing for travel traffic; (c) Integration of the Izačić-Bahac border crossing on the list of crossings from the EU, which fully facilitate the transport of all plant and animal origin goods. Very short explanation: So it's about three things. First, three months ago, I submitted an initiative to respond to the opening of the additional tape, something he was saying today to the chairman, and I'm going to ask for an even more concrete answer. Secondly, in 2013, I referred a parliamentary question and an initiative related to resolving the status of small-scale transitions and initiatives related to the provision of passes to citizens living in these areas. So, given that the Republic of Croatia is already completing the construction of the infrastructure at this small border crossing of Tržačka Rastela, it is important that both Bosnia and Herzegovina be involved in reacting on their own side. Secondly, it urgently initiates the retegorisation of this small-scale transition to the border crossing for the traffic of passengers and traffic, given the high need of citizens from this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the use of the same. In 2013, initiatives were also put forward to ensure that the border crossing of Izačić was made possible for the border crossing of all goods of plant and animal origin, and this is particularly important for the development of agriculture and economy, as it is known that this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the largest producer of milk, in order to facilitate the export of these goods to EU countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9839	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9840	Thank you. Here, as I said, when answering the first question today's parliamentary question, these are really very important issues raised by the distinguished representative Šepić. He has, of course, asked these questions to the Directorate for indirect taxation and to the Ministry of Security. There were answers but I see that certain questions were raised only in 2013, some three or more months ago. I repeat, therefore, we have new circumstances now, or much more positive and quality 17 conditions to start solving these issues, from the Strategy to the formation of mixed committees, and here, since I was not really personally involved in these issues in the previous period, I can tell you that I will be very serious about these issues and that you, as well as the esteemed representative Emrić, will have very precise answers to all these three questions for the next 10 or 15 days. I think that both the first and the second and third questions can be high-quality and run in one optimal time frame and solved. There are also resources and opportunities for opening additional strips and for new categorization of crossings both on Izačić and on the construction of infrastructure at the crossing of Tržačka Rastela – Cazin. We will, of course, agree on the deadlines, assess the financial capacity, but here I can say that we will certainly start each of these questions that you asked today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9841	Thank you. Does he have any commentary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9842	Well, I very quickly... comment. So this is encouraging to hear in this way. In the next 10 to 15 days, here we are in front of the public saying that we will have one more concrete step. I think it's generally important that we change politics and our political logic, that instead of some defensive, we move on to offensives. It is especially important to say for these things, now that we have this yield, given that the border with Croatia and borders towards the EU, this, let's say, is a positive climate that we have in the country to use to show it specifically to people living in this area what our steps on the European path mean. So, here, I've been here to myself for the next 30 days to have that final answer, but if we have it in 15 days, we'll keep working on this. And I really expect that this thing, given that, I said, three years ago, I institutionally launched it here in Parliament, and before me, people were looking for it when it comes to local communities from the space of the UN-Sancanton, I believe that now is the time to deal with this most seriously and to inform the public that we have finished that part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9843	Thank you. I give the word to Representative Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9844	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. My question is addressed to the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and it reads – How many persons are employed at the Directorate for Direct Taxation in the period from 01.12.2014 to 01.12.2015? What are the persons employed, the way of employment, is this based on the employment contract, on the decision of the Agency for State Service or on the basis of the competition? One brief explanation: In the previous session of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, we had one information, a report by the Indirect Taxation Administration where... a serious discussion concerning the work of this institution itself and how to make this work transparent and how to mitigate corruption that 18 is possibly universal in this institution. In particular, there was talk of a negative perception of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship towards this institution, i.e. according to the Directorate for indirect taxation. Now that from the media, when I found out, and I believe some of you, that over 60 people are employed in this period at the Department of Direct Taxation, and by being guided by what is represented by the Directorate for indirect taxation to work, my question is addressed and I'm interested in what are the persons who are employed in this period? Also, since you are at the beginning, it seems to me, that there is no director present at this session, and that I would not now wait and repeat this question from the session to the session while he is present, I would pray that, if he is not present, that I be provided with an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9845	Thank you very much. Here, first of all, I will remind the MPs for all others, in accordance with Article 171, we said at the beginning of the session, MPs may ordinarily ask questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, or to an individual member of the BiH Council of Ministers at the beginning of each first session of the House in the month, before the debate on the agenda with direct television transmission. Since your question isn't raised on this, you yourself said you were expecting a written answer, this question will be sent to a written answer, only if someone wants from the Council of Ministers, and I realized no, in this case we will forward your answer to receive as written by the Board of Implicit Taxation. Here, at this point, we've exhausted all the parliamentary questions and answers. I thank the chairman and all the ministers for their answers. Now we're moving on to establishing the session's agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to note this. It is added to the agenda: point 11. Rang list of successful candidates for the appointment of five members of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Criminal Procedure of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the PSBiH, issue: 01,02-50-14-803-4,8/15 of 30.11.2015. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 3. Information on the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, carried out on 18.11.2015, as well as on the overall state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, adopted at the 20th session, held on 24.11.2015). – was removed from the agenda by the College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition. The information will be discussed at the 4th emergency session of the House of Representatives, which will be held one hour after the end of the 21st session of the House. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9846	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 19 So yesterday I delivered one material to the parliamentary procedure in accordance with Article 71. It is, therefore, about the conclusions I have proposed, the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the dispute against decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH. I intended to propose this today in accordance with the relevant business provisions to enter the agenda, but I was informed that yesterday a session of the College was held on which it was voted, even though I was invited to Article 71, which we know how a point can be proposed on the agenda. In any case, I would like to thank my colleagues who have supported this in the agenda, but I also thank these colleagues who did not support it at this time. I know they didn't want to, but they did me and the SDP Club a favor, because now there's a possibility that when we reach the proposed Constitutional Court Act of certain parties here, that day I should propose these conclusions, both in this form or in some modified form, perhaps even in some modified form. Since I made a public announcement yesterday at the press conference, I was obliged to say, so that point I was going to propose today, I'm not going to propose today, but at the next probably session of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9847	Thank you very much. As MP Bećirović does not propose this point for today's session, I do not see any more reported at this time. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9848	...came forward here there, here's Damir, in time it was just...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9849	I didn't see, I apologize. Damir Bećirović, a debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9850	I have to look back a little bit on the College of Yesterday, what we had at the College for taking off the agenda, this information on security and a terrorist act in Rylovac. I'm still thinking that she should have, a special session was supposed to be before this session, before the regular session, and only after that. So there were some other things that were not properly analysed, and therefore I propose a new agenda item to be included – Information on the ongoing investigation by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and in connection with granting consent to ratification of the state border contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. And that point to put on the agenda. And because of further consultations, the DF Club is asking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9851	Here, first of all, we give a half-hour break to search for the DF Club. I ask the MPs to sit down and proceed with the session. I'd like Agent Damir Bećirović to explain the request for a break. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9853	The reasons were to determine the number of voters in the previous session, who voted in favour of the Agreement. And we did it through video footage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9854	Thank you. At this point, we have a proposal, we have other representatives on the agenda. Representative Saša Magazinović called. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9855	Well, you see, the chairman, we had a fixed agenda where the first item was, after commenting on the answers to parliamentary questions – a secure security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special aspect of the events of the last, terrorist. And that conclusion thus contained the deadline of November 30th, it seems to me, when we were to receive material as representatives. The Council of Ministers did not respect the deadline, and thus again came to light on the lack, let's say, of coordination between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, and we can say, in one way, and disrespect for Parliament's conclusions. We at the SDP Club understand new political circumstances and political arrangements, a request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, and I think that will come to order, it is not controversial, but we believe that a very bad message is being sent, taking off the agenda of the topic – a secure security situation, giving priority to the subject – the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, as it is done on the agenda, and for today only after the end of this session is the special session, where it will be a topic. I really needed to point out, once again, not to slow down political circumstances and agreements and requests for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. meċutim, I sincerely hope that if that reconstruction is carried out, that personal positions will not have priority over such an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9856	Thank you. The word is represented by Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9857	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The SDP Club is quite concerned with the information that we have received from our DF colleagues that some of the activities provided in the prosecution's methods are taking place against this Parliament or in relation to the work of this Parliament. For that reason, and in order to get additional information, we're looking for a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9858	21 [[not included microvon]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9859	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and I'm taking a 30-minute break at the SDP Club's request. Dear MPs and MPs, we continue with the session and ask the president of the SDP Club to explain the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9861	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, in my announcement of a break, I said that we are amazed by the fact that the prosecution is leading some investigations, or some activities, against this House. We needed more information, we got to them, and as far as we're concerned, we're continuing our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9862	Thank you. We have concluded the debate on the agenda. During the debate on the agenda, we had some comments, which we had already looked back on, and we had a proposal for a agenda point, Damir Bećirović – Information on the ongoing investigation by the BiH Prosecutor's Office in connection with giving consent to the ratification of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Dearlywed, I really thought that the representatives knew the business provisions, we have a memo that we received from the BiH Prosecutor's Office that we were considering on our College and we have taken certain positions on this issue. This is not material and we cannot place any other material, the specific material of the BiH Prosecutor's Office on the agenda, and of course you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, had the right to deliver or propose a point with the material, in accordance with Article 71. At the beginning of the session, a representative and any authorised applicant shall have the right to request the absence of a non-binding item and to propose a new one, with the relevant material in writing. Since we did not get in line with the Rules of Procedure, here I conclude another debate on this agenda point and I agree that the 21st session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence of BiH - Proposer: President of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1,477/15, of 20.11.2015; 22 4. Request of MPs: Borislav Bojić, Nermine Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica and Damir Arnaut to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-4-1493/15 of 26.11.2015; 5. Report of the College's Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the amendment of MP Damir Arnaut's amendment to the Asylum Law (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No: 01,02-02-1-12/15 of 06/08/2015; 6. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1 12/15 of 06.08.2015. (second reading); 7. Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Haiti – Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-02-1-1481/15 of 20.11.2015; 8. Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01-50-1-15-16/15, link number: 01-50-1-853/15, of 28.10.2015. (Realisation of the initiative of MP Senad Šepić, adopted at the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 27.08.2015).; 9. Information on the assessment of the situation at the BiH Export-Credit Agency with proposed strategic options, the BiH Export-Credit Agency material, No: 01,02-50-19-487/15 of 12.11.2015; 10. Consideration of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly initiative Jasmina Emrić, submitted on 17.11.2015, which reads as follows: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings (hereinafter referred to as: the Treaty), initiates the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty in order to re-tegorise the permanent border crossing for border traffic of Kordunski Leskovac – Tržačka Rastela to the border crossing for the international road traffic of passengers." Number: 01-50-1471/15 of 17.11.2015; 11. Rang-list of successful candidates for the appointment of five members of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Criminal Procedure of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for the acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the PSBiH, No: 01,02-50-14-803-4,8/15 of 30.11.2015; 12. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden on Development Cooperation 2014-2020, No: 01,02-05-2-1480/15 of 20.11.2015. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've all got a record. Any objections to the record? Debate, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9864	I thank the chairman. 23 The record we received as representatives and representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly does not correspond to the fact that Mr Bosić was then chairman, since we came through the media and in the possession of the audio record, that we have exhausted all the possibilities that the Rules of Procedure prescribes that we react in due time, we from the DF Club have made observations. It is true that, after the failure of the electronic vote, we have the right to manifest ourselves by raising the ballot, which is prescribed by Article 87, which we all did. meċutim, when we look at the record, all the points say that there were 37 MPs and MPs present. When we look at how many MPs and MPs voted from the Federation of BiH and how many from the RS, we will see that the 89th point absolutely does not offer that information. In the previous point, that's the 88th point, we have 36 votes for, without votes against and 1 abstention, as 37 participants will say. This point in 89 says, 22 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 4 votes abstentioned, without advocacy, and as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and by Rule 91 that you are required as chairman to specify from the entity's field as much as anyone voted, you have not done so. In the audio recording, it is precisely known that colleagues from the last bench, as well as representatives from the DF, and others have demanded that, according to this reading, each individual, is even heard that Mr. Džaferović returns his colleague Ahmetović, whom even his handbag stuck there in one corner, returned to return, to fulfill his representative duty, but of course he left this hall regardless of whether he was the subject of the media and the public, you, as chairman, or as a College, did not do so. Here is the commendable activity of the BiH Prosecutor's Office which shows one seriousness, one change that we can make and, i.e. to support under this Reform Agenda, that it will deal with this highest legislative body and determine the irregularities that you as a College seem to be carrying out in practice that will become a practice to show that one force, that you are not a primus interpares, but that you will do what you like as a College and in a way that is only known to you and that is nowhere in the record. The Democratic Front will not support the Record in this way. It is takoċe prescribed that the public is also transparently via the web portal, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly should be familiar with the zapisnik, which you have only two days before this session and you have again cited 22 votes for, 10 against and 4 abstentions. Gentlemen, I ask you, where did that one voice go? Even that representative or representative who didn't want any charts to blow up, you should have stated that one of us, or one of us, had not declared herself to be, neither against, nor abstention. I call upon all colleagues and colleagues not to support and respond to this criminal act, I would call you as a College and your obsession with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9865	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9866	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Just to maybe correct what my colleague Maja said, that I didn't run away from the public, I voted for all the points that were voted on that day and after the vote on the 24 last agenda, because people after the lengthy extension of the session, some were waiting here near this parlametan. Of course, so I really didn't run away from any of the public, I'm ready to do what I do and how I vote to hold a press conference and say how I am and why I voted. So, I have my reasons, my explanation for why I voted the way I voted. Of course I respect the arguments and those that were against or abstained, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9867	Thank you. Your Honor, you've reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure. This applies to both you and everyone else, if you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must refer to which article, which is the injury. Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. I hope you'll all be up in the future...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9868	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9869	And Damir Arnaut, I apologize, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9870	Thank you. I referirati to Article 79, point 5a), point (a) to the time of Members and others present. I think the finding of a colleague on the criminal acts of members of the College falls under this time of the Parliament. I, when she was concerned about, when she suffered an insult, pointed out exactly this same article and attitude and point, but now I feel exactly, and for that, among other things, to point out that the suggestion that members of the College committed a crime by acting under the Rules of Procedure when the electronic voting system broke down, so they asked to vote with cards, is really excessive, and I think it's the time of the MPs, or members of the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9871	Correction of the false quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9872	First I'm going to correct my colleague Arnaut. I didn't say it was a criminal act just because we moved on to a card vote, or a plea. Of course the Rules of Procedure allow it. It's criminally what 37 have the docks, 36 voted, and it's not listed from which entity, and we see that the prosecution has launched some determined activities, which is why it is at this point that the voting system falls, it returns to the next point, the system returns in a minute, and it can be voted on, and we, as representatives, are asking to vote again on point 89, where the College does not allow us to do so. And I want Mr Ahmetović, and the audio and video that we came to and owned by the DF, as well as the media published it, shows exactly how your co-chairing colleague, Šefik Džaferović, is asking you to return, Sadik, come back to join the 25th vote again, 89th, and even states – there is no problem to repeat the vote. But of course that never happened, because you got out of the O.R. right away, probably the phone rang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9873	Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9874	Here, I'd like to briefly try to clarify this situation because I had to run that session by force. Please, if you can listen, I'll be brief. So it is true that the system broke down in the area of the hall when there was a vote on that agenda point, the distinction with Montenegro, and that I tried twice or three times to repeat the vote, and it turned out that it was not possible to vote electronically on that point. After that, we voted according to the Rules of Procedure to raise hands, or cards. The professional service counted the cards, gave the report, read that report. Let me remind you, no one asked for a re-election, nor expressed doubts about the vote at that time. We went to the polls on the next item of the agenda. What probably intrigued everything about how the electronic system was working at that time, and it worked and it voted electronically on that agenda point and the session was over. At that time, we accepted some of the MPs' protests, even past the Rules of Procedure, to see the opportunity to repeat now the electronic voting that was held again. meċutim, part of the MPs came out, and part of the MPs said he was not ready to do so, because the vote was concluded on all points of the agenda. And the session is over. And let me give you some information about the D.A.'s office. The prosecution sought information as to why the internet transmission of sessions was interrupted in some part of the session, not why it was voted one way or the other, or anyone who expressed any doubt in the vote. So the D.A.'s request is to see why it wasn't in a certain time period of Internet transmission for outside viewers. The College discussed the situation, concluded that it was responding to the prosecution and concluded that it was required by Parliament's Professional Services to provide an accurate report on what happened to the electronic system at that time. That's all the information you've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9875	Thank you, Deputy Bosić. Šefik Džarerović, such a fellow deputy, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9876	Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9877	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mirsad Mešić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9878	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9879	I thank you for your understanding. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9880	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'd ask before using heavy qualifications, especially for one of us, us among ourselves, to think twice. A hard word is a dangerous thing, and we all need to refrain from it. To say that the College has committed a crime or criminal act, as I understand it, is something that is, not only offensive to this College, it is much more than just an insult. Just the explanation of Lady Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, after saying this about the behaviour of individual members of the College, clearly points to the conclusion that there was nothing that could be qualified, because there is no reason if someone from the College says it is not disputed to vote again, to invite people to remain in the same state of the room. Obviously, it can be read that there was a good will by those of us sitting up there to finish it. We couldn't because part of the MPs stood up to it. And as soon as you don't have a consensus, then what we found in the vote remains. And here that's not the point at all, here's the point that the decision has been made. We've voted, we've determined the result, no one's objecting to that. The D.A.'s turned to the College. We will respond to the D.A.'s office, and we have ordered that this case be investigated because it's really suspicious to the public how 88 points go right, that 89 of the three attempts doesn't go at all when it comes to electronic voting and that 90 goes again. If we had hidden what we were hiding, then I guess we'd be voting that 90th wheel of cardboard, we wouldn't be going back to an electronic vote. So, indeed, neither Mr. Bosić nor I had anything or anything that could qualify as qualified. And here's what I'm informing you about. Please, we'll investigate this. So we have given the order and Parliament will be informed of this. As for Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's remarks on the record. That remark should be adopted here, along with this zapisnik. I propose and then let the services investigate and inform Parliament what the problem is. Have him compare the audio footage, compare the physical count that was done here. It's in our interest to know the truth and nothing else. So, but the ratification decision has been made, there is no dilemma. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9881	Mirsad Mešić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. One more apology to the representative for the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9882	Thank you, ma'am, it's no problem. I actually want to confirm that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the fact that it was written in the record by an unsuitable, or incorrect number of courtesans. The exit from this crisis is partly the second vice-president's said, and here I suggest we vote today not on this record, but on the corrected minutes we vote at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9883	Thank you very much. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go. Saša Magazinović. I'm asking you to sign in on time. At the moment I announced the debate, I had no record. Please, let's be serious. If someone plans to fix it or sign up for a hearing to do it on time. Zaim Backović. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9884	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my fellow Members of the Council of Ministers today, not to mention them, guests. So far I have not responded to the minutes and stenograms of the session, but this is still something that is a very harsh violation of what we have sworn to this state. And I will use the discussion to tell my esteemed colleagues, amongst you Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Bosić, who have now come out. I, Zaim Backović, got up and I was silenced when I got up and asked after, when all the MPs were here, after it was seen that the next point was normally voted, to vote. You didn't allow it. That's what you have on the audio footage that he owns. So you didn't allow it. The next harsh violation of what has been defined as business, which is why you claim that it has passed, and that entity has passed, when we do not have how it has been voted and how has it been voted? What makes you relevant to that, that? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I don't understand you. When I said - okay, no electronics, let's individually know exactly who is who, and that's where you shut me up, you didn't give. Even in a stenogram, or audio recording, I apologize, Sadik I apologize for my procedure, it's clear when I say, Sadik, don't run away, because let's vote now, you shut me up. Yeah, yeah, you keep me quiet for saying that. Because these are very big questions when it comes to the state. And not that it's doubtful, but everyone's talking about it. And it's a delirious doubt, how it's possible that from 90 dots all okay, one doesn't, and then again okay. You know, I'm an engineer. It's something that's under the big question book, under the big one. Is that not what you want to know how who and how he thinks, votes and names know who we are and what we're for? The graċani have the right to know who, how and how they vote. Besides, it's an obligation. Of course, I won't. In the future, I haven't, but I'm a big fan of the record. Don't hair what we say. A special story is what I was saying about audits. I'd like you to read it, as transferred. 99% of those words they wrote there, I didn't say. I have it written, it's read from the written text. What does this mean? If they don't know him, let them call, ask for a written text. And it wouldn't be worse to think about what it is, how and how it is exactly when it comes to something of the state's interest to shut down the system. I said this so the D.A. will chase me down, shut the system down, and turn it back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9886	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9887	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I Referiš to Article 81. Rules of Procedure which regulates the discussion of the minutes. Stav (2) says - the MP has the right to comment on a record he cannot speak of for more than three minutes. Mr. Backović is now five minutes away. I think there are others. Decisions on the justification of the objections to the minutes shall be adopted at a session without discussion. If the observations are adopted in the minutes... the corresponding amendments. I would really ask right now, we obviously now have a discussion here about 28 comments on the record, we have registered for discussion and I really ask the College to act in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure and to put an end to this debate. If the MPs have any objections, let them carry them out for three minutes and let's get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9888	I thank Representative Damir Bećirović.). We will act in accordance with Article 81. We had a correction to the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You didn't get the word. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9890	I understand the Rules of Procedure and fellow Arnaut is right about this. meċutim, I don't think it would be a good idea if in a similar way as we interrupted the vote to end this debate, then there was some new conspiracy theory that I don't think has room for. I want to say that I believe that the College has absolutely nothing to do with what happened at the voting session when we had to vote manually on one point. So I believe that neither Mr. Bosić nor Mr. Šefik Džaferović, colleague Krišto, for more than justifiable reasons, has been absent unfortunately, so these are not the people to whom this sleep should be directed. And I trust them that they have absolutely nothing to do with it. However, on the other hand, we can't help but say that there's absolutely no logic to all that concern and doubt by the MPs who claim in fact that from 90 dots we only had a problem on that agenda point. And I really don't see what's wrong with the vote? We know what this Parliament's relationship to this topic is. We had a resolution on Sutorina which fell by a vast majority of votes, we had a vote here on the charts, which showed the so-called commitment of Parliament that supported largely that ratification, aside from how I voted and colleagues from my club, that's how it is. But, for future similar situations, for my own sake, I really ask the College to take this situation to the cleaners and to at least to the MPs, but why not the public, inform how it just happened at the ratification of the border with Montenegro, not to work the transfer, not to do the vote, at all other points of work. So, as far as you're concerned in college, I trust you, but let's get this over with, let's see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9891	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a violation of poslovnilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9892	Article 75(3) which states that applications for participation in the debate may be submitted by the end of the hearing. You didn't even finish the hearing and you took away my word even though I had been reported earlier. I'm looking for now, the DF Club is looking for a half-hour break. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9893	Now, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I'm giving a 30-minute break at the DF Club's request. I ask all MPs to be responsible and decent and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Code of Conduct. We'll be here in the College acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can look for any club at any point break of 30 minutes and we'll give it to you. But it's behavior against you, not only this House and the dignity of this House, but all those we represent here. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. I call on Damir Bećirović to explain the reasons for asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9895	We agreed to deliver the video to you, so you can make your own insight into how it's going to be and what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9896	We have it, it wasn't a reason then to ask for a break. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 174. The rules of procedure were asked by representatives in writing: Safer Demirović asked questions during the 20th session of the House, one question was asked by BiH Civil Affairs Minister, the other was asked by BiH Defence Minister; Aleksandra Pandurević asked the question during the 20th session of the BiH Border Police Director's House, and the second one came to the beginning of this session was asked to the General Director of Elektroprenos BiH; Nikola Lovrinović asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office one question, and another to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The following answers were submitted to today's session: The issue of Senad Šepić, which was asked in writing, was delivered by the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, and the second question was submitted by the Council of Ministers of BiH; on the issue of Šemsudin Mehmedović, which was asked in writing, was submitted by the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption; on the issue of Maja Gasal-Bećirović, which was asked in oral form at the 17th session of the House, the Council of Ministers of BiH submitted the response to the question of Sadik Ahmetović, which was asked in writing, the answer to the question of Predrag Kožul, asked the Council of Ministers. Who wants to comment on the answers received? 30 Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9898	Thank you. I got answers to questions I've been waiting for three full months. The question addressed to the Board of Appeal, as well as to the Commission on the conflict of interest of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I have received an answer that I do not know how to qualify, as the Commission for a decision on a conflict of interest, appointed by this Parliamentary Assembly, answers that, by checking through official databases, it has been established that those persons are not subject to sanctions for breach of the provisions of the Law on conflict of interest in institutions. It is not clear to me why a commission has been formed to establish a conflict of interest and is called upon by a register of conflicts of interest which has not yet been established, and by reading the Office of Reviewing Appeals, which is, and by members appointed by this Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Conflict of Interest, it is clear even to the layman who is not a lawyer that the infringements of Article 93(3) of the Public Procurement Act, which has been applied since 27.11.2014 to members of the Office for the Review of Appeals incompatible with any other indirect or direct, permanent or occasional duties, with the exception of academic, scientific or publicist activities. What am I saying? One of the members of the Board of Appeals, which I pointed to when I was just considering the report on the work, both the Office for the Review of Appeals and the Independent Board, is clear that one member is both a member of the Independent Committee and a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals. These two activities carried out by the person concerned are legally incompatible. I'm curious how the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest can give such a response, rather than engage in the action and interpretation of the Law by which these persons are appointed? takoċer, the Office’s reply to the complaint states precisely that all persons who are members and members of the Board of Appeal, other than one, are not performing any other functions. The person in question who performs this function has made it clear to all of us that he is in conflict of interest and that he is above the law since this Commission has absolutely not taken into consideration. takoċer I must say that the answer I received from the Office for the Review of Appeals, where they are calling for a regulation that was allegedly adopted, or obtained the consent of the Council of Ministers, has no written record that this Labour Regulation has been adopted by the Council of Ministers. At yesterday's Council of Ministers meeting, a new Labour Regulation was adopted, a new one was adopted without the old one ever having been agreed by the Council of Ministers. This shows that we have all possible commissions, all possible administrative support in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here from the chairman of the Council of Ministers we hear that we will also form a variety of new commissions that will be our own purpose, nothing concrete will be done in this country. I'm also obliged to say that only last night did I get an answer in an envelope from the Missing Persons Institute, and I failed to deal with it, so I'm going to refer to it at one of the next sessions. I haven't received an answer from Mr. Civil Service Minister yet, and I'm asking you as your Kolega to send an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9899	The word is represented by Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9900	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. 31 At one of the previous sessions, I asked a representative question on the protection of the first protected corruption reporter, Ms. Irina Lovrić. The answer was delivered to me by the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of course I'm satisfied with the answer, but I'm not satisfied with the state. Why? You know, and in response, they're actually constantly looking for formal-legal assumptions about how the Agency did everything for itself. However, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding protected corruption applicants is disastrous because it is a message to the public that it is best to remain silent if you have knowledge of possible corruption in the system. Therefore, you know the Director has also sent an inspector who has carried out surveillance and made a record, and it is all in a formal legal sense okay, but we have a situation that the first protected corruption reporter is probably very fast on the street, without a job, that physically, meaning, abused at the workplace where he works, that he is constantly under pressure, is constantly exposed to harassment by a direct manager, which is, of course, directly related to the activity that he has as a declareer of corruption. Therefore, here I will try to also in direct communication with the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency to try to see how to actually protect all future applicants and, of course, this first applicant, Ms. Irina Lovrić. Thank you very much. And, of course, to point out that I didn't get answers to three parliamentary questions I referred to the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9901	The word is represented by Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9902	My colleagues and colleagues and our distinguished guests, who have endured our work model today, I warmly welcome you. The question, I must comment on the question I asked at the 20th session, was the question – how does the Ministry of Communications and Transport intend to implement the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, and, in particular, provisions relating to the timing, broadcasting and reproduction of programmes in the official languages of the constituent peoples in accordance with Articles 8 and 26. The law. The answer that I received on this part of the question is – when it comes to the time-consuming policy of the Public TV Service in BiH, the Law on the Public TV System of BiH contains provisions declaring urinal and institutional independence, and in accordance with the legal rules on the matter in question, public TV services in BiH have full freedom in the clocking of their own programme and is explicitly prohibited from mixing the executive authority in the clocking policy of public broadcasters. It is simply amazing to me that these, in my opinion, crucial legal provisions that are directly passed on from the Constitution to the law are left to the will of watchful policy, and their apparent non-application of justice to the media independence. The second part of the question was – how the same Ministry is thinking to implement the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, in particular provisions relating to the establishment of a corporation, Articles 6, 12, 13, 14 and 42. The law? This is where I get the answer – the establishment and management of corporations depends exclusively on the goodwill of three broadcasters, and precisely because of the different disagreements and conflicts between public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the corporation has not yet been established. If it's not amazing, and at least it's not good, it's only up to anyone to enforce certain laws. That's why my question was and was asked in order to really in this area, this matter would come to a law that would not depend on anyone's goodwill, but will be carried out. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9903	The word is represented by Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9904	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I will briefly comment on this issue, the Council of Ministers' initiative on freedom of faith and conviction and freedom of speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I got the information, she's taxing on what we as a state have been doing so far, but there's nothing concrete about what we're going to do in the next period. Since this is an important topic in general in the world, it is important for us both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the UN is working to establish interparliamentary bodies dealing with these issues, here I am today going to launch, following this initiative, the next initiative. So, the first is for the BiH Parliament to form a group of parliamentarians who will actively deal with this topic, so by ensuring freedom of faith and freedom of conviction. And the second, since, uh, in this initiative, the issue of freedom of the media with a special emphasis on the area of attack on journalists has been contained, I suggest you include one of the points in the next sessions, one of the points of the agenda, which is freedom of speech, the work of the media with a special emphasis on information about attacks on journalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9905	The word has Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9906	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have... since the previous sessions asked the BiH Direct Taxation Authority to provide me with information and a list of non-competition employees in the last 12 months and to be classified by regional exposures. I got a number that's really worrying about 63 employees in a year without any procedures or competitions, and I think that's what we all need to be worried about, because the way, this is a very non-transparent way, and I would also call this Agency ours, as it is called, to coordinate corruption to deal with these issues and ways of hiring institutions in this number. I think it's a lot of work to them than these problems they've served us last session around this, if they have space, if they don't have space, etc., which certainly doesn't diminish the importance of dealing with issues they need to deal with. Unfortunately, I did not get the names of the employees, although this Personal Data Protection Agency said that people working in the state sector who pay Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens have the right to know, therefore, who all the people are concerned about. I can only suspect that names would certainly cause reactions, because I'm sure that in such a way they didn't come to this agency either best, nor did those who were waiting for a job with completed colleges, seven, eight or nine or ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9907	The word has Nikola Lovrinović. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9908	Thank you. I welcome the Madam Chairman of you and your co-chairs, I welcome my colleagues, since I first appear here in Parliament. So I didn't get an answer to three of my questions. I will only remind myself of the questions, so witnesses who give false testimony when it comes to the search for the Bugojan Hrvat. So the question is, uh, the murdered returnees of Hrvat and police officers in Travnik. And I don't know the third question is to the VSTV who I asked for the responsibility of the prosecutor who initiated the procedure or the manner in which the arrest of members of the Kiseljak HVO was carried out. So, all questions were asked at least two months ago, no answer, this is the prosecution about the returnees of the Hrvat to Travnik and the police has six months. Well, I have nothing to comment on, but I will prepare for the next session to answer them, and I suggest they write an answer for me to say, "We are not, like this, an independent institution, and we have nothing to say to you, since it obviously doesn't cost me, and we have a lot of work to do." ...so I suggest next time I send them a proposal to answer that they don't try, since they obviously don't band at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9909	I don't see any more of those here who might comment, we have a reported Damir Bećirović, but I don't see the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9910	... The 83rd position (1) at each item of the agenda may be requested a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9911	These are comments to the answers received and asked questions, these are comments to the answers received and asked questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9912	But this is also the agenda point, attitude (1) of Article 83 half an hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9913	At this point, we've exhausted our comments on the answers received. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, in accordance with Article 27(f), I shall limit the debate to all remaining points of the agenda to 5 minutes. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Deputy Minister of Defence – Proposer: President of the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9914	34 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9915	Please, you didn't get the word. The President of the Council of Ministers shall be the President of the Council of BiH on 20.11.2015, in accordance with Article 15. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers, delivered in the procedure of the decision to replace the BiH Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence. The material you got, the motion decision you have, I'll read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9916	on the replacement of the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Deputy Minister of Defence Article 1. 1. This Decision relieves Slavko Matanović of his duties as Minister of Communications and Transport at the BiH Council of Ministers. 2. Emir Suljagić, deputy defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The decision takes effect on the date of confirmation by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9917	Dr Denis Zvizdić I am opening a debate under point three, Zaim Backović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9918	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in all three versions of Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian, I ask that the secretary explain, because I did not understand, let's just say the companion, I really didn't understand it. And that I do, I need to know what it is to be able to track. Mr. Bosić, I don't know what a neighbor is, and I'm asking you to explain it to me, because we don't have it in the Rules of Procedure, we don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9919	Please, you have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have not referred to which provision of the Rules of Procedure, which has been violated by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9920	I know that there are deputies and presidencies, and I know it, and here I can call any member, I've asked to explain to me what is the companion here in this House. I want to know who the co-chairs are and what they're about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9921	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Bećirović. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9922	So you violated Article 83 (1) – giving a break at each item of the agenda. This was the agenda point and this is, now I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9923	Here, right now, I'm taking a break at the DF Club's request, right, 30 minutes. We're moving on with the session. I urge representative Damir Bećirović to explain the reasons for the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9925	The reason was because you disrespected this House and us as MPs chosen and because you skipped the last point to take a break. But still, because we respect this House and this country, we decided to attend the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9926	It is an insult on your part and against the College and against all MPs and in some way the reputation of this House of Representatives, so I warn you. We're going over, we're going to have a debate at number three. Damir Bećirović reported on the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9927	I wouldn't, I'd like to first see the Proposer of this Decision, if he could explain to us why the appointment of the Minister and Deputy Minister is taking place, so first I'd like to get the word from the Proposer of the Decision, after he talks to us and the Minister who is changing, so let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9928	At this point, we have a designated minister who wants to address this House. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9929	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Although this is evident, I will say that this shift has been launched because of the end of the ruling coalition, not on the basis of the governing performance or the working influence of the minister. The inherited state in the Ministry of Communications and Transport, which fully reflects Bosnia and Herzegovina's ineffectiveness, did not prevent us from trying to improve our work as much as possible within the limits set. Political parties point out that the chairs are not 36 important, but when they seek to reach the authorities then put the results that their political rivals have achieved on the other hand. But for objective information to the public, I present in short lines what has been done significantly by the Ministry of Communications and Transport over the past 8 months. Framework transport policy was adopted after 8 years of waiting, which opened the door to foreign investment and grants this year. The Brussels conference defined the basic transport network on the basis of which grenades of 28m euros were received at the summit in Vienna and provided funds to finance the construction of bridges on the Sava near Gradiška and Svilaj. After 6 years of the adoption of the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services, the administration of this Agency has been elected and assumptions have been created for the implementation of the second phase of the ATM strategy and the takeover of control over the entire airspace of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After a long delay and a breakover of the deadline for switching from analogue to digital broadcasting, we found a way out of the seemingly insecure situation and launched the digitalisation process. As a crown of the ministry's efforts, the adoption of the Framework Transport Policy in the European Commission's Annual Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the integration process came. The ministry also carried out activities that will soon result in the process of important laws and sublegal acts, as well as quality information and initiatives related to the area of communication and transport. Finally, I would like to thank you for the successful co-operation of the Transport and Connection Commission, all MPs at the House of Representatives, as well as the chairman and my colleagues from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9930	I thank the Minister for this address. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9931	Article 161(1) of the Proposer shall have the right and duty to explain at the House session a proposal to vote for non-confidential or reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. You didn't provide any of the promoters here in the O.R. and give an explanation to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9932	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9933	Mr. Bećirović quoted the wrong member and I urge him to refer to Article 165. A Rules of Procedure which is relevant to these needs, where only it stands to have the right but not the obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9934	Thank you. Žeko Komšić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 37 g
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9935	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Article 164 The Rules of Procedure – the appointment of the Minister or Deputy Minister must be included in the agenda of the House's meeting at the latest, I stress no later than 15 days from the date of the adoption of the proposal by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. As far as I know, you got it on 19.11. 15 days ago and how you explain now that we're even discussing this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9936	Thank you very much. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9937	Mr. Komšić has been targeted again... interpreting the Rules of Procedure. This item is included in the agenda within 15 days, and having a session held after 15 days is a completely different issue and the Rules of Procedure do not speak at all. Mr. Komšić, I invite you and Mr. Bećirović to read this Rules of Procedure a little bit more closely. I know you've had your first day of office at a session today, but trust me when I tell you it's like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9938	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9939	I will remind you that this point as a part of the agenda has been downloaded at the request of the College in accordance with Article 161. What you are now turning around, what you are looking for is a member that fits, but simply the College has taken off the last session this point by calling for Article 161, not the presence of a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9940	Thank you very much. željko Komšić, correction of the wrong quote. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9941	Mr. Arnaut, although I have a lot of reasons, I won't engage in the time of you and your personality, and, uh, I'm just asking you to quote me a member of the Rules of Procedure from which you pulled such an interpretation. So, it doesn't say anywhere, that you're so interpreting and you think you're the supreme legal authority of this House, let me disagree. Get me the standard from which you've drawn such an interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9942	Thank you. 38 At this point I don't see, Damir Arnaut correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9943	Ma, I once read to Mr Komšić, here I will now slow down a little, uh, a proposal for the replacement of ministers or deputy ministers must be included in the agenda of the House session no later than 15 days from the day the proposal is received by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. It is included in the agenda of the House session within 15 days. If you want, I can do it one more time, but here's your Rules of Procedure, I see article 164, uh, it's clearly explained. And as for legal authority, it's the Kolega who decides on the justification of your objection and I don't think you're going to get a satisfactory answer, so I think that's going to give you an answer on legal authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9944	Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9945	I'm going to make a few more calls, since you're constantly referring to the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to refer to the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to the Council of Ministers Act. We had a download in accordance with Article 161 here because the promoter was not and it was by Mr. Džaferović, you asked from last session. And in Article 32. The Council of Ministers' Law says that, in the event of his absence or other form of prevention, the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers is replacing the youngest of the chairman-in-Office of the Council. You didn't provide either, or the other, or the third here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9946	željko Komšić, correction of the wrong quote. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9947	Listen, I haven't been in politics since yesterday that I don't know that anything can by force, uh, after all DF is out of power because of force and disrespect of norms, because that's not how it can be done, that's not how the state is made. If you're a wise and smart lawyer, you go around the norm and you don't go straight to it. But if the norm is precise, such as the 164th member of the Rules of Procedure, very precise, and let me be able to count, it's been far more than 15 days since 19 November to the day of today. You can do whatever you want because you have your hands, I respect that, but I just want it to be known that you haven't secured the passage of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9948	Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9949	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ma, I want to replicate, i.e. by correcting my colleague-in-law, Damir, because this is not about the inability of the chairman of the Council of Ministers to perform his duty, but simply about this in accordance with this article's position (1), as read by colleague 39 Arnaut, that he has the right but not the obligation, as stated by colleagues who wanted to point out in the absence of the Council of Ministers. So that's the correction of the quote in that sense. This point can therefore be debated, regardless of the Council of Ministers' chairmanship being present here, in accordance with Article 164(1). Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9950	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil rectification of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9951	Well, I would like to remind my esteemed colleagues of the SBB Club who were so wonderful when they quoted the laws in the opposition position, insisted that the chairman, i.e. the proposings be present at the meetings when they were to be held and when they should be. Today, none of the laws of the prescribed presidents, or his deputy, are present at this session. Whether he's senior Rules of Procedure or he's senior law, that's the question that the SBB is, that's why he came into the federal-level coalition that the regulation should be above the law, not the law above the regulation, so I remind you that since Damir, colleague Damir Arnaut likes to investigate and read, to open up fine Google and see Article 32. The Council of Ministers Act, where it stands exactly when Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is more in the air than on land, when he is prevented, is absent from being replaced by the youngest deputy, and this is Mr. Mirko Šarović, because he was born on 16 September 1956, and Vjekoslav Bevanda on May 13, 1956, so there is no chairman, no younger, no older deputy, so we cannot consider this point today. It's a violation of the law, you have your hands you'll do as you've done on a federal level, and here's the public to be familiar with the future work of this coalition.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9952	Momčilo Novaković spoke for the debate. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Just look at the Rules of Procedure and see the number on the front. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9954	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. Well, I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers stated in his explanation the essential reason for the shift. Probably in some more developed societies, this wouldn't be enough reason. Of course, with us it is not enough reason, but this Mr. Matanović will find himself in a position to vote on his shift both the position and the opposition. So, uh, it'll be more than enough reason for the minister's shift. But that's not why I answered, I will support it, meaning Mr. Matanović's shift just because it's not a question that concerns us in Republika Srpska, but a question of coalitions within the Federation of BiH. And we don't think that we should give up those coalitions that will be held at the Federation level of BiH, or that we should define those parties that will take part in the Federation's government at this level. And in the end, I have to thank Mr Matanović, as chairman of the Transport and Connection Commission, we had really great co-operation, and I'm going to tell Bog that we have such 40 co-operations and with the future minister, I don't know who that will be. We resolved several very serious issues in the previous period, there was not a single session of the Commission that the minister was not at, and it is a pity that simply some of the jobs that we started to do, especially in the digitisation business, we did not finish and that these jobs were waiting for us in the next period. So, once again, I want to thank the Minister for his cooperation as chair of this Commission, and I hope that we will have such co-operation and with, I don't know who will come, the future minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9955	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9956	Thank you. 15 days is not a respected deadline. Journal of the 19th session of the Klegija House of Representatives in the extended composition, Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Deputy Minister of Defence of BiH – The College decided not to include this item in the agenda of the 20th session of the House of Representatives for the inability to attend the meeting of the House, and to be included in the agenda of the 21st session of the House of Representatives. At the time you didn't want to put it, and this was, so on 23.11., our House of Representatives session was 24.11. you went over it because the chairman was in China, so now we can, when you're in a hurry to see whether or not you're having a good time, you're in a hurry, regardless of whether there's no Council of Ministers chairman, or the youngest deputy, who by law, Article 32, can change it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9957	Žeko Komšić, debate. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9958	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Democratic Front, I now speak for the party, I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, his associates, or ministers and colleagues for the co-operation they had with the people who were in front of the DF at the Council of Ministers. I think it was a correct co-operation, that it worked as professionally as possible. And at least from what I know from the public views, from private talks, I think that Mr. Matanović and Mr. Suljagić were respected associates within the Council of Ministers. We respect the fact that the new parliamentary majority, it's not controversial, it's quite democratic, in all countries it's done so, I'm just pointing out the need, there's simply no reason to break norms. Because if we break norms, what messages we send to the citizens of this country. So all of this could have been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, and the office, we respect that. I also understand the explanation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, in the proposal for this decision, we know that this is how it works. It may have seemed funny and strange to someone, but okay, it's political life, it's a democracy. So, please, you'll do this today, okay, with luck either. You won't have anyone in us who's going to be unwarranted, but that we'll always point to the need to obey the law, that's what we want. Because without it, people, there's no state. The state does not rest at the will of political elites, the state rests in respect of the Constitution and the law. That's how every modern state works, and I guess we fight to be. What political means, 41 we'll just see. I have my own position, my Bog, we'll see, it's not very bright and it's not optimistic of me or my opinion of what's next, but I hope I'm wrong about it, it'll be far better than it looks now. Anyway, I hope neither Mr Matanović nor Mr Suljagić have disappointed their associates, and in particular they have not disappointed the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a satisfaction to us, too, if you want both political and human. I don't want to replicate to anyone through this debate, but I will look back on what Mr. Novaković said. Mr. Novaković, we've been very involved in who from your entity will be here. What I can promise you on behalf of the DF now count on us not to do it anymore. In a month, two, three, you can count freely that we won't do it anymore. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9959	Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9960	...respected chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues. I had no intention of discussing it, but I was offered these reasons which were written for the replacement of a respected minister who is certainly in this post-day Bosnia and Herzegovina one of the better ministers in the Council of Ministers in this area, and of course he needs to be recognized for it. Unfortunately, here's the situation for us to have reasons... we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm going to be a little subjective, so I'm going to go back, so for those who have forgotten, and they belonged to SDP policy and the trend of reconstruction in this way in this country was established by Zlatko Lagumdžija. And the reasons for the minister's shift were largely established in the way the respected professor Lagumdžija patented it. It happened four, five, six years ago here in this House, when the ministers were removed, here is my smallness and defence minister, Mr Muhamed Ibrahimović. And this way, therefore, I hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina will experience its democratic capacity, that the reasons and reasons for the shift, changes in the governments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be justified in a way that they did not work well and that they have made big, or smaller, or greater mistakes in their work. Of course, it is a process that is ahead of us and I hope and I am sure that by bringing the EU and democratic countries in the world closer, we will experience such a single capacity of state and those who decide to make decisions in this way. So, we're not going to have these legal pinnacles of ours, our laws and our rules of procedure, mostly by compromises, so that you have one interpretation in one article, in the other, excludes each other, etc., so that's what we have in front of us and on the table, and we don't need to circle around who's right. I think that what Mr Komšić said today, so they have enough hands for it, is the new parliamentary majority and to figure out what I will vote for, given that the naked ones are, I will vote for the shift because there has been a change in the new parliamentary majority, for a reason to stop reconstructing the Council of Ministers and Governments, to start reconstructing these old buildings, roads and all that is bad in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if Bog is to make that kind of progress. I'm sure of it, I believe that, here's also some new structure will have that capacity to pull Bosnia and Herzegovina forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9961	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9962	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. One of the great delusions of the good part of politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only from one party, but from almost possibly all the stops, is that they think that the world started from them, that nothing was before them. And referring to that delusion, some play a short memory card. But there are those of us who remember a little longer. I think it is our duty to speak the truth, to speak the facts and that we can stand here in Parliament behind the truth and the fact. And when we say that some shift trend started with that and that person, then we have to stand behind it. And, dear colleague Ahmetović, that trend didn't start now and I didn't start you, and neither did I when you said it. And I, when I say it, have arguments and facts, unlike you. The trend began, counterpart Ahmetović, before that. The moment the SDA was in office before the mandate, the security minister, Mr Sadović, replaced it. There are people here who have witnessed it. So, the trend didn't start when you said it. But it's neither the place nor the time to go back to the past. There may be another mandate where we might find similar examples. The point is, let's see what this is all about. Under number one, has this minister been removed in accordance with the principles of constitutionality and legality? We see there's no legal principle, we know what the law says. The minister is being replaced in one government, the Council of Ministers. You have no Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister. Excuse me, in which country would that be allowed? I'm not going any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9963	Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9964	It's not a correction, it's a replica. Here, this is a little bit different written on these monitors, so maybe I'm wrong. I could have imagined everything, but that Denis was defending Lagumdzija really in these last six, seven months or years. But I don't think you understand me, Mr. Bećirović, I don't think you listened well to what I said. I said shift arguments. So you can look in the archives, so you sign for Sadović's shift, so there was an explanation. At the time, he chaired the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. And if you want me to keep telling you, that's when the SDA voted for the shift. Could this happen to SDP and that patent that set up Zlatko Lagumdžija, it's a big question mark. So, I hope that you've studied well, so your former boss's methods of work and that you know perfectly how he works and how he functioned when he had the highest capacity in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9965	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9966	...we're already here at the end, the thing is clear. So, counterpart Ahmetović volunteered for the replica, and I volunteered to correct a very precise incorrect allegation. Kolega Ahmetović could not correct any allegations, but had one of his monologues, where I address my respected colleague Ahmetović 43 as my colleagues Ahmetović, not Sadik, as he told Denise, etc. This is not the market, this is the BiH Parliament, we wouldn't mind a bit more likely respect from that side. As far as certain names are concerned, I have no problem defending anyone, I have no problem defending neither Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, it is the former SDP president, the current board member, so part of my political party. But I wasn't talking about names, I was talking about your trend that you said when it started, and I was justifiably telling you that it didn't start then. And the bottom line is that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9967	Debate, Damir Arnaut. Here you go. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. She was, I'm sorry, and then she was removed again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9968	I took advantage of my colleague Bećirović, so I checked out, so I checked in again. A colleague, Sadik Ahmetović, is being reconstructed. It's okay, and it's not unusual. It's a little unusual when it's done without a blinker, but when it comes to him and it's not unusual. This whole discussion where people who aren't there are mentioned as his conscience-washing, and maybe that's human. But, counterpart Ahmetović, the shifts didn't start when you were replaced and maybe you just noticed it was happening. It's been a while, but maybe you haven't noticed. The only thing that counterpart Bećirović mentioned today is that this whole procedure should be done in accordance with the law, and that was not difficult to implement, because the only thing that was needed here was to be one of the three chairmans, his two deputies, as the law says. And it is not disputed that there is a parliamentary majority that exists in this House and it is not disputed that there will be a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. It's all normal stuff, but there's no need for it to happen so that anyone has the impression that it's a forceful thing. He's not on the force, he's got most of them, he's got most of them, he's got enough. It's enough most of it, just a little bit of feeling, but obviously it's not for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9969	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9970	I don't know, I'm going to give up because Mr. Magazinović, despite all these incursions that his esteemed colleague had, is there any more epithet, Mr. Denis Bećirović, so he's completely dictating and talking about blinkers, cars, etc., and probably thinking about me. So my political place is in the SDA and I don't see any reason for you to do it and in such a way, and it's very broad, very democratic and that's what you need to follow in the future as a party and then you'll be able to appreciate the democratic values of a political party, that sometimes you have the right to think differently about how the president thinks, vice presidents, etc. You might be talking about the matrix again, but I'm not gonna mention your ex-boss anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9971	Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9972	Col. Ahmetović no longer has a replica, is that right? Well, since there's no more replicas, I'll just say one sentence. I was under the impression that he was being reconstructed, and after this, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9973	Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9974	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Ahemtović was not removed only by the will of the new majority. We were in the session where Mr Sadik Ahmetović was replaced and told what the reasons were. It was a minister who was not involved in his affairs, and among other things was one of those who said that this country was run by criminals, and that he did nothing under Bogo's care to prove it, solve it, or in any way show this country and this Parliament or anyone else that he was right. So, as Minister of Security, Mr Sadik, or Ahmetović, you were not only removed because of the will of the majority, but because of our perception that you were not doing your job quality, and that's not what Zlatko told us, we figured it out ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9975	Representative Damir Arnaut, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9976	Thank you. I don't think there really might have been a need, if there was a good will. meċutim, it was not by those who explicitly said that things were done here illegally and beyond the Rules of Procedure. And indeed, there is a need to explain, among other things, because of the fact that the SBB has been calling upon this right from the beginning of this call very clearly insisting on respect and strict compliance with all legal and business provisions, and we are doing so today. As far as the Council of Ministers' Law is concerned, Article 32 says that in the absence of the Council of Ministers, it is replaced by its youngest deputy, the younger deputy. I'm aware of that, I read the laws, and I knew it before my dear colleague, Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil pointed to that. Truth is, I didn't know which one of them was younger, I don't read facebook profiles, I read laws. meċutim, there is absolutely no legal or business obligation for the Council of Ministers to attend a session discussing its initiative to replace one or more ministers or deputy ministers. What exists is a business obligation for the Council of Ministers to be presented at each session, including at this meeting, through ministers or deputies. And we see them here more than enough. Therefore, all legal and business provisions are absolutely respected. So, it can't be, because I know what's going on here, the DF has been announcing this for days, but for weeks, the DF has announced that this will be done by law and by the Rules of Procedure. It is extremely important, necessary even, to send a clear message to the public that everything here is at this session around this point in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure and that absolutely not your qualifications that have been standing since this morning, you said this morning that the College is doing criminal acts, now you say, you are referring to Article 32. The Council of Ministers Act, and you absolutely don't understand what you're talking about. When it comes to political responsibility, I agree that it would be desirable for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to be there when discussing an important topic. And it was clear that the Council of Ministers' 45 intention was to be present around this point. At the very beginning of this session, this morning, the Honorable Chairman announced that the chairman of the Council of Ministers should travel to Brussels at 1:00. And I dare say that the DF has targeted four breaks to try to challenge the political responsibility of the chairman of the Council of Ministers on this issue. But you can't do that. Do you know that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has addressed the House of Peoples, where this shift has already been confirmed. Therefore, he showed more than good will to do so. But watch out for something, distinguished colleagues from this party who have been troubled by this, Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have time to wait for your breaks, there's no time to wait for your ministers' resignations in the federal government because they're not being given their toys they've been looking for. Here's the federal government working perfectly well with the regulation, without a regulation, it doesn't matter who controls the power sector for those who want to fix that power sector, whether it's the minister or the entire government. It's even better when the whole government is. We can't wait for a drop of people to resign to the seats of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Bosnia and Herzegovina just can't wait for that. But if the law is broken, or the Rules of Procedure, they'd be the first to insist on waiting, if it wasn't broken. meċutim, for the sake of the public, it is absolutely necessary here to leave a message that nothing has been done past the Rules of Procedure and the Law. On the contrary, all the business and legal provisions are fully respected despite the four breaks you requested. I dare say, this is the precedent you've done in this conference, and probably a lot of previous convocations haven't seen four breaks at just two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9977	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9978	If someone's following you in front of the little screens right now, there's absolutely nothing clear about it, Mr. Arnaut, what you just said. First, you said that the legal norm, or Article 32, quoted it, or you read everything in it, and then you said that all legal norms were respected, that the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure were respected. You're yourself contradictory. So, legal norms, for the sake of the public, are not respected because we do not see here either the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the youngest deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. That's one thing. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure should comply with the law, not the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're mixing that up. Thirdly, I am very glad that you are now part of any, or at all levels, which is part of this coalition, because you are mentally better understood with your coalition partners than the DF will ever be able to. We had a good will to get the MAP, which we won't get, it's known why, although they're orbiting some media and portals that the MAP is just about not knocking on our door, we won't get it, precisely because of the appointments that took place here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that's one thing. We're getting further from the European path, that's another way, and that needs to be explained to the public. Thirdly, any caprica, any waiting, Bosnia and Herzegovina is lagging behind because of the DF, or the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, or from any representative or representative at any level, you can speak on the SBB General Board and deceive your members, members, sympathisers. Do not underestimate the citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they are human beings who think for themselves. Therefore, we wish you good luck, although we are glad that you are part of this coalition, which will no longer be a tension between you and Mr. Šefik Džaferović and there will probably not be so many 46 parliamentary interventions, because they will respect the Rules of Procedure, so you will intervene less on the violation of these parliamentary initiatives. We wish you good luck, but for the sake of the public you need to make it clear that what we've been repeating for the thirtyth time, you have not respected the law, the legal norms, and we will see how you will behave in the future. You're putting it into practice. Therefore, all other activities, all of our representation issues..., here is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, constantly on every parliamentary issue, using the opportunity to indicate that those who rebel against the system, or those who point to system irregularities, which are whistles in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are being silenced precisely because of non-compliance with laws and legal norms, the most legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this House, the esteemed House, is absolutely in violation of that, and that is a fact. And the chairman of the Council of Ministers is correct that he addressed the House of Nations for 45 seconds because he was probably late for the plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9979	Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9980	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I have to say, I'm pretty sorry that this debate is going in a tone like this, but I just have to react, because these allegations that we just heard from my colleague, Galsal, don't just stand there. Admission to the same level as the 32nd member of the Council of Ministers and members of 164 is simply incompatible. Article 32 speaks of the duties of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and Article 164 speaks of the right to submit an application and not of obligation to be present at the Parliament's meeting when the proposal is discussed. And Article 32 speaks of a duty, if it is not a standing up to perform a duty, it is replaced by, who replaces it, just as it is stated here. And I'm glad to hear what my colleague Gasal said, because of all the problems so far, there are problems for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I'm sure will not be present from now on, but that this Bosnia and Herzegovina and this people need to open up hope, that there is a perspective in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that there is a perspective for the people living in it and that we will prevent young people from finally leaving, because this exodus has to stop, these 70,000 that left Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's a process that simply has to stop. This process will not stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9981	Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. _________(?) Correction of the wrong quote. Just look at your number in front of correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9983	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll light the blinker, as my colleague Sadik Ahmetović said. Namely, while we are here having a debate on who should be a minister, who should not, until then we have a blow to the BiH Constitution by an entity. It's just that we're on our way to the EU, and then there's a preamble, whether in the parliamentary majority, whether in power, etc., as if someone's sitting and waiting, and 47 is thinking about when they're going to push the wheels into our wheels. It's not good for this country, it's not good for this people and that's why I don't see the purpose of the debate at all. Obviously, there is some parliamentary majority who will vote whatever it is he's up to. Is that according to the Rules of Procedure, according to the Council of Ministers or not, it is quite irrelevant, as the fellow wishes. But I answered for another reason. I am in the Commission for Transport and Communications, here is the tenth year, and I want here clearly and responsibly and responsibly to say that Minister Matanović was one of the most responsible ministers in this area. And that's gotta be his confession. And don't let anyone say he's been removed because he didn't do his job. It is explained that a new parliamentary majority is forming, etc. I'm afraid this new parliamentary majority is not leading this Bosnia and Herzegovina in the wrong direction. Whether I'm right or not, time will show, but I'm afraid we'll get into a situation when no one else can form a parliamentary majority with anyone else, an existing one and it won't work. That's the danger some have already talked about. So I'm afraid that some who mention mega cantons should be responsible for public responsibility, with citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to explain what that really means, what mega cantons are. Is it the concentration of already existing cantons, whether it's a division, the new division of the country, is it, I don't want to be a skeptic, but I'm afraid there's a Bošnjak in this Bosnia and Herzegovina that there's going to be two cantons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think there might be no place for one people. It's a danger that's easy to see, and you can see that it's all fine-tuning cubes and it's going in the desired direction. That's why I called to say that this is all irrelevant to the big things that are happening to us, and I'm afraid that our country is not going in the right direction, but we'll see, from there to there.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9984	Salko Sokolović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9985	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to say hello to everyone in the O.R. once again, because for the last ten or fifteen days, I may have been a little close to the media, they've called me, asked me to take a stand. I said what I said, that I wouldn't support the shift, and it seems to me on a few occasions, and I explained it. Since we're doing a government reconstruction today, which in my opinion, or the Council of Ministers, which, in my opinion, worked well, might have been some grade 3 or 4, whether it didn't work great. And here we have participated in this debate so far, I want to say, in a way, a few words that, per manta, can produce good or bad on Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, too, because they are our goal, because they voted us to sit here and defend the state, defend economic interest, social interest and all other interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd say Bog gave it to us and he won't give it to us. We have one Council of Ministers that works. Here, I have put here a few important, in my opinion, qualifications – a strong Council of Ministers, qualified, stable, functional at this time, and I think any reconstruction of such a Council of Ministers, no matter what reason we have, that can stop it, this is what Mr Mehmedović was talking about, and the reform path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, meeting the obligations of the Action Plan. And here we saw in a short performance and a minister, and here we know what has been done so far, run or will be launched when it comes to the Ministry of Communications and Traffic. I'm afraid, I'd like to be wrong, and I'm asking myself whether this reconstructed Council of Ministers will continue to work better, stagnate or get 48 more bad results. That's what I'm saying for the simple reason that I've been sitting here for many years in this House and I'm witnessing various reconstructions. None of this reconstruction did well, nor was it good when Sadik was removed as interior minister, security, nor was it good that what was then appointed Mr Radončić, nor did something good bring his shift afterwards, etc. Simply here, we had a stalemate between Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. I'm afraid something like this might happen to us right now. It's an experience, I've seen it, I've participated in it, and I don't have any other positive example that any reconstruction has brought something good. There's another fear here, which I also pointed out in the media space as a problem. I am afraid that here is not the essential thing of Minister Matanović, who is a Hrvat, who comes from the DF and is not under HDZ control. Why am I saying that? So I'm saying this for the simple reason why Council of Ministers decisions are made in such a way that we have a Croatian hand that may be blocking some ideas of Dragan Čović, who these days cheers and dresses in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think it's a good thing that we're going to destabilise the Council of Ministers in such a way, if we need a decision tomorrow, and it won't be made because representatives of the Croatian people, or representatives of the HDZ, are not voting for it or some blackmail will be created. There's a very difficult time coming, there's an election law coming, and this is what Šemsudin was talking about. I am convinced that this Council of Ministers that is being reconstructed today is a far more quality and stable factor for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina than the Council of Ministers that will then be formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9986	Denis Bećirović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9987	The Honorable Chairman. So there are several elements that should be said about this topic. Under one – reasons, under two – legality, under 3. - weather timing, 4. – Comparation with European experiences and 5. - to see what the future brings us. This fifth might be the most important thing. Reasons, first of all, about reasons. From what has been delivered by the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, but also what has been said today by all MPs and positions and opposition, we can unequivocally, unequivocally all agree that there are no reasons for the replacement of ministers, as well as Deputy Minister Suljagić. So there's no reason, no one said people weren't doing well. Second, legality – there is no dilemma. If everyone reads the BiH Council of Ministers' Law that what is done today is not in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law. Is it in line with the Rules of Procedure, we could discuss it differently, interpret certain business provisions, but I would remind us that at the beginning of this term we all did one good and important thing together. And I remind you, a year ago, we took a break here, Parliament, and brought a member of the BiH presidency when he was obliged to attend the session. A member of the BiH presidency who is not elected by this Parliament. With the Council of Ministers, with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it is a completely different matter, because we chose him, this House, which can thus resolve him. The third thing is timing. I don't want much, I think my colleague Mehmedović talked about it before. I don't think it's in favor of a decision like this at all. 4th – compression with European experiences. Can anyone find any example, not only of the EU countries, but also of the region, of replacing a minister, a deputy minister, etc., that you do not have a prime minister at that time to respond to Parliament, that you do not even have any deputy at that time. That example certainly cannot be cited. And the fifth thing, what this brings us in the future. What brings us to the future, I was fragrant yesterday when I heard in Brussels that a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Bakir Izetbegović, said that in early 2016 he would resolve or resolve the Croatian issue. First, where did this 49 structure come from? Who took that construction? For me, there is a Bosnian-Herzegovagic question and within it is equal to all other questions, if we will call them a question. And I don't know how we can solve any issue of any constituent people in this country in 2016, and we have an unrealised European Court of Human Rights ruling on others who are totally discriminated against in this country, and of course I do not deny that half of the peoples of Bošnjak and Hrvat are discriminated against in Republika Srpska according to constitutional solutions, as well as Srbin in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9988	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9989	So I'm saying that this appointment, that these shifts and everything that is announced to be done, doesn't seem to be going in the right direction. These statements don't go in the right direction. The last time someone formulated that there was a Croatian issue, it was settled in '39. By agreement Cvetković-Macek, the whole of Central Bosnia and Herzegovina and above Posavina is connected to Banovina Croatia. I warn some not to play with such structures.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9990	Saša Magazinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9991	I thank the chairman. Unlike those who have been proposed against the shift by the Council of Ministers, who defends the position that the Council of Ministers has worked well and worked well in this composition, I would like to say that I do not agree with such a position and that I believe that the Council of Ministers in this composition, at least dominantly in the area I am monitoring, and in terms of European integration, has not worked well. I think the situation is much worse than what it's trying to create through the media. The average informed citizen believes that Europe is right around the corner, that we are close, only it is not. I think it is about creating optimism without any cover, because this Council of Ministers has taken too seriously the optimistic announcements of part of the international community, which create optimism, not because one of the officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions find himself in these commendable thesis, but actually trying to create an atmosphere to move forward. However, the leaders of the government seemed to think that these praises were related to them and that they had really made a step. And we, or the Council of Ministers, have actually done nothing but sign the agenda. As someone who participated in different negotiations in the past term, among other things and concerning constitutional changes, I witnessed that much had been signed and that almost none of what had been signed had been realized. And if we're going to base all optimism on the signed agenda, then I think we're on the wrong track, and something like that doesn't help the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina or those who are currently acting the most prominent functions in governments at all levels, who are under the impression that they're doing a good job. The coordination mechanism that is part of the Council of Ministers' obligation, whose reconstruction we are talking about today, is at a stalemate and may be best depicted by a statement by one of the members of the Bureau on megacantons. So that's where the coordination mechanism for which we MPs are not able to be informed in an adequate way. Non-transparency is a feature of the Council of Ministers' work, and the ultimate goal of the coordination mechanism is the institutional force of one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. And I think that's the wrong direction. The Council of Ministers, whose reconstruction we are talking about today, thus fulfilling the second condition, i.e. running, for candidate status, which is 50 adjustments to the SAA in terms of traditional trade. And there, for a time, Minister Šarović worked extremely well and resisted the pressures, but still, according to information that we are getting that is not official because Parliament here cannot get any information, it seems that the Council of Ministers will also bow down without representing the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's something the predecessors said about Map, so there's nothing to it. While we are talking today about the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, while the same Council of Ministers is trying to create a public picture to take large steps towards the EU, there is a very serious situation where the RS government is making a decision to no longer co-operate with the SIPA and the State Prosecutor's Office, statements by officials from both sides, who are indeed dramatic, since the possible conflict of police agencies, through a coup, through the failure of the state, whose Parliament we are. And all that while we're talking about the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. What is the responsibility in all this that I've been saying to Mr Matanović and Suljagić? Small or almost nothing. But it can't be an argument against the shift that the Council of Ministers is doing fantastic work and that roses bloom here,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9992	Time. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9993	that everything is beautiful and wonderful, although this shift, as I said earlier, is implemented without respecting the law. And just one sentence, the chairman, forgive me for overstepping my time. Remember, this is not the last reconstruction, the next one will come very soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9994	Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9995	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the allegations of distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović when he said it was a matter of resolving the Croatian national issue. On the contrary, it is a matter of resolving the Bosniak national issue. I'm not saying this by heart, but I'm saying, of course, you presented a statement by one of the high-ranking officials, but believe me, it's about getting the Bošnjak through, under the cover of building megacanton, changing the Federation Constitution, etc. But you know, wise leadership here are some political parties that came out with a political orientation to make, is, as wide a coalition as possible, they call it the European coalition, and you know we need to support it. But of course, it is an indicative statement by one of the leaders that there is no one left to say that they are accused of betraying Bosniak, or Bosnian interests. Yes, here I am telling them that there will always be those who will point fingers at those who will eventually perform and work on further ghettoisation of the Bosniak people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9996	Diana Zelenika, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9997	Thank you. Since I'm reporting for the first time, I welcome everyone present. 51 Since most of the representatives of clubs or individuals have said that they will vote on this item of the agenda, I will, I will say on my behalf that I will not support the shift of ministers and deputy ministers. There are many views here on the points of the Rules of Procedure, etc., whose interpretation is different, depending on whether you are entering power or reshuffled, so I would not hold back on it. What I would say is that normally, when a choice is being made in this House, either in the Council of Ministers, or in any institution, that people in this House are not at all driven by the ability of individuals, but only by political and parliamentary majority, whether you have hands or not. I spoke of it in the first term of the Council of Ministers, when I suggested and talked about the incompetence of certain ministers who have no reference, no link to the ministry they have taken over, so these ministers today are not on the agenda to replace them, and at the same time as today's headlines say that the Council of Ministers' fleet spent, or increased by 700,000 KM, and of which 450,000 KM goes to the Ministry of Justice. I wish on behalf of every six families who are hungry, who today has nothing to say to their child, today anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers, when we don't already have a chairman, explain, perhaps these 700,000 KM or that the minister of justice tells us where he spent his 450,000 and maybe a link.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9998	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u9999	I absolutely respect the agenda, because it's the Council of Ministers' agenda and I'm talking about reasons. As counterpart Bećirović analyzed with several aspects, I will say the reason in my opinion. The only reason is clientelism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10000	Deputy Chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10001	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I went out for this pay phone to say that the change in the parliamentary majority at the state level is part of a whole process called the establishment of a stable parliamentary majority at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is linked to one another. I would remind you that this came from the Federation of BiH Parliament, in several cantons, and now logically ends at the state level. I therefore believe that Mr Matanović was doing his job correctly, but the parliamentary majority is the parliamentary majority. It is able to connect me at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I believe that today's reconstruction will have a stable parliamentary majority at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this state will be able to fulfil the obligations it needs to exercise power in its mandate. I call on the House of Representatives to support the Council of Ministers' decision, which waited patiently for us today until 13 p.m. when he had to leave, and announced before he would have to travel. But here's why he didn't get a chance to speak here at the House. And to all those who pulled the words of President Izetbegović out of context and used today at this session, and that is the second and perhaps the first reason why I came out here. I mean, they don't do it, they don't get words out of context and then they interpret how someone wants to interpret them. Know, therefore, that the position of SDA and President Izetbegović is that there is no reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina 52 that will lead us to further territorial or ethnic divisions. Any reform in the future, constitutional reform, can only lead to Bosnia and Herzegovina's reintegration and ensuring the equality of all peoples and citizens across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10002	Debate, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10003	Madam Chairman. I'd just like to talk about some paradoxes that are present about the functioning of this Predative House. In fact, today we replace the officials we hear plebiscitarianly that they did a great job, especially Mr Matanović, which I agree with. And we are replacing these people because of the will of the political, new political majority in this House, which, of course, is not controversial and there are no problems. What concerns me as a member of this House is the fact that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not used when he is given the opportunity to reshuffle the Council of Ministers in a way that respects the country's law. We are all witnessing that Madam Secretary of Defense Pendeš has lost her security certificate, if that's what it's called, which makes it impossible for the Madam Secretary to access classified information. And it's very interesting how the lady will do her job in such a current situation. So we replace people who have done great work, and people who have a problem with the law, here we leave to continue to make our approach to NATO impossible and possibly European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10004	Senad Šepić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10005	...the chairman. Well, I didn't want to pick up at first, but here's how these discussions go. I think there's a need to say a few things, one of my own, as they say, feelings. I was particularly encouraged by what my colleague Bećirović said when he said – and what the next steps are, so what is it we can expect in the future. We've heard a lot in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far – we'll never listen to this, or we'll never do it with that, or we'll always want to do it with the other one, so here, after a certain time we'll see how it can be done at the end... So we should never speak – never, but on the other hand, it is important that we learn lessons from all of this and see how we will continue to restore credibility, in the first place to this institution where we are sitting, because it is evident that the way this is done today is not good. The very doubts we have about the law are unnecessary. So, the new parliamentary majority, the new political will is something that is legitimate and we need to stand behind it and we need to understand that as one of the principles. But all of this needs to be done in a way that's dignified and completely credible. I think that... we should break that practice, especially when it comes to these manipulations and, in a way, extra-institutional actions. What should be said, in order not to in some way have heavy words outside Parliament, nor here in Parliament, is important that we open all the important debates here, discuss them here, and that we end up here and shut them down. What exactly am I trying to say? So I am in favour of establishing a strong stable parliamentary majority. We also talked about the one before when we made it, that it would be strong, broad, as it is called, the 53 parliamentary majority that will be able to address this issue of country development, bringing the country back to the European path. So here, and after a certain time we have the same argument again with different settings. So what's unclear to me is how things are going to develop further is whether there are any next shifts. In what direction can I, say, go further into the debate within this parliamentary majority, who takes responsibility for why we are every little bit in this position, because we here in Parliament are the people behind all this, we are the ones who raise our hands and stand up politically, and in fact we are the ones who give legitimacy to what is done. I am in favour of inviting all of us here today to mention that we used to bring a member of the Presidency here before to make ourselves serious and to make this institution here, Parliament, so in this sense we all learn lessons from what we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to make ourselves, as I would say, worthy and serious. That's how others will understand us, because we're the ones who take responsibility here, we're the ones who vote, and we're the ones who're gonna get their hands on tomorrow when after a certain period we come to open up some questions here today that we suspect will come to us on the agenda. So, what if, for example, these big topics we hear here are going to come in a few months here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when it comes to the Electoral Law. We hear that there is this resorient working group that prepares the Electoral Law, closes the electoral lists, rules are adopted in which, for example, the mandate will belong to a political party, disabling the right for people to be elected directly by citizens, to announce the creation of some new electoral units. I don't think it's the right way. That's why today I've come to this point in the agenda, to say that, in a way, it also decides my vote on this agenda point. If in this way we are put in a position to bring us someone 5 to 12 and says – take it or leave it, it's what's called a political decision that's been made somewhere, so in a way that, without any clear answers, we need to be here people who are going to end up covering it like that. And then each of us will find ourselves more or less, sooner or later, in the same position when he simply won't be able to react positively. So I think it's important in that sense that we have a different rhetoric, a different approach to working here within this parliamentary assembly, that we don't get into those positions, because I think we're going to be in a situation where we're going to have to make some, to call them, different parliamentary majority, groups, people who are going to support this or that. I think that one principle of political seriousness, political responsibility should go in that direction that what will be negotiated somewhere as a political decision that we should vote for, so that we as parliamentarians are fully involved in this, this, from the very beginning, because it will give us space to be able to, and when we do, define ourselves to support it. For this reason, therefore, I am calling for this part to change, because, in some ways, it also decides my vote today for support or for refusal... to the proposal that we have on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10006	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on this agenda point and I am giving five minutes of time before we approach, in accordance with Article 166(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which is the vote to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the Minister of Transport and Communications and the Deputy Minister of Defence of BiH. / Please, we can see on the screen that Agent Hanka Vajzović is missing and she's registered. In accordance with Article 166(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I am voting in favour of the Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Communications and Transport in the Council of Ministers, Mr Slavko Matanović and Deputy Minister of Defence at the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Emir Suljagić. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 10, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH for 15, against 10.3 abstentions, RS 7 for, no objection, 5 abstentions. I agree that we have a general and entity majority, and that we have confirmed the decision to replace the Minister of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers Slavko Matanović and Emir Suljagić, deputy defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Request of MPs: Borislav Bojić, Nermina Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica and Damir Arnaut to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10013	Madam Chairman. So, very briefly. When I proposed this initiative for the first time, we had in principle our political commitment to want to go to Europe. We had a reform agenda, and then that big dilemma set up that's actually going to be further realized. In the meantime, we got an action plan. Now, on the basis of this Action Plan, we can see more clearly the seriousness and responsibility of each of us 56 in the system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the implementation of the Reform Agenda and the achievement of this European path. So, in the end, there was this compromise to be every three months. I also felt that it should be at every session of Parliament. Since it couldn't have been politically accepted then, we now have here every three months. I will suggest the only conclusion that we are constantly looking for this in every session, we can and will only waste time, to adopt today's conclusion – that the House of Representatives commits the Council of Ministers to keep the materials for each session of Parliament informed. We'll consider it every three months, but as long as they've come to get the information regularly, we'll take them into knowledge. Thank you very much. Whoever wants to deal with it, whoever wants to read it will read it, whoever won't, and we'll move on again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10014	Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10015	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would only, in the capacity of the chairman of the Joint Committee, say to the Parliamentary Assembly for European Integration that we were considering this initiative. We were really thinking, so what to do now, because there was also a question and our conclusions were adopted, so we were in a dilemma, so whether the time had matured for it to be today. This conclusion won't interfere with what I'm about to say, but perhaps today, if counterpart Šepić gives up, we should leave it for session 30. Namely, the Joint Committee on European Integration, considering the document made by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress on the path of European integration and considering the document Action Plan drawn up by the Council of Ministers, suggested that the College put this under two or one point at session 30, we will now see it, and that we are then also discussing this document and the Action Plan, and perhaps what you have obtained here in the material that is a lot of smut, I agree. So we suggest, therefore, that I do not suggest that today may be discussed, but that the conclusions be nothing, but that all colleagues leave them for that 30. The Committee's session will be held again on 23rd, and we will have, as I say, a thematic session, although it is not called, we will draw from that European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress one 6.7 participants and we will invite the most responsible persons from different institutions and prepare members of this Committee for Discussion 30, because we could not be prepared for this debate. So we're going to suggest maybe some conclusions from our session of committee 23 and we're far more prepared to talk about everything that's been written, and yes, here we are not talking as at some point earlier -- there's nothing, there's this or there's not, so on concrete suggestions. We will also have the Action Plan and the Report of the European Commission and we will be able to speak as we see it, and you will also have some suggestions for conclusions,..., the reflections of the members of this Committee, that is us 12. So, at least we'll be prepared completely, and you've been delivered the materials, I hope, or will be, so the ones I'm talking about, and you'll have a chance to prepare yourself better, too. These are extensive materials, at least when it comes to this Report, and here, as counterpart Šepić said, by interest, interest in a particular area can be determined and chosen, so for this debate. So I would say, here at the end, we've given a positive opinion here, we've received this information and there's nothing else we have left, but I'm saying, maybe you should leave the conclusions today for that 30, and maybe if you want this debate, because then you'll have far more material than you have now. Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10016	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10017	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out my satisfaction with the fact that we have a Council of Ministers report like this. The other thing is that I have certain comments, or suggestions, on certain provisions and items in this report. So I would say, if I didn't spread too much of this topic, about an indicative list of projects that can actually be read in this report and I don't know what the projects in the area of transport and communication are about, but for who knows which time I would mention the problem of Tuzla, Tuzlan Canton and the region of northeastern Bosnia. So, when I say that, I mean first of all on Tuzla, all the cities of Tuzla canton, and I'm surprised that not one MP from Tuzla canton discuss these things, which are more important to the people of Tuzla canton than all these other things that we are discussing here. Of course, I would like to point out that cities like Brcko, Bijeljina, Zvornik have such very, very big problems with infrastructure, or travel network. It is not good that a whole part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is practically left out of infrastructure projects in any sense, whether it was traffic communication, whether it was a railway or whether it was a radio traffic. I already talked about it once, and I suggested it, and I think it would be the right thing to do, that as part of Bosnia and Hercegovin not at the expense of others, but in any case as a good example of regional development, let's say, on the list of those to be taken care of, and not that the Republic of Serbia with proposals, which I welcome, practically infrastructureally solves these problems by means of Belgrade – Sarajevo, I don't know by quick road that will go from Belgrade, through Zvornik, one part towards Banja Luka, the other part via Tuzla and down through Central Bosnia towards the Adriatic. I really think it is high time that Bosnia and Herzegovina took care that the area is lagging behind and that the end should be taken care of. The next thing I would suggest is questions related to the Third Energy Package. Nor is this more detailed in this report, and I mean, I don't want to say that these are priority issues, but in any case these are issues that close attention and must be devoted, because this will be one of the very, very serious problems in the process of bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the EU. So, and that's what we're talking about, that's how it went very quickly, but here again, to say that one of the limiting factors is also the issue of the gas law which is very problematic in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's the thing to talk about, and that's the thing that the Council of Ministers has to do to get attention and to practically inform this tall House. From all of this, there is so much besides all these, as I said, remarks or not many remarks, but which concerns exactly this infrastructure travels as well as the energy package I think this is a good practice and I don't think it's correct that we're looking for it every month, because I think it's quarterly, what we've adopted, quite something that is well-intentioned, well, recommended, because that way, the Council of Ministers gets the space to make that report quality. That in those 3 months, he can make certain moves, especially in the process when it comes to intensifying all these processes that I want to believe will be present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we will all stand behind these procedures that are significantly faster to lead us to Europe than we have ever been before. That's it. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10018	Dušanka Majkić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10019	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, let me just say briefly, I have to admit that this material we've received I couldn't understand as information about progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European pathway. That is not, this is the answer to Senad Šepić, and perhaps as an MP, this could not have been delivered to Parliament and this is how it is answered. Why? Here, so I would like to say just one sentence from this part because it says that Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU integration programme should be a report on implementation. Thus, the development of a programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the EU is not possible until the decision on a system of coordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in force. I have to say that lately, a little, a little bit of someone on television has been showing us, explaining that here we have just come into a position to submit a credible request to join the EU, and you are all deliberately silent that the coordination system has not yet been resolved. Recently, on several occasions, Mr. Vigemark warned that all our preparations were in vain if the issue of coordination was not resolved. I know that Republika Srpska ended it, we know that the problem is expressed at the level of the Federation of BiH. It would be good to finally know if someone is going to solve it and whether it's going to work out eventually. There is no story of any other matter until the coordination system is resolved. So we didn't get an answer to the key question, because this is a key prerequisite, and we expect that in the next reporting that goes towards us, the Council of Ministers will explicitly declare itself until we have resolved this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10020	Thank you. At this point, I no longer see the debates reported. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Information on the assessment of the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency with proposed strategic options, the BiH Export and Credit Agency material According to the conclusion of the 12th House session, held on 28.05.2015. The Export Credit Agency provided the Information. The House College has appointed a competent Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs. The Commission submitted its opinion on the Information 08.12.2015. The commission has adopted its conclusions and is proposing to the House their adoption. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the argument at point nine. We're moving to point 10, 59 Ad. Ten. Consideration of BiH Parliamentary Initiative Jasmina Emrić, submitted on 17.11.2015, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings (hereinafter referred to as: the Treaty), initiates the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty in order to re-tegorise the permanent border crossing for border traffic of Kordunski Leskovac – Tržačka Rastela to the border crossing for meunational road traffic of passengers."
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10023	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all who follow the work of this session today. I only wanted to talk about this issue that was also on, one of the points of the agenda on the Transport and Communications Commission, we supported it there, I only wanted a few words or perhaps a suggestion from fellow Emrić, who is the applicant of this initiative. In fact, it's about the issue that was raised by fellow Šepić, and everything is about the Indirect Taxation Department, because they got in charge of the Council of Ministers somewhere in half of 2009, yes, they got, therefore, the jurisdiction to boss over the border crossings, and here it is about that. In addition, there have already been some issues, the initiative and the chairman-in-Office of Džaferović who asked – why are border crossings and other colleagues in such a state. I mean, it would be good to have this initiative in two steps somehow that, if Col. Emrić agrees, that the first step would finally be to open this transition which is a major issue for the local population. That's their big problem, that crossing is never open. The Cazin municipality has invested its resources, the Directorate for indirect taxation, of course we are all witnessing how it manages these border crossings, actually invests nothing, everything is abandoned, we have the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina, anyone to go to, to cross the border, until millions are safely spinning there, spinning money, that nothing is being invested in the crossings of this. And what I'm saying is it would be a good first step to open it up. I am iznenaċena by today's comment by the Council of Ministers' chairman that some mixed committees are forming. What mixed commissions, I have a ratified contract in which the same tržački raštelica stands on the list of crossings and is never open. Who needs any mixed commissions to now, when we have the Directorate for indirect taxation, whose head is the same man who is also the President of the Commission for Integrated Border Management, we have this Commission that manages the border. What have they done so far? We're always entitled to no obligations, no responsibilities. And I think it would be good to seek first, colleague Emrić, first to ask for that transition to be opened, then only then to retegrate and then to talk about me as an international one and as one. In any case, some 85 of these disaster crossings would be full of hands. Not if we had one item on the agenda here, but if we had maybe a whole session that would do this, we'd have something to do, which would deal with this issue of border crossings where really the situation is chaotic. 60 Thank you, here, so in two steps, especially if I may add, especially if we have a contract made with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and it is very clear, and now this issue, this initiative, in fact, would be a problem that needs to be addressed with the EU. It's not as simple as it used to be, it's on a long stick. So first, let it be opened, and then we know both about Herzegovina and the protests and what they are, what all the people in that area have, they have trouble after this contract that no one has ever answered for who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10024	jasmin Emrić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10025	I thank the chairman. At the beginning, I would like to say that I agree with my colleague Vajzović that the border traffic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia must be respected and that this crossing of Tržaška Rastela – kordunski Ljeskovac for border traffic should finally be opened. takoċer I would like to explain the proposed initiatives of several notes, which are related to the history of this problem, i.e. earlier initiatives and requests submitted to the competent institutions and authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to finally resolve the issue of crossing the state border at border crossings in northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to remind you that in the past 10 years, the municipal chief of the Cazin municipality has repeatedly addressed the Council of Ministers and the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the requirement that the permanent border crossing for border traffic Kordunski Leskovac – Raštela Rastela be opened for residents of the border area so that they can cross the common state border under the terms of the border regime. Therefore, the requirements in question explain the need and justification of the retegorisation of this permanent border crossing for border traffic to the border crossing for international road traffic of passengers. In the last ten years, we have witnessed, there have been several parliamentary issues with the intention of encouraging the competent authorities of our country to access more actively and implement the Border Transport Agreement. Since, after 10 years, the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not initiated a procedure in accordance with the requirements of the Cazin municipality, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty by removing, in Article 1(e), the permanent border crossings for border traffic point 6. kodrunski Ljeskovac – Raštela Rastela, and in subparagraph d) the border crossing for the international and road traffic of passengers will be added to the new point 10. kordunski Ljeskovac – Raštela Rastela. The proposed initiative aims to resolve the several-hour wait for the crossing of the state border at the active border crossing of Velika Kladuma – Maljevac. Analysis of facial and transport traffic statistics shows an increase in all segments of traffic at this border crossing. For example, the increase in traffic in 2014 compared to 2013 for the transport of persons was 21%, i.e. in 2014 the total face-over was 1,842,000. For passenger motor vehicles there is a traffic increase of 27% and for freight motor vehicles 48%. Traffic has been constantly increased on weekends, on Fridays and Sundays, and on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. The waiting time for the crossing of the state border in optimal conditions is 30 minutes, while at the time of the large columns, which have been frequent, waits from 2 to 3 hours. The weekends and holidays form columns of vehicles from 1 to 3 km, even when working in three or four lanes at that border crossing. In such situations, the flow of transport in the city centre of Velika Kladude was completely blocked when 61 other city services and traffic were disabled. This initiative proposes discharging the border crossing of Velika Klajuda – Maljevac in the fastest procedural manner by retegorising the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela – Kordunski Leskovac for the transport of vehicles and faces for a large number of citizens gravitating this area, and it is estimated that there are around 22 thousand citizens who could use this border crossing. This initiative has a particular impact on the development of this area in both countries, local communities have a great interest in quality integration and exploitation of development resources, as well as the improvement of existing transport infrastructures in order to communicate daily between citizens of both countries which have a basis for traditional cooperation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please support the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10026	Senad Šepić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10027	Here, I'm not gonna repeat something we've already heard. Today, in his speech by Zvizdić, about to the end, he showed us a positive relationship with him, and he understood the problem of how important it is for us to finally identify ourselves concretely on this issue. So it is true that for many years this has been said, both in Parliament and in local communities, we have received these initiatives from the cantonal governments. We have been talking for a long time about not having formed these, as it is called, the Commission for Integrated Border Management, and then the Commission for Determination of Borders, etc. The fact is that while the Republic of Croatia was only one country, which in this sense was treated as a partner, we missed that opportunity, we did not resolve this issue. In the meantime, this has now become a little more complicated, so it is now the EU border, so it will require one, as I would say, more engagement, but it is important for me to show here to the end of this political will that I can say that I see in some way. It is important to open this way here in Parliament. And here, just two brief conclusions about this. So, colleague Vajzović has already said one thing that I have written here and that I will therefore propose as a conclusion, which is that the House of Representatives today invites or obliges the competent institutions to urgently complete the process of opening the Malaranian crossing of Raštel Rastela and providing border passes for all citizens in the border area who need these passes. So, I was talking about these things in 2013, 2014, after that, it's still not done. Now here we have, I think, raised it to the highest possible level, the highest possible level, and I believe that now it will finally be the seriousness and responsibility to end this. And the second thing is, of course, to support this initiative to urgently commit the institutions, the competent institutions of BiH that are now... to talk to Croatia and the EU to support this initiative regarding the retegorisation of this small-scale transition to border, i.e. the border crossing for passenger traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10028	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10029	Thank you very much. 62 I don't have an option here, I just wanted to add, it's not about correcting the wrong quote, it's about a replica or a supplement, to come back just, I don't have a source here, I can apply for a debate or for this false quote. So, I just wanted to point out, to encourage your initiatives, the Treaty only says to call for bilateral, bilateral resolution, because in the Treaty, permanent border crossings for border traffic and this Raštelica, the tržački Raštelica has me with this. So the second step to be then what's more complicated with the EU, and this can and should be done by those who are currently in charge of t, very easy to solve people's problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10030	Žeko Komšić, debate. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10031	Ladies and gentlemen. With the full support of fellow Emrić's initiative, therefore you will have my vote for, I only call for one kind of caution, i.e. I am obliged from experience as a member of the BiH presidency to mention some things. I remember when it was negotiated with the Republic of Croatia, i.e. not only the Republic of Croatia but also Brussels, the European Commission, when the border crossings were decided we had a big problem even Izačić to put, so to speak, into that quota. From Brussels at the time, it is no longer just a matter of Zagreb, yes and you know it, of course the consent of Zagreb can be very helpful, this one, but it is not all in the hands of Zagreb, from Brussels we are told that given some assessment they have made of how to protect the borders, so there are various standards, from the phytosanitary standarts, etc., etc., that the European Commission's assessment that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs only four such crossings at the moment. I'm asking you to keep that in mind, if you knew that, because, uh, with full support for your initiative, I'd like, after all, that we have a lot more transitions to not make people a problem when it comes to crossing, first of all, goods across the border, because here is the biggest problem crossing goods across the border. But on account of the experience we had with getting Izačić into the quota, so to speak, these transitions, I'm just telling you that we have that in mind and to be realistic, uh, when we evaluate whether this initiative was realized by the Council of Ministers, no matter who it was or what it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10032	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10033	Thank you. It's here, I'm afraid it's a mistake, I'm looking for an international transition, and this story comes down to BIPs, and we got four of them. This is for all possible goods and traffic of this, the international one for transport would not have to involve such activities and certainly could not have been obtained for the Rastect, nor could it be asked for such a BIP. But if it had to be opened and it could be and it's not all of me, not everyone up at Bihac's. Thanks, just, so there's only four of those BIPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10034	I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, 63 Ad. 11. Rang-list of successful candidates for the appointment of five members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, foreign courts for the offences provided by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the PSBiH The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 04.12.2015 provided a report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates for the appointment of five members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been carried out, in accordance with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The proposed ranking list is the following: Azra Alajbegović, Mile Lasić, Brana Spasojević, Aleksandar Faladžić and Alma cola. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden on Development Cooperation 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10039	We're going to line it up. Let's just split it up. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10040	Split it up and we'll put it in, here. Here, do you agree at 4:30 or will you be ready as soon as possible? [[Common discussion]] Right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10042	Ten minutes break to split the conclusion Šepić the Paws.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10043	Let's split up, have some conclusions, so at 4:30 we vote. We're moving to a statement by point from today's session. Please all register neatly. We're going to vote under point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives. We are voting on the adoption of the minutes with the conclusion that it is in charge, meaning the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Professional Service to examine these proposals and suggestions which today referred to the minutes and to inform this House. Of the 31st total – for 15, against 8, abstentioned 8. Federation of BiH 10 for... _________(?) Say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10050	There's no 2/3 against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10051	And there's no 2/3, so, from the Republic, it's adopted, so amendments have been adopted. Now, it would be logical to maybe vote in this sense on this conclusion, not on the second point, even though it's nothing. Here's a vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Damir Arnaut. Do you want me to read it? _________(?) You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10052	And to bring this together now...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10053	Thus, at the 21st session, the House of Representatives is tasked with the Department for the Making and Announcing of Legal Acts to bring the full text of the Law into line with the numbering of articles resulting from the adoption... of amendments, i.e. to correct the invitation to individual articles of the Law in accordance with the nomenclature resulting from the adoption of the amendments. That's not possible. This is the conclusion, but here. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10054	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10055	Come on, we'll vote so...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10056	...now all the story... Now we have to vote yes, there's no story, because we didn't get anything then. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10057	Of the 39 present – for 25, against 7 abstentions 7. Federation of BiH 18 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions, RS 7 for, versus 3, abstention 2. There's a general, there's an entity majority, so we've adopted the proposal of Damir Arnaut's conclusion. We're moving on to point six. – Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10058	With the amendments that we...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10059	Ha, listen, we're voting on the bill, amendments have been passed. Of the 39 present – 34 for, versus 5, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 22 for, 5 against, no abstentions, RS 12 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted an asylum bill. We're going to point 7. – Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Haiti – Proposer: The BiH Presidency We vote on the validation of the Decision. Of the 39 present – for 38, no objection, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS – 12 for, no objection, no abstentions. I agree that we have confirmed the Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti of the proposing BiH presidency, meaning with the existence of both the general and entity majority. We're going to point 8. – Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01-50-1-15-16/15, link number: 01-50-1-853/15 of 28.10.2015. (Realisation of the initiative of representatives of Senad Šepić, adopted at the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 27.08.) 2015). We are voting on receiving information. Of the 39 present – 24 for, no problem, 15 abstentions. Federation B iH 17 for, no objection, 10 abstentions, RS 7 for, no objection, 5 abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority and we have received information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's requirements on the European path. We move to the point, we now also have the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić: – The Parliamentary essence of BiH's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Directorate for European Integrations to continue, and at least once a month provides information on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda to all members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Of the 39 present – for 18, against 3, abstentions 18. The Federation of BiH 17 for, no objection, 10 abstentions, RS 1 for, against 3.8 abstentions. 68 So there is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, Republika Srpska no. Is there a match?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10060	Leave it for later.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-10-1.u10061	We're leaving, so we'll agree later. Moving to point 9. – Information on the assessment of the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency with the proposed strategic options, the BiH Export Credit Agency material. We're voting on receiving this information. Of the 39 present – 24 for, versus 14, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 17 for, 9 against, 1 abstention, RS for 7.5 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have received information on the assessment of the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency with proposed strategic options. We move on to the point, we also have a proposal for conclusions from the opinion of the competent committee, which reads, these are three proposals for conclusions. Should I read them to you? _________(?) You don't have to, you don't have to. You don't have to. We are voting on the proposals for conclusions from the opinion of the committee responsible. Of the 39 present – for 24, against 6 abstentions 9. The Federation of BiH 17 for, 2 against, 8 abstentions, RS 7 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusions of the Commission's opinion. We're going to point 10. – Review of BiH Parliamentary Initiative Jasmin Emrić, submitted on 17.11.2015, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings (hereinafter referred to as: the Treaty), initiates the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty in order to re-tegorise the permanent border crossing for border traffic of Kordunski Leskovac – Tržačka Rastela to the border crossing for meu-national road traffic of passengers." Of the 39 present – for 34, there are no, with no, abstentionsive 5. The Federation of BiH 27 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 7 for, no objection, 5 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the initiative of Jasmin Emirć, which is entrusted by the Parliamentary House of BiH to the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings (hereinafter referred to as: the Treaty), to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty in order to retegorise the permanent border crossing for border traffic of Kordunski Leskovac – Tržačka Rastela in the border crossing for international road traffic of passengers. 69 We vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the Senad Šepić, which reads: – The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly obliges the competent institutions to urgently end the process of opening the Malaranian proposal of Raštel Rastel and ensure all citizens in the border areas of the border pass. We're voting on the proposal for a conclusion from Senad Šepić. Of the 39 present – for 34, there are no objections, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 27 for, no objection and no abstentions, RS 7 for, without against, 5 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the proposal of the conclusion of Senad Šepić, which reads: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly obliges the competent institutions to urgently end the process of opening the Malanian proposal of Raštel Tržačk and ensure all citizens in border areas of the border pass. We're going to point 11. – Rang-list of successful candidates for the appointment of five members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the PSBiH. We are uniting the vote on the selection of five members of the Independent Commission against the rankings submitted by the Interim Joint Commission, and the proposal for a ranking list is: Azra Alajbegović, Mile Lasić, Brana Spasojević, Aleksandar Faladžić and Alma Colo. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 15 against, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 14 for, 10 against, abstention 3, RS 7 for, 5 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general majority and the entity majority, I find that we have selected five members of the Independent Commission to the rank-list provided by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes, which are: Azra Alajbegović, Mile Lasić, Brana Spasojević, Aleksandar Faladžić and Alma Colo. Moving to point 12. – Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden on Development Cooperation 2014-2020 We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. Of the 39 present – for 39, without opposition and abstentions. The Federation of BiH 27 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 12 for, no objection, no abstentions. With sufficient general and entityal majority, I agree that we agreed on an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden on development cooperation 2014-2020. I thank and conclude, uh, all of you on, for the 21st session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session of the House is planned in an hour, and I ask all of you MPs not to enter into this session or cell phone or any other session that will be closed, and your personal belongings and documents, of course, you can take and take with you. So, at 6:00, we start with an extraordinary session. Session completed at 5:00.
