ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5797	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 10th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments/representations, esteemed guests, our regular guests are invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, I welcome them here and I welcome them at the head of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. At today's session, representatives of the BiH Post Traffic Agency, the BiH Gender Equality Agency and the Central Bank, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session, were also invited. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MPs Mladen Bosić and Staša Košarac. According to the service information, 39 deputies are currently attending the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions in oral form, as part of previous issues, I would like to introduce you to the Central Election Commission of BiH today, on 8 April 2015, delivered the decision to suspend and grant the mandate to the next qualified candidate. Namely, the Central Election Commission of BiH determined the termination of the term of office of Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 31 March 2015 for appointment as BiH Minister of Finance and Treasury. The term of office was assigned to Mr Predrag Kožul as the next qualified candidate from the list of political entities of HDZ BiH, HSS, HKDU BiH, HSP Dr Ante Starčević, HSP Herceg-Bosnia for the award of compensation mandates. On 8 April 2015, Mr Kožul signed a declaration of acceptance of the mandate. The assurance of the mandate was given to Mr. Kožul this morning at a session of the Central Election Commission of BiH. I now urge Mr. Kožul to join in giving a solemn statement in order to take over the parliamentary rights and obligations, and I ask you to stand up while a solemn statement is being made.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5799	I'm committed to 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5800	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5801	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5802	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5803	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5804	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5805	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5806	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5807	Mr. Kožul, on behalf of the House of Representatives, and on my behalf, I would like to give you my sincere congratulations on this solemn statement and on your newly taken office. I wish you successful work and... /
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5808	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues of the media. My question was asked for the meeting on 11 March 2015, I was 5 minutes late with the handover of parliamentary issues, so at this session I am now taking the opportunity to ask representatives of the Council of Ministers – When will the Council of Ministers approach the development strategy and social inclusion strategy at the state level? The European Commission in its Progress Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014 said no agreement could be reached in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the preparation of comprehensive strategies for key economic sectors. Key investment sectors, such as agriculture and rural development, energy, environment and transport, are therefore not included in the country's strategic document to the beneficiary of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the period 2014-2020 or in the programming of the IPA II programme for 2014. Lack of agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and entities has led to the cancellation of rural development projects needed for future IPA funds and has resulted in a loss of significant EU aid to farmers. For this reason, it is extremely important to approach the development and adoption of the Strategy for Development and the Strategy for Social Inclusion at the state level. It was supposed to be done by the former Council of Ministers. It wasn't done until today. I do not expect a reply from the Honorable Council of Ministers today, but I would ask the Council of Ministers to address this very important problem of the present and especially for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in line with your programme exposé that you have shown us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5809	Thank you. Let me remind you, therefore, the question can last for two minutes, the answer is also two minutes, after which the MP has the right to comment. I ask the chairman whether he or any of the members of the Council of Ministers would like to comment on the matter? Mr. Denis Zvizdić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5810	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the President, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives. I welcome you and wish you successful work. Although the honourable representative did not ask for an answer to the question, which is quite understandable because this Council of Ministers was appointed only 7 days ago, I can only give a few introductory notes or information which can explain more clearly the question raised by the honourable representative. 4 Namely, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Development Strategy and the Social Inclusion Strategy 2010-2014 was done, by the Economic Planning Directorate, together with the accompanying action plans already in 2010. And although not adopted at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was therefore adopted in the Brcko District and the Federation of BiH, it was nevertheless a quality basis for creating and applying co-operation for IPA funds, since there were strategic provisions and there were sufficient coordination structures to implement certain parts of these strategies. Of course, it must be revised since it was adopted in the '10-14 period. We'll go to the adoption of this '14-20 strategy. in line with EU-BiH 2020 and South-Eastern Europe 2020 documents, which will be a strategic framework for the development of new documents related to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Strategy and the Social Inclusion Strategy, which will allow us to have a better approach to IPA II funds and, of course, provide basic guidelines for the economic and social development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next word is Mr. Senad Šepić. He asked three questions. I remind you of the Rules of Procedure, it is only possible to ask one question and get one answer, so please follow those provisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5812	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, – What has been done so far has been done and at what stage is the process of negotiating regional, infrastructure, transport and energy projects within the so-called ... agendas, and preparations for Bosnia and Herzegovina's positions for an announced April conference in Brussels, June in Riga and a August conference in Vienna? A brief explanation: In August of last year, at the invitation of Chancellor Merkel, the foreign ministers of the Western Balkan countries attended Berlin, where the process of negotiating infrastructure, transport and energy projects of regional importance was launched. The same EU has pledged one billion euros from pre-accession funds, and these funds are expected to attract an additional 10 billion euros in investment in the Western Balkans region. Since August last year, two informal and preparatory meetings have been held regarding these projects. In October of last year in Belgrade and 15 days ago in Pristina (?). According to EU Enlargement Commissioner Hanna's Hana, the prime ministers of the Western Balkan countries will be invited to meet in Brussels on 21 April. The finalisation and final agreement on a concrete list of projects should be completed by the Vienna conference, announced for 27 August this year. Given the importance of this process and the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make as many agreed projects as possible useful for our country's economic development and better integration with the region and the EU, it is very important that all competent institutions carry out quality preparations for negotiations on concrete projects, and that this Parliamentary Assembly be informed about all this. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5813	Thank you. Representative of the Council of Ministers – who will answer this question? Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5814	Dear Mr. Chairman and members of the College, distinguished representatives of the House of Representatives, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for asking the question of the honourable representative Šepić. The answer will refer to the first two issues of the Ministry of Communications and Transport's competence, while it is part of the issues related to energy projects in the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. When it comes to co-operation between resolutions, it should be noted that the implementation of tasks from the agenda..., __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The employment of the foreign ministry is therefore necessary to ensure good co-operation between the three ministries. Bosnia and Herzegovina actively participates in the work of the Southeast European Transport Observatory, popularly called..., as a regional organisation. The work on working on the Transport Community Agreement for EU and Balkan countries has been successfully completed, and the agreement is in the realisation phase. We did not welcome unprepared activities on the project trail..., concerning which the issue has been raised, but there is a problem with defining priorities when Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, taking into account the responsibilities of transport infrastructure in the entity's domain. When it comes to improving transport infrastructure defined in regional frameworks and of regional importance, there is a clear view of all the competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is articulated in our request to modify the sieve of the network, i.e. the expansion of the basic transport network. A meeting in Brussels envisions defining the final core network of six Western Balkan countries. The results of a meeting in Brussels are the basis for the remaining two meetings, which you mentioned, concerning the organisational aspect in Riga and the financial aspect in Vienna. The huge lack that currently burdens the area of transport, which we have found, is the lack of an entire state transport policy, a framework for the joint action of all executive authorities. Although the procedure for the adoption of this roof strategic document reached the agreement of the overall executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the framework transport policy was not approved by the BiH Parliament. Therefore, the adoption of the Framework Policy as a necessary condition for access to transport infrastructure funding funds will be at the top of the Ministry of Communication and Transport's priorities in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5816	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. The word has Mr. Mirsad Isaković, a representative. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5817	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome you and wish you good work today at the 10th session of the Parliamentary Assembly. My question is very brief and direct. – Is the Framework Budget Document adopted in 2014 for three years next year, since it is not on the Ministry of Finance's website as provided for by the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Article 5(7)? A brief explanation: This document is key in drawing up the medium-term planning and budget-making process by methodology based on best international experience. The development of the Framework Budget Document for a three-year period has become common practice at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that it is based on government priorities and policies, the Framework Budget Document is a useful instrument in creating a better strategic basis for the allocation of budgetary resources. The framework budget document sets out a fiscal strategy and budget plans for the next three years and aims to develop a better strategic basis for budget preparation. It also provides the basis for budgeting based on an assessment of the economic development and development of the social sector, a macroeconomic indicator, and a forecast of revenue and expenditure for the years covered by the Framework Budget Document. An important goal of the document is to ensure a comprehensive and... a framework for expenditure planning at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, pooling data on the fiscal situation. It is therefore necessary to use projections and find competent institutions such as the Directorate for Economic Planning and the Department for Macro-Economic Analysis at the Directorate for Direct Taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5818	Thank you. The answer to this question will be given by the finance and vault minister, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5819	The president, members of the College, distinguished MPs, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. A specific question, a very short concrete answer. Document of the indicative budget for the period 2015 and '17 the year was done by the Ministry of Finance and... delivered to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. He was not discussed and adopted because of the fact that the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, which I led, agreed that all important documents such as the DP for the period 2015-'17. and Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2015 Budget Act does not consider, i.e. to decide on the same decision by the Council of Ministers, which we considered to be a minimum of correctness. The document referred to in the procedure was drawn up in accordance with the adopted Global fiscal balance sheet and policy framework for the period 2015-'17. the year, which means that the budget framework for the next three years is 950 million marks, under which funding of indirect taxes of 750 million is foreseen. This amount can be corrected in 2016 and '17. The year... changes in total income from indirect taxes in the process of revising the Global Fiscal Framework Document, which is all in line with the Law on the fiscal council of BiH. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not ask MPs Kapetanović and Šepić if they had any comments on the answers given. They have the right to comment. Mr. Šepić if you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5821	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5822	I'm sorry. So I ask why Mirsad Isaković has any comment. Here, you have the right to comment, and that was my failure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5823	Of course. If I am well aware of the Prime Minister that the 2014 Framework Budget Document and the 2015 period, '16. and '17. I repeat, therefore, it is not done, or has not been accepted in accordance with the legal regulations, i.e. the Law, in Official Journal No 49, on amendments to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, so when it was due to be on the website of the Ministry of Finance by 30 June 2014. Thank you very much, but I'll ask, if you'll excuse me, one more thing to get in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5824	Okay, thank you very much. The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5825	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I know the Council of Ministers was formed seven days ago and I will not ask about the implementation of what was promised but I will ask about the part of the Prime Minister's exposé that is unclear to me. I don't know if you have defined in the coalition the relationship to the recording of 63 locations of the perspective military property, which is highlighted in the exposé as one of the strategic issues, and I would like to know that. And if there is no coalition any common position on this, I would like to know the position of the chairman in relation to the recording of military property – Do you intend to propose a law or do you think there is no need, that is to say, as a basis for writing down 63 locations of perspective military property, you can use the Constitutional Court ruling?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5826	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5827	Thank you, Chairman. 8 So, the position I expressed in my exposé was primarily related to access to the MAP and, of course, there is a high degree of agreement within the Council of Ministers that we will do everything that will allow us to enter the MAP's reporting at the first NATO Pact summit to be held in September or October of this year. When we talk about the condition, which is writing 63 persceptive locations, of course we'll go with that variant that will allow the quickest solution to that question. Whether it will be a matter of the Constitutional Court ruling or will be related to the existing decision taken by the Presidency in the previous term, we will, of course, decide as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5828	Thank you very much. Do you need to comment? Mr. Magazinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5829	I have, and in advance to announce a question at one of the next sessions. So, in public too, it was quite undetected, but we all need to know that the recording process has begun and that it is already under way, that several locations have already been registered to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the courts in Republika Srpska have annulled several cases where prospective military assets have been allocated to other legal entities and have returned it to the process as it should be, in order for this property to be registered, that all of this includes the defender. And for this reason, I am surprised why the Council of Ministers will only decide on the method if it is already a process that Minister Zekerijah Osmić has started and which is already giving its results.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5830	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5831	Thank you. My question is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr Šarović, which reads: – Can you give us a brief overview of what Bosnia and Herzegovina has done in the last year and a half and what conditions still need to be met in order to allow milk exports to EU countries? And how many decisions by EU countries to abolish milk production quotas can endanger our producers and lead to increased imports of milk to Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5832	Thank you very much. Ministare Šarović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5833	Mr. Chairman, vice-president, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. There was another question, it seems to me in the announcement, but I'll answer it later. Downloading EU legislation and EU standards is one of the key preconditions for exporting our 9 products to the EU. ... very few agricultural products Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far met the conditions for exports to the EU, which is, first of all, fresh fish, honey, raw skin and soon, as you heard in the announcement, and potatoes, probably in about 10-15 days. During 2012 and '13. There have been significant steps taken in meeting the conditions for exports to the EU of milk and milk products through the adoption of this so-called House. The hygiene package, i.e. five key European directives relating to the control of products of animal origin. But the control mission, an FVO mission from Dublin, during a visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina in January 2014 gave six recommendations, namely six remarks that Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions are obliged to remove in the coming period if they want to secure milk exports to the EU. Over the past months, no significant progress has been made in this regard, and I would say, two key issues related to the establishment of a chain of command in the milk control system with one institution that would guarantee the quality of milk, and... those controls, official controls, or audits of official controls, as well as an observation relating to the quality of raw milk, or the insistence of Dablin to take into account only those farms which, when it comes to the quality of raw milk, satisfy EU standards. In that sense, this ministry is working intensively to remove and the remaining obstacles that we face to exporting milk to the EU. In this sense, an interresor working group has been formed which currently, I would say, even today, is working on the specific amendments and additions of three key documents, i.e. three laws – the Veterinary Act, the Law on Agriculture and the Law on Food in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For us, the Veterinary Act is particularly important in which we need to establish official control as ordered by the FVO mission. Are we ready to establish this official control we must respond to Dablin by April 12th. Unless we respond by 12 April, we have probably lost any opportunity to export milk to the EU for this year and perhaps some longer period. This is about meeting the conditions for exporting milk to the EU. But, if I understand correctly, you have also asked about this current situation regarding the abolition of milk quotas within the EU that came into force a few days ago. I would like to inform you that the decision on the gradual abolition of milk quotas for EU Member States was made in 2009 and it is then clearly said that the gradual quota will be abolished in order for the full abolition to take place on April 1st 2015. I'm saying this in order to simply understand some things and to understand that this decision isn't from yesterday, it's been known practically for six years. The aim of this Decision is, above all, to increase the market share of the EU milk industry, especially in the markets, the growing markets of India, China, the Far East, whose demand is growing around 2% annually. This is the EU's internal decision that Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot count on, but it really needs to be repercussed and the consequences of preparing in the coming months. At first, we will probably have a very, very, I would say, bitter match within the EU, i.e. large and small, and we will probably know the result in some future period. In the context of this EU Decision, in recent days, there has been a heated controversy in our public about this and especially about safeguards related to the abolition of quotas in the EU. I would like to introduce you to the fact that the issue of safeguard measures has been regulated by the Council of Ministers' Decision which has been precisely defined that it is the Council of Ministers who can, after meeting certain conditions, introduce safeguards for a particular product. In the case of over-exportation that the Ministry of Foreign Trade has conducted the previous procedure and that it has been correctly established and... procedure for such a thing. 10 I would like to inform you that Croatia is entering the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5834	Time, time minister, just please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5835	Here, for a very short time, I think this may be the most important thing, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has maintained protection measures on milk and these today are 10% plus 0.15 KM for milk to 3% milk fat, or 10% plus 0.25 KM over 3% milk fat. You know the EU's insistence to abolish these safeguards through adaptation. I think instead of fighting for new safeguards we need to do everything, I mean all the institutions, that these protective measures that per litre of milk are at least 0.35 KM we certainly keep because Brussels already insists that we approach negotiations on this matter. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5836	Thank you, Minister. I would really ask, I did not want to interrupt the answer to this question because it is an urgent matter, an urgent matter to be addressed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I would ask you to handle the Rules of Procedure in the future and take care of this time or change the Rules of Procedure, I don't know, whatever you want. As long as he's like this, we have to respect him. Word, Mrs. Pandurević, would you like to make a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5837	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5838	You don't want to. Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5839	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister and Minister, distinguished guests and my question concerns the same topic of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So, – What will the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations do in co-operation with the entity ministries of agriculture to protect domestic milk production after the EU's decision to abolish milk production quotas? So they were completely abolished and entered into force, not this since 2009. They, therefore, have abolished quotas after 30 years, which means that in EU countries they will be able to produce unlimited quantities and that milk will, of course, end in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and given that they provide significant subsidies in the EU, this could certainly destroy domestic production. – Will you introduce special customs duties on imported milk from the EU because it is subsidized? Will you limit the quantities of imports to protect domestic production? So, when will you create assumptions for exporting milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU? 11 This part that I have heard the answer from the esteemed minister is about to go what we have to measure, we will see, we will make an analysis. When all these things happen and our milkers are destroyed, then we will say, "Yes, that's what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so who's going to take action now?" It's too late then. The EU, which invented these regulations, has a problem pulling a move and solving problems for its citizens. Macedonia also has the problem and is taking measures fearing excessive imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, etc. Well, I would like our Council of Ministers and Parliament to take action and protect our citizens in time. When that thing happens, it's the end of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5840	Thank you very much. Ministers, two more minutes, on the same or similar subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5841	Thank you. Maybe it'll take less than two minutes. So, the issue of imports of milk and other products when it comes to the EU is defined by the SAA, i.e. the Interim Trade Agreement. And once again, Bosnia and Herzegovina has, meaning, protection from imports of milk coming from the EU, not when it comes to the EU Agreement, and at the moment, to every litre of milk entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, this safeguard measure is 10% of the entry price plus 0.15 KM for milk, milk fat up to 3% and 10%, respectively, plus 0.25 KM for milk over 3%. And of course, there's another tariff, but this is the milk that usually enters Bosnia and Herzegovina. That, I would say, is a significant protection for every litre that enters Bosnia and Herzegovina from the EU. We must focus our energy on keeping these safeguards in place, since Brussels, or the EU, insists that the SAA be adapted after Croatia's entry into the EU. This Ministry, the Council of Ministers for these, I would say, for almost two years has not allowed these protective measures alive, but I assure you that it will be one of the first requirements in Brussels, even of course it may come to the question of the entire SAA. We have to prepare ourselves for that, now at this point, so domestic production has this protective measure and I think that, in my opinion, we should do everything we can to keep it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5842	Thank you very much. The word has an MP, I apologize, comment, yes, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5843	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister reiterated, here we have measures, okay, but I am interested, and surely even more milk producers, do the Minister and Council of Ministers argue responsibly that these measures are sufficient, enough to protect our dairy producers? Yes, therefore, the possible increase in imports of milk from the EU to Bosnia and Herzegovina will not lead to the destruction of our milkers until then, here, until we prevent them from exporting milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, to measure the duration and to give 12 guarantees that there will be no destruction, and of course we will, at some point, create conditions for exporting milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5844	We can't have any more discussion about this issue, I'm sorry. I would ask, if the representative insists, to deliver everything that needs to be written in writing, and I would ask Mr. Minister to do so, and we will move on with the questions. The word is Mr. Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5845	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, the Honored Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, or Vice-Presidents, before I ask you a question I wish you hard work and hope for success in the coming period. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Chairman and Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH, which is – What is the composition and who are the members of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina? When will the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 8. Annex 8. The Agreement on the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments shall take responsibility for the continued functioning of the Commission, i.e. the appointment of domestic members of the Commission for the preservation of national monuments instead of the present two parties, since the mandate of the Commission for the conservation of national monuments has long expired in this period, so 5 years after... The deal? It should be noted that this year it ends 20 years from the Dayton Peace Agreement and the absurd is that there are still two sides in this Commission, while, for example, the transfer foreseen by the new member was made to the Central Bank of BiH after the first term of office expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5846	Thank you. The word has the minister of civil affairs, Mr Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5847	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, colleagues and fellow ministers. The Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina was established by aneks vi. The Dayton Peace Agreement. In Article 2. Annex VIII. The Dayton Peace Agreement states that the Commission numbers 5 members, that within 90 days after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Federation of BiH has appointed 2 members in the Commission, Republika Srpska 1 members for a term of 3 years. The Director of the Education, Science and Culture Organisation will join the appointment of the other 2 members for a term of office of 5 years and appoint one of those 2 members chairman. Members of the Commission may be appointed again during the term of office. At its session in December 2001, the BiH presidency joined, decided to establish a Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and appointed members of Dr Amra Hadžimehmedović, Dr Dubravko Lovrenović, Dr Ljiljana 13 Ševo and 2 members by Dr Zejnep Ahunbaji and Dr Martin Čeri. On 27 March 2007, these same members of the Commission extended the mandate and the mandate expired on 27 March 2012. When will the Council of Ministers take full care of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's what we're going to do when the BiH presidency tasks the Council of Ministers to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5848	Thank you. Mr. Prodanović, do you need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5849	I'm perfectly clear on aneks vi and Article 8. The Dayton Peace Agreement relating, therefore, to the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments. Thank you for your response, which is quite correct and exhaustive, but what I expect you to take over within 6 months in accordance with this article. If that doesn't happen, I'll ask the question again. I don't think there's any reason for the Commission to make any old member to preserve national monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5850	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5851	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I have a question for the Ministry of Security – until when do you plan on keeping it at the Immigration Centre, i.e. A camp of strangers named Imad el Mistri St. Abu Hamza deprived of BH citizenship due to a alleged threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina's national security? I note that the person mentioned has been deprived of his freedom for 7 years and is in the institution mentioned, and my question is – until when, as when, as when, as the reasons of his stay in this, will I dare say, the camp, because it has been deprived of all civil rights? Are you going to propose amendments to the OSA Act to avoid the will of one man to bring such a difficult qualification to destroy human lives, which is contrary to all possible international conventions on human rights. I note that, according to the EU directive, it is possible to keep a stranger in the Immigrant Centre for 180 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5852	Thank you very much. The Secretary of Security isn't here. We got here, I don't know if the MPs got the answer in writing. Does the MP continue to insist that the answer be given directly at the session?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5853	I got this answer in writing. This is when you put your head in the sand and you don't want to solve the problem. Namely, the only one, here we can call it the NN face has been staying for 7 14 years at that Immigration Center. They are now trying to "very urgently" by saying that they do not have faces under that name. Whether his name is Imad EL Misa or Imad EL Husein or I don't know either, I don't have his home number anymore so I can give full data, but I say one person stays at the Immigration Centre for seven years and I think it's gone too far. This is a Parliament that needs to protect human rights, to protect democratic principles, but obviously if the person is a threat to national security, banish him. You have a law of possibilities. If it's wrong to press charges, prosecute him, convict him. And if he isn't then let him go or send him to his home country, let him go and live his life. But obviously this is a shame for the whole state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this has gone beyond measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5854	Thank you. Please prepare for the next session, when oral questions are raised, for the requested oral response by the Minister of Security. Let's move on. Mr. Safer Demirović, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5855	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I will read it, so – Is there a possibility of a free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EFTA countries, or countries of Europe that are not EU members? I mean, there's actually this kind of agreement... I believe that this agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina should also be concluded with these other countries for the purpose of freedom of trade and the exchange of goods between our country and European countries that are not EU members. So, is there any possibility of a certain bilateral agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Republic of China on free trade at least related to re-romats, since here China is being imposed as a serious investor in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5856	Thank you very much. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5857	There are two questions, thank you. Well, the shortest answer is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has concluded a Free Trade Treaty with EFTA countries, it is countries Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein. This Ministry and I personally worked intensively on this Agreement during 2012 and 2013, and this Agreement was ratified here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Agreement entered into force on 01.01.2015. This Agreement provides for full liberalisation for industrial products, partial liberalisation for agricultural products, i.e. foods, fish and fish supplies and very limited liberalisation for basic agricultural products. Based on bilateral agreements with each of these, so the annex has to do with each of these countries separately. 15 This Agreement also has an asymmetric application. All four countries have been fully open to Bosnia and Herzegovina since 01.01.2015, and as far as the EFTA countries are concerned, the openness of the Bosnia and Herzegovina market will not be until 2017. By this agreement, Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would say, integrates into so-called European economic space with, I would say, those 4 key freedoms of movement of people, goods, capital and services and which together, means, with countries, 28 EU countries, 4 EFTA countries and EFTA countries, makes up a space of 39 countries. In the past few months, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a steady surplus compared to the EFTA countries. And when it comes to China, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this ministry is not thinking about the Free Trade Agreement with China, given the great competitiveness of Chinese goods and besides, it is very much a matter of thinking, whether it is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina. But in the context of your question to say and to say that, if we had the Customs Tariff Act, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law adopted in 2013, along with, I would say, a heated debate in this House, where imports of repromation from countries such as China and some other countries, from third countries, where imports of repromated with the Council of Ministers' Decision are allowed, with the suspension of quotas for processors, or export-oriented industries. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5858	Thank you, Minister. Does Mr. Demirović want to make a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5859	I just wanted to thank Mr. Secretary honestly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5860	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we have exhausted this part of today's session regarding asking oral questions and giving oral answers. I would like to ask, thank the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers for their answers, to ask that what remains of the discussion by the Council of Ministers is respected until the next session, so that the answer to one question in writing and prepare an oral answer to one question. I think these are the obligations that have arisen and that we will repeat at the next session when oral answers to parliamentary questions are discussed. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the meetings of the Commission on Transport and Communications and the Finance and Budget Commission were held in preparation for this House session. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. To the agenda of today's session, add: Point 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Point 3. Confirming the appointment of the deputy minister of communication and transport to the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? 16 Mr. Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5861	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I propose, in accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, a new item of the agenda within today's 10th session of the House of Representatives, which reads – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the Representatives' House. The motion for a decision and an explanation all MPs came forward, so I don't think there's any need to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5862	Thank you. The word was requested by the vice president, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5863	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, respected and respected colleagues and colleagues, associates, respected representatives of the public media, I warmly welcome you all, and here I want the successful work of this session. Since we are in the week behind the great Catholic holiday Easter, I wish to congratulate all the believers of Catholic religion who live and celebrate this great holiday, but as we find ourselves in the week, almost a great week of Orthodox, all those who live and celebrate Vaskrs, here I want to congratulate the performing holiday of Vaskrs. Now, my proposal would be, to supplement the agenda, I suggest three points. One is the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the parliamentary delegations; the second is the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the third item would be the Proposal for an amendment to the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct the procedure for selecting members of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar. Namely, a brief explanation: Mr Predrag Kožul has ceased his term as representative of Vjekoslav Bevanda, and today we have appointed, or confirmed, a new representative, Mr Predrag Kozul, and it is necessary for both the club and the representative to meet their obligations in order to ensure that commissions, delegations and temporary commissions can have a quorum for work and decision-making that today we make changes to the proposals of these decisions and conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5864	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the agenda? 17 Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5865	Just business intervention. In accordance with Article 71. We didn't get the Rules of Procedure material in written form to include new points.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5866	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to a plea. I invite you to make a statement about the SNSD Club's request made by Mr Prodanović SNSD. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the two MPs, we will repeat the vote on this item of the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Six votes for, 30 votes against, two abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has not accepted this request. We're moving on to a statement on Mrs. Borjana Krišto proposals. We are voting, therefore, on the first proposal to include the agenda item related to parliamentary delegations, right, amendments and additions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 26 votes for, without votes against, with six abstentions, I find that we have placed this item on the agenda and that will be next in line, so the 12th point of the agenda. Then we go to the proposal on amendments and additions to the Decision on the Permanent Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, no problem, six abstentions. I also find that we've established this agenda point, that's the point of the 13th agenda. And point 14. refers to the formation of the Joint Commission of both... 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5868	Amendments to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5869	So, the proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5870	Amendments to the conclusions on the establishment of a temporary common.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5871	Yeah. So, it's okay, it's not what I thought, we adopted a conclusion last time that we formed a Commission to conduct a competitive procedure, so there are six persons and among them is Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. This is all about the replacement of Mr. Bevanda and Mr. Kožul, there's no need, all these materials, so, you have, there's no need. I'm gonna tell you again to do this and get those materials delivered, but I don't think there's any need to. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, no votes against, five abstentions. I find that this item of the agenda is also adopted, that's the 14th point of the agenda. I ask the services to deliver these concrete amendments to the commission of Mr Bevanda and regarding this Joint Committee to the representatives and where Mr Kožul is going, that we have this in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, after this I declare that today's session session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 3. Confirmation of appointment of Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport to the Council of Ministers of BiH; 4.. komentar on questions received; 5. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-5/15, of 26.03.2015; 6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act in BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-3/15, since 26.02.2015. (law in first reading); 7. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the amount of tv tax - Proposer: Commission for Transport and Communications, No: 01/5-29-1247/14, of 23.03.2015; 8. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2014, issue: 01,02-16-1-366/15, dated 10.03.2015; 19 9. Report on the status of gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012-2014, issue: 01-37-384/15, since 16/03/2015; 10. Information from the Central Bank of BiH on credit users' problems with the Swiss francs indexing clause (CHF) and measures taken to address these problems, act No: 01-50-1-185/15, dated 17.03.2015. (Realising Parliament initiative Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 26.02.2015).; 11. The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of the group officers Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the peace support operation Resolute support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, issue: 01,02-03-296/15, of 23.02.2015; 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 13. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Permanent Commissions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch Members in Banja Luka and Mostar. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. So the first point is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Do you have any objections? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5875	on the appointment of Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina as Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport in the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Saša Dalipagić is named.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5876	Thank you, Chairman. I'm opening a debate. Mr Asim Sarajlić, chairman of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable members and chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So, according to the chairman of the House, in an announcement of this point, the Commission held its session this morning and discussed the decision to appoint a deputy minister of communication and transport to the Council of Ministers delivered by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Denis Zvizdić. The Chairman also provided the materials prescribed in addition to the Decision. After seeing the material received, the debates carried out, and after being appointed as deputy minister, answering questions from the Commission's members to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers, the Commission decided to recommend to the House of Representatives that Mr Saša Dalipagić, candidate for Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, meet the conditions. Most of the votes cast such a decision on the Commission this morning, and we have passed on such a decision to the chairman as you have already heard in the introduction. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5878	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're voting right now on the confirmation of this decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 votes for, 3 votes against, 5 abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives confirmed the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint the deputy minister of communication and transport to the BiH Council of Ministers, namely Mr Saša Dalipagić. I call on Deputy Minister, Mr. Saša Dalipagić to make a solemn statement so he can take over his duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5880	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5881	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5882	That I will knowingly perform my duties, Saša.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5883	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5884	respect BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5885	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5886	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5887	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5888	Mr. Deputy Minister, on behalf of the House of Representatives, and on my behalf, I would like to extend my congratulations to you on your current solemn obligation and on your assumed duty. I wish you a lot of success in your work, as well as the entire Council of Ministers. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on with the session. It's the fourth point, Ad. 4. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you all here in the O.R. I am sorry that the Minister of Civil Affairs has come out, since I have a response to the initiative that I have addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and received a response to this initiative, and it has been a financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national team in large European and world competitions, that what has been done so far is insufficient, especially if we have in 2008 a budget for sport of 1,300,000, a pardon of 1,300,000 marks, and that in 2014 it has now fallen to 500,000 marks, which is not enough for a single team, and let alone for a number of teams that have the aspirations to participate in quality competitions. Given that there is a need for quick affirmation or a quick story of Bosnia and Herzegovina's positive in the international public, I think that the question of sport is completely marginalised, completely incomprehensible, and that in this sense my initiative and the resulting answer, which 23 gives me for the right to refer to this initiative, would have to bring a position, in a more high-quality position especially for those teams participating in major global competitions, as well as individuals participating in world competitions. I again call on the Minister of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers to reconsider this initiative once again, and to respond adequately to help Bosnia and Herzegovina's representative sport, especially since it is not only one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, but because players and representatives and individuals are from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this is the common interest of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5892	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm concluding, therefore, the debate. Moving to point five, that's it, Ad. 5. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 26 March 2015 with a request for an urgent examination in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who wants to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for it, didn't ask for it. Mr. Mirsad Mešić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5894	Ladies and gentlemen. I call on MPs and MPs to support the urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. In this way, we have been able to correct the kind of inactivity of this House, or the Council of Ministers, which in the previous period failed to systematically resolve the functioning of the Public TV System in BiH. This Law prevents the financial collapse of public broadcasters, and provides a new Council of Ministers with sufficient time to bring systemic changes to the functioning of the Public TV System BiH. I am also obliged to note that the extension of the deadline covered by this Law is supported by entities' transport and communications ministries, i.e. public TV broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once again, I call on you to prevent the collapse of the TV system by your serious relationship with this proposal in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5895	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5896	I thank the chairman. We're not going to support an emergency procedure because five years was a deadline and it was known that we had this problem and it had to be solved. The Board of Systems for its dissatisfaction of seven, has a legal obligation to hold each month's session. They hold 5 sessions instead of 12 sessions. And that nelado, so we hate to give them 84,000 marks, 12 times 1,000 marks, times seven months during which they did not hold a session. It's funny in this memo signed by the directors of public services, to be called on, that so far there is no payment solution, in which way they charge because there is no corporation. Article 18. Public TV system law says it's the work of the System Committee. I wonder what the Board of Systems has been doing all these years except charging for his unhappiness? Not to mention the problems of digitization. This Law that we currently have, the Law on the Public TV System, has completely become an inapplicable law, a passed law, it speaks of analogue public services and we need to move on to digitization. I don't know if that's gonna happen, though, 'cause we can see that we've got problems here, too. I think we should reject this and ask the new Council of Ministers to deliver a brand-new law here, and public services have their own incasant services, so let's get a nice subscription. I know that RTRS only employs 70 new people from Prijedor who do something there, actually do nothing, so then I can transfer them to incasants and collect a TV subscription.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5897	Thank you very much. The word is from Mrs. Borjana Krišto, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5898	Thank you very much. Here, I read the Law and, of course, I listened to what Honorable Representative Mirsad Mešić said about the explanation. And when we look at the provision of an article that speaks of a period of some kind, we may also be able to discuss some sort of proposal or some sort of justification for amending this Law by an urgent, or urgent procedure. However, I fully support all of this, which Pandurević said in connection with this Law, and I will certainly try not to repeat it, but I will also remind all of us that there were obligations to amend the Law on the Public TV System, that there is, that this Law is, of course, unconstitutional and inconclusive, I will repeat it many more times, and, of course, add that the Council of Ministers was obliged to propose amendments to this Law. So in a special way, I am surprised that the representative who comes from the SDP, in which we had a minister from the same party seven days ago, did not even propose on our initiative and at the request to adopt it, to make one law systematic in both organisational and financial terms, and in that proposal in which it asks the Committee of the Systems to propose these amendments to the law, to determine the fee of the RTV, means. However, we did not do so and were not in a position to get a proposal to amend the laws of the Council of Ministers, or technically made by the resolution ministry. Today we have a proposal in which, here from the opposition from the same party, we are asked to adopt this Law by hasty procedure. I really don't want to comment on anything but to tell you what kind of system it is, let all the assessments, and I can say that neither will we support a hasty 25 procedure and in this way amending the law, nor this law in terms of the proposal that has been delivered to us. But I also support the proposal and that we all be serious and responsible and that this and the new Council of Ministers' meeting consider this situation and that it provides us with a thorough law on amendments to the Law on the Public TV System that will fully comply with the system and that will protect both the broadcaster system and, in a way, their financial part in terms of their survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5899	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5900	It's not really a replica, it's a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5901	Well, about that, that's what it's called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5902	Mrs. Krišto, so the Ministry of Transport and Communications proposed this law almost a year ago, but that law never came to the Council of Ministers. Let's guess why. So my idea is very honorable, it needs to ensure the continued functioning of the TV system and the creation of space first and foremost the new Council of Ministers to arrange this area. We are all responsible for both the previous mandate and the Council of Ministers, but that is why those who use public TV systems should not suffer. We in the SDP have, of course, huge objections to the functioning of public broadcasters, but we have no idea of jeopardizing their functioning because of, say, the termination of the funding method.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5903	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5904	I thank the chairman and welcome my colleagues and colleagues and all those present in Parliament, the House of Representatives. So, this is the only or rare opportunity that since last time there was a debate also at the session about public TV, or about the TV subscription and its amount, and today is my chance, so to express my dissatisfaction, because last time I didn't have such a chance, with how that session ended, and especially as he spoke to the chairman of the House when he talked about proposals, so to bring a full change to the law that troubled this one, so this question. Today, we listened to the words of the oath, and we said, therefore, that as representatives and ministers, we were obliged to protect the equality of all the peoples here and their interests. So, when exposed and asked for one of the interests of a nation, therefore which does not satisfy this public TV system and of course we will not support, as already my colleague, Deputy Deputy President Borjana Krišto said, because she does not solve, therefore, the needs and interests of all those who would like to consume those rights when it comes to the broadcasting of the Public TV system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 26 So such words as have ended the debate at the last session I cannot accept, therefore, I will never support anything until the legitimate request of a representative of one of the constituent people has been resolved, and therefore we have heard from the oath that this must be provided and satisfied in this House. Therefore, I also support the words of Ms. Aleksandra Pandurević, and we will certainly treat this proposal as well, especially for the urgent amendments, so we will not support it in particular. We are looking for a full change to the Law on the Public TV System in BiH that will meet the needs of all its peoples and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5905	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5906	I thank the chairman. I welcome all those present in the O.R., if I start counting now, we'll leave. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] By spring, just like that, which won't come at all. We, as serious, hope serious representatives of those who have chosen us, still have to approach this problem accordingly. This is too complicated to say we won't. Namely, what was called the collection system was distributed, and this was distributed by the decisions of those who are the authority of this Assembly, set up by this Assembly, that is the Regulatory Agency for Communications. So then cable operators got part of the jurisdiction of telecom operators, it's fixed telephony. These fixed telephonies are not in the records of state operators, or operators, that is Telekom Srpske, BH Telekom and Eronet. And then you have a situation where on one floor in one building you have three to four operators, people have three to four different operators who pay for their fixed telephone services. I'll tell you this, it's very simple, HS, Logosoft, My TV, uh, on the same floor are completely different and only one salary, the one that's on one of these three mentioned operators. And then these operators remembered so they started buying, buying, and only one, because these two can't because they're in the dominant state property, that's Eronet and BH Telekom, Telekom Srpske started buying cable operators. Well, then in Sarajevo, few people know that Logosoft is equal to Telekom Srpski and that it's a telephony that entered Sarajevo, but it's not registered and citizens don't pay. And then I go back to what my colleague, HDZ, says before me. I agree – full equality, full, full, full, full, of all peoples and all citizens, but then I hope we do not get Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci in this segment. Because then will all the communities look for their channels? I'm not talking about what the constitutional category is here, and the constitutional category is equality across the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Will we then look in Republika Srpska special channels for Hrvat, for Bošnjak, for Srbin? I think we need to think about it, because it is an operator called Republika Srpska, and there live three constituent peoples and all other peoples and citizens who are within the constitutional definition where it says the equality of the constituent peoples and citizens and others living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And since these are still three operators belonging to us, or the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they finance themselves in the way we determine, we need to be as responsible people and find a way to provide them with life until we do something here in the parliamentary procedure. If we're going to make some changes to the law, if we're going to look for some changes within the system and how these systems work, if we're going to tear them out of the growth of the party's one-brains. Mrs. Pandurević, when I say party one-mindedness, because that is true for both the Republic of Serbia and the Federation, if we are going to do so, are we going to make them a real service for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's a whole other question now. We are here to do so, to be the service of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are obliged to ensure that they become them. I'm very unsatisfactory, very, every time I say cut what's said against and let go of what I didn't mean at all, but cut and that sentence means quite another to the context of the total discussion that I had. And then, to forgive my colleague Nermina Kapetanović, they then let Nermina go and cut what she says – I completely agree with Mr Backović because, and this is still her release and it turns out that I was saying the opposite. Yeah, that's right, but I have no way of stopping it, because I can't influence editorial policy, but some obviously can. Take a closer look at the guests of the show, constantly three political entities, only three, it seems that there is no one else in this country. Or in Republika Srpska one, one, one, and then it comes to 55 more, and again 55, and again another and so on. But we have a duty to legally provide conditions for them to work independently and to be truly independent. We should make sure they can still live because we own them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5908	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, the Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. Matanović, answered the word. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to speak as soon as he applies for the discussion and I give the word to the Minister. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, the word has the Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5910	Thank you, Chairman. I would like here to inform the House of Representatives that indeed the Ministry had in the procedure of the bill similar to the proposal which was discussed under this point, although not in the emergency procedure but in the ordinary. Here to inform this House that it is not a permanent solution but an intervening temporary measure that will be in place by the end of the tenth month. A team before public services had already secured contracts with telecom operators about how to charge, about extending the existing method of payment. The deadline will allow the Ministry of Communications and Transport to make a quality proposal in co-operation with all stakeholders for how to charge RTTV fees in the future. I would therefore recommend, in front of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, this distinguished House to adopt the proposal for an emergency procedure. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5911	Thank you. Now there's business intervention, wait a minute, slow down. Mr. Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5912	Thank you, Chairman. Article 76. The Rules of Procedure say that the Chairman of the House gives a word to the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not keeping the established agenda as soon as he asks for a word. But it is not a member, which I wanted to refer to, but I would just like to remind you that the agenda point – the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to discuss the draft law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH is an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133, and that we should, and we are not doing so, conduct a debate on the urgency of the procedure, so if we determine the procedure then open the debate that you have already allowed. If we respect the Rules of Procedure when we restrict time to question, then we should both in this and every other case, I think that all MPs should be equal and those who respect the Rules of Procedure, as fellow Mešić did and explained why he thinks this should be in an urgent or urgent procedure, and those who do not adhere to the Rules of Procedure and say things that they think are important to say, but for which it is simply not the time. I would really ask you to lead the session in that direction or, here we are, consulting, maybe the club will request a break so we can analyze the Rules of Procedure in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5913	You see, like this, so I'm really trying to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I'd ask you not to make it harder, but to help. You have the right to rest, we'll give it away, but I think there should be a reason for that. You know Mr. Magazinović that this is an old question and that it is difficult here to separate the debate on urgency from the essence itself, you know and why it is so and this will be one of the questions on which I will insist that the Rules of Procedure be arranged in detail. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please be nice, you have the same position all of you, as far as I'm concerned you all have the same position. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5915	Thank you. So, I agree with Mr. Chairman. You can call for a discussion and talk, too, since we opened it that way. So, Mr. Backović, I'd like to replicate it the following way. Well, good for that kind of concern, for that sense of equality, we'll just see it when the hands are up and we've seen it so far. This Law, which is in force on the Public TV system, does not satisfy one public, one part of the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina that I belong to, so we are looking for a complete solution. Therefore, this is not a product of our desires and wills and we are not equal, we are not 29 equal and our desire and interest is not fulfilled. Therefore, when we come to that solution, we will see how you will respect it and how it will affect your vote. And last time you too, except for the chairman, I didn't mention you, so in this part of my discussion, you were talking about when we started the debate, talking about which there is never time, Mr. Saša, about divisions. You started talking about other things right away. So you simply minimized a legitimate requirement that has been here for years in front of this House. So you're talking about divisions, about something we've never actually done together. Only when, Mr. Backović and colleagues of others, we make a common public TV system legally regulated, will we be able to talk about that we want something out of it. Until then, therefore, our interest and those we represent is not satisfied, and here I am, as you said, expressing the interests of those who chose me. I think I'm expressing their interest and that he must be respected in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5916	Thank you. Please, please, so this is a debate and I owe it now, after all this, I didn't want to interrupt anyone, to warn you that this is a procedure debate. The debate will come at the end of the session when we vote on the procedure itself. And I think that's the main problem and we'll intervene when the Rules of Procedure is done, because this debate should be about the essence only at the end of the session. When we enter the voting procedure, you know there's usually no such discussion at the time. But whatever it is, I'm asking you to try to separate as far as possible from the process and the essence. I'm obliged to warn you of that, because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. I don't have any other options. The Republic is owned by Mr Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5917	Dear colleagues, in this House, the representatives of your political party first entered in 1996, and since then they have been constantly present, and they are one of the creators of the law that we have. You say no, I don't see any other law. So they've been there the whole time, the whole time since '96, I'm very precise. So talking about something and obstructing it right now is something that's out of his mind for the simple reason that we own it. And we need to find the modality to make it work. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, thank you for your information. But you heard me say that a huge number of operators, called cable, took on a fixed telephony, and I told you, on one floor, that floor I live on, I, at my place, is now being paid in the next way – come incasant and bring in an account...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5918	Procedure, procedure, replica. This is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5919	Well, the replica is because it's been said that a deal has been reached, only then are the citizens damaged. Some have been denied the right to pay. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5920	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5921	Well, the replica is more about the apparent violation of the Rules of Procedure by some MPs. I understand the chairman, but I would also like to invite the chairman to, to put it this way, a little more resolutely warn of some provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Because the provisions of Article 133 are still clear enough that they make a very clear distinction between what is an emergency procedure and what is happening, provided that the emergency procedure is accepted. And in this sense, it is absolutely unacceptable to use this item of the agenda today, so in the application, that individuals use even an emergency procedure as a matter of vital national interest. Absolutely unacceptable. Abuse of both these points and Articles 77 where there is evidence of infringement and those provisions in terms of deviation from the agenda. The poslanik Mešić used his business rights, proposed amendments and additions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we can discuss what was offered to amend and supplement. Who is defending his fellow Lovrinović from proposing this whole solution or any other solution that we can discuss. But it really doesn't make sense that in this way we are harassing the entire House and bringing both the chairman and the other MPs in the position that, here already several times they have to intervene when it comes to very clearly specified business provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5922	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5923	I really need to look at the findings of a respected colleague, Bećirović, that this is about some abuse of vital national interest. It is not Mr Bećirović, we have the right to state our position whether we feel we should or do not need an emergency procedure. What has the Board of Systems been doing for five years? How could they not have agreed on how to pay the tax? What we pay if I don't know how RTRS operates for two years, because they break their legal obligation and don't deliver a report to the National Assembly on financial operations. We still haven't seen the 2013 Financial Business Report. But that's why there's a new RTRS plus channel that doesn't have a RAC license to work and that appears in a cable operator. So is that what we're dividing citizens into people who live in the city so they can watch two channels of a public service because they have cable operator and those who live in the country can't watch anything, but there's a fixed phone so they have to pay that TV subscription. Besides, the charge via Telekom, I think it's deeply discriminatory for a simple reason, not all people have a fixed phone. And why someone would pay, someone wouldn't pay. And what was the system committee doing, I repeat, what was the system committee doing for five years, so they can't agree? And why because of this kind of work of public service, because they haven't finished the first phase of digitization, we're now bringing, we're actually going to get to media darkness here. We won't, very possibly not have analog systems, we won't be able to watch commercial television.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5924	Thank you very much. 31 I therefore warn one more time, it is a procedure. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5925	My colleague Denise, if, since you said so, I apologize, someone is harassing this House, it's you. So, you've been harassing this House and I've never talked in more than five minutes unlike you, if we're going to talk about it. So, I am not harassing this House, and if you are harassed by the request of one representative of the constituent people, I am sorry, because your mouth is full of therefore, and multiethnicity, multiculturality, the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the protection of the rights of all. So I'm sorry to bother you. I was hoping it wouldn't bother you, and I hope when I offer that whole solution that you will support it and that we will take this point off the agenda once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5926	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5927	So I know very well what I'm talking about and there's no problem in repeating it again, so it would be good to read the provisions of Article 133. The Rules of Procedure and to clarify, perhaps for the future work of Parliament, which means a request for an emergency procedure, which means a debate that will be opened afterwards. So it would be really good if we tried to figure this elemental thing out. And the other key thing is, no one here has banned any MP from proposing and offering a solution. It is important to thank fellow Mešić for offering one solution. We have yet to debate if we accept an emergency procedure on this solution, not to interfere with the provisions set out in Article 133 and which are divided – first the urgent procedure request, and then we open the debate on the matter. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5928	Mr. Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5929	The Honorable Chairman. I must point out that I am extremely glad that EU leaders have decided to do what we call a new EU approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is also a fact that Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci is no longer an elimination link in our path, but it is also a fact that it will be a question that we will quickly face, given that we will meet what we have committed to in this Parliament. I therefore believe that we must not act as if the condition does not exist and that we should not ignore the issue of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac. Everything I've said makes sense, but it has nothing to do with what's on the agenda. And this is how MPs who are today discussing the agenda, where they should declare an emergency procedure or regular procedure on the proposal of MP Mešić, who did so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 133. The Rules of Procedure are very simple, and I suggest we stick to it, otherwise every session will look like a storybook about everything that's in someone's heart, not taking it for evil to anyone, but there is a place and time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5930	The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5931	I thank the chairman. I totally agree, that was one of the reasons why I answered my word, to point to Article 133. Rules of Procedure. So, I agree with these interventions earlier, but also, if you permit, I will point you to Article 76(1). The Rules of Procedure which clearly states, and we have pointed out this before, so it is not the first time that I point out this, that when a business intervention happens afterwards, the chairman of the House will decide on the justification of the complaint regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I'm afraid that doesn't happen. And that's why we have here a debate about whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt, whether he's hurt. So, on the moment of business intervention, I do ask you in the future that, in accordance with Article 76(1), you immediately decide whether or not there is, or whether it is justified or not justified, and then we can move on. And as for the very point of the agenda, I will, of course, stick to what Article 133 provides very clearly. I really don't see that any amendments to the Rules of Procedure about this are necessary. This is where we discuss an emergency request. The SBB club will support the emergency procedure request and if it comes, if it is adopted, we will also support the bill's proposal. Article 133, therefore, is a matter of urgency, says very clearly that the Proposer can ask the House to fully consider the proposal of a high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected in a single reading. I think it's quite clear that this is a high-level emergency law. So, deadline expires, you can correct me if I make a mistake, 25th of this, 26th of this month. So that is, if we can agree on the definition of high degree urgency this definitely falls under that definition. I also think that all MPs have seen the bill, I think we can all absolutely agree that it is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely. Now, why else is it, why is it still a high-level emergency law? Well, among other things, because we have searched the very detailed exposés of the chairman, now the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in which he has not said a single sentence, and we remember that we have had a very extensive exposure of more than two hours, he did not mention this problem even though it was around his corner. So, his exposés we listened to less than two months ago and he absolutely didn't mention him anywhere. On the contrary, this is what we found in the area of transport and communication. It'll take this much, this much in the exposé of over two hours in the area of transport and communication. There's absolutely no mention of the urgency of this question, and it was around the corner, and here it is at the door. So I'm still sticking to Article 133. Rules of Procedure, I am talking about the urgency of this procedure, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers less than two months ago did not find it appropriate to talk about the urgency of this issue, that is, this issue, and as we have seen today, the ruling coalition has not quite agreed on this. Anyway, the SBB Club will back this up. It's an extremely important matter. Bosnia and Herzegovina needs strong Public TV service and should not be slow about it. And about how urgent this is, I think there really shouldn't be any thinking, and I'm still insisting, I'm going back to this, so I'm going to Article 76. Rules of Procedure, in the future please, then we'll avoid these problems. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5932	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Monika Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5933	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. This could be under the line. I'm like this, I have to admit, found in a few previous dialogues, replicas, that the Hrvat are... a community. We all know that the Hrvat are the constituent people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think we should insist that the Hrvat have their own channel in their own language as well as the other two peoples. I don't see any reason why we should be separated, why we should be different than the others. What is... urgent here, and it is urgent to amend the Law on the TV system, so that Hrvat have a channel in their language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5934	The word is Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5935	I thank Mr. Chairman and welcome all present. I would like to join my colleagues and support the urgency of amending the proposed Law, and the urgency is explained by the acts that have been delivered to us. Among other things, what I would like to emphasise is the act of the Committee of the Public TV System in which he, in January of the Council of Ministers, referred to a request to be delivered urgently to the Parliamentary Assembly of Amendments of the Law, as well Mešić to his proposal to deliver to us, and here emphasizes the effectiveness of public TV broadcasters in BiH unless a quality solution is found, and here we have already heard a discussion on the module and how to charge a TV fee, and this is a very complex process that will obviously continue. This is about a very urgent intervention, it only extends the deadline of the current model of billing for RTT. It is a general interest, the public TV system in BiH must function. And I call on my colleagues to, in accordance with our obligations in this Parliamentary Assembly, support these amendments and allow this temporary way so far, the temporary way of charging RTTV fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5936	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Damir Bećirović, and then I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5937	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry the debate went through this. I must say that MPs of the Democratic Front will support this request for an emergency procedure, because it simply seems to some that there are no public broadcasters. It is certain that there are a large number of objections to the work of all public operators, all three public operators. But we need to see what's been going on for the last few years. We must not simply allow ourselves to be irresponsible as the past Council of Ministers and the past 34 parliaments, meaning that he has done nothing on this matter. Provide opportunities for the new Council of Ministers and Minister of Transport communication to propose a full solution for both charging and managing public broadcasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5938	Thank you. The speaker, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5939	Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm going to be very brief on two problems. One concerns the Rules of Procedure, and the other concerns the urgency of this Law. We'll obviously have to change the Rules of Procedure. It's not working, people, let's discuss it today, that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, that procedure, the kind of procedure. These are discussions that must be brief, and this is a debate that ends very quickly, and then that we have a fundamental debate tonight or afternoon when we get somewhere in the middle of the vote, when we vote on the agenda points. We will have to amend this provision and it will be my suggestion when the Rules of Procedure is amended, by making a statement on the procedure as well as the appointments immediately. And so it will be possible to hold a quick debate, and then after that, if the procedure is adopted, to open a debate on the essence. Then the chairman has the possibility of cutting, that I might not use a different term. This kind of thing is very sensitive and let me have an obligation, and those who sat here at this table earlier know that I'm taking care of the sensitivity of this issue. So that's one thing. And the other thing, we're going to have to settle the question of applying for a discussion, we're going to have to leave for a while, not all the time while the agenda is going on, and then we're going to leave the possibility just for the replicas, and then we're going to also respect the time and call on the wrong allegations. So, if you want to introduce order, this is the order that needs to be arranged in this way by the Rules of Procedure. I know perfectly what needs to be done. All I need is the support of all of us. So much for the Rules of Procedure. I call upon the House of Representatives to support this law. The people on TV, therefore from the system, came from the service to the College, suggested, pointed to this problem and to the Council of Ministers were leaving. April 26th is a serious problem, the system will not be able to finance itself from that day forward. And I call on this House to extend this time for six months, and then to hold a debate, first and foremost within the Council of Ministers, and then here at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, of course, in the Prlamentary Assembly, on all matters. We have solutions that we have. We can only have a new one if we agree on them. We must respect the existing and allow the system to function within existing solutions. And I'm asking you not to get into a situation where we're the ones responsible for what's coming after 26 to back this up today. I also call on the Committee of Systems and the Ministry to give good interpretation to the provisions of the existing Law which speaks of the collection of RTS fees. I remind you, the modeling committee is in charge, and five years after the first permit, which expires on 26 April, is only an exception to that rule. I think alternative solutions should also be considered if today would have happened 35 if this hadn't been supported by the House of Representatives. The law provides enough opportunities to save the situation, but first of all I invite you and us here to support this solution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5940	Thank you, Chairman. Is it Saša's pig or is it a mistake? It's a debate. Here you go, Saša Magazinović for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5941	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. I agree with the chairman in what he has put forward through his proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure, at least in this first part of the article 133, but so as not to fall into the trap that I am breaking my Rules of Procedure too, I will stop here and say about the urgency of this Law. The very content of the Law corresponds to an emergency procedure with its degree of complexity. So it's a simple law, where it's only changing the deadline, which was April 26th, 2015 at 26.10.2015. I also believe that within the time period this Law would give, therefore, six months, both the Council of Ministers and MPs, who have the ambition to engage more actively in solving this problem, would have enough time to propose a comprehensive solution. And as a Dom, I don't think we have the right to tear down the Public TV service, no matter what justified or less justified each of us thought about it. Some of these discussions remind me of it as if someone wanted to throw a car at a waste that was new because they didn't like the way the driver drives. The people in whose hands is the steering wheel, who run the Public TV system, are variable, and we have a responsibility to the whole system. And for that reason, I believe that in an emergency procedure, we need to adopt this law, buy, under quotes, those six months, and give the opportunity and a new Council of Ministers' meeting to show how much it can do in this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5942	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the six-day point, Ad. Six. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović (the law in first reading) The House College as the Commission failed to agree on this proposal for a law in the first reading. The debate is closed, we will today only plead on this item of the agenda in the second reading. Point seven of the agenda, 36 Ad. Seven. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the amount of tv tax - Proposer: Commission for Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have no intention of discussing this report, but since yesterday at the Expansive College, I asked a question of purpose to discuss these reports, because there are no discrepancies of our discussion that are not on such reports. And I really don't see any purpose for Dom to deal with these issues, and I suggest to you and all of us that in the time ahead, and you mentioned the Rules of Procedure, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we also consider this, 37 conditionalally speaking, the problem. I don't really see any purpose in having these reports and we can't make any decisions about those reports, we can't plead. And really, I may not be right, but I don't believe that we have so many obligations and jobs of another kind, that we do other things that are much more important, but that we just listen to this, and that we don't say anything about this, or that it has certain consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5948	Thank you, Mr. Đonlagić. So this is an important question. It concerns the realization of what we adopt as a House of Representatives. I think we might be able to deal with these questions. I agree, today if we adopt this, there are recommendations that someone should follow. First, to perform, and someone to follow. But if I were not to replicate and violate the Rules of Procedure now, Mr. Mirsad Isaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5949	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Given that I am the President, or chair of this Commission, I consider it appropriate that and in a reduced form for the public, of course, for all of us, I would explain what this report is about. At its 3rd session, the Committee on Gender Equality considered this Report on Gender Equality for 2012-2014 in accordance with Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. A number of activities have been carried out in the reporting period and significant progress has been made in the process of achieving gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 55th session of the UN Committee on 19 July 2013, in Geneva, a delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina presented a fourth and fifth periodic report in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Committee saw significant progress as compared to the previous period. On 8 March 2013, Bosnia and Herzegovina became the 26th member state of the Council of Europe to sign the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence, so-called Istanbul Convention. It was ratified on 07.08.2013, making Bosnia and Herzegovina the sixth country, you have heard well, the sixth member state of the Council of Europe which has committed to raising legislative and other measures, in order to ensure a legal, institutional and organisational framework for the prevention of violence against women, the protection of victims of violence, and the punishment of perpetrators of violence. This Convention entered into force on 01.08.2014. In 18.04.2012, the Council of Ministers discussed and adopted the report on the implementation of the Gender Action Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2006-2011 and adopted the Gender Action Plan at the 62nd session, held on 03.09.2017. So there is a difference here, the Gender Plan was adopted for the medium-term programme, and we heard that the document of the Framework Budget was not adopted for the period 2015-2017. This document contains strategic and medium-term objectives, expected results and activities in the implementation of UN Resolution 1325 "Wifes, Peace and Security", adopted to achieve gender equality in the security and defence sectors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers at the 51st session, held on 28.05.2013, adopted the Annual narration Report on the implementation of the FIGA programme for the period 01.01-31.12.2012. The Annual Report on Gender Equality was adopted at the 49th meeting of the Council of Ministers, held on 08.05.2013. All reports have shown rapid progress in achieving gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and adopted strategic 38 documents provide the basis and guidelines for further work in introducing gender equality principles in different areas of life. Now I would also like to refer to the conclusions and recommendations of this report. In fact, we have seen that improving gender equality is in priority areas, preventing and combating gender-based violence, including domestic violence, as well as trafficking. In this segment, we have ten recommendations, since the establishment of effective institutional mechanisms to encourage women to report domestic violence, protect victims, provide continued education for prosecutors, judges, ensure rehabilitation of women of all forms of violence, strengthen the mechanisms aimed at identifying the early detection of the trafficking of victims. Public life and decision making have five recommendations. It is therefore important to mention here that the procedure for ensuring the effective application of Article 20. The law on gender equality, develop effective mechanisms for applying quotas and putting women in positions with the prospect of, of course, winning. Work and neglect and access to economic resources have six recommendations. Education, science and sport, so as not to list them all, has seven recommendations. Health, prevention and protection, social protection has six recommendations and so on. We in this report have stated, therefore, and the recommendations that are necessary for women to live in the fullest sense. Thank you. Here, that would be a brief report. I hope that this report will be adopted and that we will apply these recommendations of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5950	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5951	I thank the chairman. I fully agree with Mr Mirsada Đonlagić when the question when we adopt something is actually being adopted and what does it mean, in fact, is this House and this College, from the previous report, taking some recommendations and will it work on them? I think this report is being taken to the knowledge, closed, and no one ever does anything about it again. It does not take on the fact that the members of the Commission themselves do not view gender equality as important. And from the Agency's Report on Gender Equality in BiH, therefore at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when you read this comprehensive and comprehensive 56-page report, you will not encounter absolutely any information related to any priority areas and threats, i.e. discrimination and gender equality status in Brcko District. So, we're dealing with, here, the Gender Equality Agency analyzes the situation in entities, i.e. through the Gender Center, and in the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH sublimes the results, gives us a report without us having any information on the situation in Brcko District. In the report of this when any area is mentioned, here I am pulled out of context, says women from sample 47.2% experienced at least some kind of violence. I wonder what pattern that is? Because I don't understand, women at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I need to know if that pattern is from a rural, urban area, which is the socioeconomic state of that sample, so I don't even know what to do with this information. Analysis of the percentage of women in politics, the Gender Equality Agency in BiH when you open a website, I don't know which click to get some information. So you're not going to find information as current as it is, to start immediately from this highest legislative body, to violate the Law on Gender Equality and how we 39 in violation of the Law on Gender Equality suggest that others respect it. So I wonder who this someone outside of this institution will respect the Law on Gender Equality when we, within this House and Parliament, do not respect him, and this is seen in the results of the previous sessions where the chairman, not the chairman, is appointed, but chaired by certain committees and certain bodies within both houses of the BiH Parliament. I am also interested, and I am sorry that Mrs. Director is not here, whether BiH's Gender Equality Agency has spoken to the College of the House or the House of Representatives with one letter to indicate that we have violated this vote, or have reduced women's representatives the possibility of being treated the same as fellow MPs. In the section reporting on gender equality in the segment of education, there is, of course, no data on how many women there are in the management positions within education, and there is still a recommendation as in previous years that all teaching processes and materials should include gender sensitive teaching practices and all communication models should be adapted to gender sensitive topics. I also then..., because in the Report I do not see that the Gender Equality Agency is working with education ministries, with teaching institutions, which it has done on gender-sensitive topics in curricula and programmes and whether it is working together at all in the early school year, giving some recommendations to publishers for the use of native sensitive language and gender-sensitive topics. Of course there's no such information. Has the ADR, or the BiH Gender Equality Agency, ever collaborated with pedagogical institutions and, if I did, would be interested in the results of this cooperation within this content? Next, the issue of maternity care. Although this is a framework entity law, I cannot believe that in any sentence, the Gender Equality Agency, at least within its recommendations, has not recognised that Bosnia and Herzegovina is increasingly in the white plague every day, so this is the direct reason why women, citizens, members of constituent peoples no longer form a family, family, family, or stay on one child and what causes it. Of course, there is triple discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Discrimination on the level of maternity compensation, territorial discrimination, and working legal status, i.e. the question of the level of maternity benefit by type of contribution. _________(?) And kindergartens. Of course and provide extended stays, kindergartens and all that, and not to go any further. This is not available in the Report, nor in the recommendation that maternity mothers should not be and should no longer be treated by a social case in the new Council of Ministers and this Parliament and other parliaments. They should be contained in the recommendation to be absolutely singled out from the social fund and to find another option to pay, i.e. to allocate maternity benefits. That's not in this report. Next, when I open the page, I wanted to see a little FIGA program, so I'm interested in the board of directors. No record of who makes up the FIGA Management Board? You won't find that, there isn't any on the page, there isn't one in the report. I don't know, as a new representative, I'm absolutely interested in everything about the Commission on Gender Equality and the agencies we directly cooperate with. Was the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ever written or verbally informed by the Gender Equality Agency that we were violating, and we have violated all these years, Article 18. The law on gender equality, which states that all data and information must be shown by sex. So our 40 website should also contain both the sexual structure and the participation of women in certain functions, who is appointed, how, when, the results of the vote and everything else, by gender. Under its responsibilities, the BiH Gender Equality Agency, a member of the 26th same law, says, attitude and) – receives and processes applications, complaints and representations of persons and groups of persons indicating infringements of some of the rights under this law. In this Report of 56 pages, there is absolutely no record of how much, here, in this period from 2012 to 2014, women, citizens, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have addressed this position to the Gender Equality Agency and asked for help, nor has there been any results of how many citizens or citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been assisted in this law and what has been done under this law. So, I'm now wondering if the Gender Equality Agency is a politically-defined agency that doesn't want to get into any problems and some kind or parts of the law's provisions so that it doesn't conflict with a particular political party. I'm not prejudged. I'm just asking myself a question. It also states that the Gender Equality Agency lays down uniform rules for the receipt and processing of applications, complaints and presentations. It would be useful for me to at least find these unique rules on my website to see how they are formulated or at least to find one such rule in my report there as an attachment. The results of the survey on Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' readiness to implement obligations under the Law on Gender Equality in BiH are defeating the report itself. It is evident that a large percentage of respondents, therefore, are respondents employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, are absolutely not familiar with the Law on Gender Equality, while others do not know whether they are familiar or not. Each tenth person is considered a victim of gender discrimination at work within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while each sixth person is the victim of sexual harassment. After these devastating results, I believe that in the course of employment, as well as the appointment of certain functions in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Gender Equality Act should be found either as part of passing an expert examination on the Commission's lists or cards when examining employment, and as an addendum to the signing of the labour contract. Of course, I cite this all as a recommendation, starting with the assumption that the members of individual committees themselves are also familiar with the Law on Gender Equality. I, as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, will not support this, because you can find all of this on the Internet what Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the contracts have signed, has ratified you can find any NJO or NDO association to open, their website you will find this information. They are also more involved and advocated than someone who is funding from the Budget of BiH. I addressed some of these issues via the Commission for Gender Equality to the BiH Gender Equality Agency. I didn't get an answer until today. I wonder why, I don't know either. I'm sorry the director isn't here, but there's probably a round table where the same, same audience, few citizens and citizens are involved, and I'd like to point out that the BiH Gender Equality Agency is not only in Kulovic, it is also wider.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5953	Thank you very much. She's gone a minute over but I didn't want to interrupt, I see you've prepared yourself in detail, so I've allowed you to say until the end of what you have, but please respect the time. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5954	I thank the chairman. Just to look back at what Professor Đonlagić said, it really wasn't about these specific points of the agenda, it was about the fact that we have 9 points on the agenda, and I think it's really time, here it is finally formed by the Council of Ministers, that you start working a little bit more, that is, to give us a little bit more to do. We've been giving you a lot of suggestions. But here's the thing about this point, the replica of the esteemed colleague of Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. You said at the beginning we were breaking the Gender Equality Act, so you pointed to the names of the committee's manager, to just say to the chairman, you see here we are in fact violating the Guidelines on the use of natively sensitive language, not the Law on Gender Equality necessary, and this instruction was just on the SBB Club proposal adopted in this House last year, and in the House of People was adopted this year, I was a reporter. And it was adopted before all these committees were named. So, after the adoption, after it came into effect, I guess in the meantime, that breach continued. And the law, when it comes to breaking the law, please let me remind you, the law violates you, not us, because we voted against the Council of Ministers' calls that are completely contrary to Article 20. Gender equality laws. And Article 20. The law on gender equality makes it very clear that the state bodies at all levels of government organisation, including legislative, executive and judicial authorities, will ensure equality, or gender equality, and that equal representation exists when you have 40% at least, at least 40% less sex represented. So that's Article 20. The law says very clearly. And this club voted against such a Council of Ministers' call, which is totally contrary to Article 20. The law, and you, your club voted for this Council of Ministers meeting. So it's not right to say that we're breaking the law, at least then remind yourself that it's not about us, it's only about you. The High Representative is all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5955	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5956	on 9 December, he sent a letter reminding all MPs that the implementation of Article 20 is our obligation. We in this club understood very clearly, and so we voted. And mostly I've heard a lot of criticism from the Agency today, but what kind of message did you send them when you voted in favour of the Council of Ministers' completely illegal assembly when it comes to the Law on Gender Equality? You're sending a very bad message to the Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5957	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5958	I also referred to this question the last time I took advantage of the opportunity already at last session, the emergency session, when we appointed members of the Council of Ministers, where I said that 42 individuals, even your members of the SBB Club, support, or violate, or do not adhere to the Law on Gender Equality, where they are allowed, or where there is an opposition or political move. I want to point out that when someone calls someone, I told me and I didn't want to say by name who voted yes or against, I took us as the most legislative body. And supporting or not supporting something is a political issue especially of the Council of Ministers. I referred not to the native sensitive language because I really, I support that I should be a representative, a fellow representative, but this is not the top of the Bosnia and Herzegovina-level summit as regards the Law on Gender Equality. And we should not only boast that we have reached that in this House we have a natively sensitive language and that we are violating the rights and opportunities of MPs and MPs when possible for appointment in certain committees, joint, permanent, delegations, etc. So, when calling the Club of DF, you can freely open www.parliament.ba and see who voted for certain appointments for the Council of Ministers. Without anyone being offended by me when I was using myself, I was thinking about this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5959	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5960	Thank you. I didn't mean to pick up on this wheel, but a little Mr. Đonlagić offered me. So I'm when I'm from the angle. Central Bosnia, where I came from from Travnik, the New Travnik, I watched this Parliament work in some previous councils, I thought that when I somehow got lucky to come here to do something, but it doesn't seem like it's going to go so well because I expected that in this House and the House of Nations, therefore to the highest legislative body of this country, everything that needs to be said for the benefit of all those who want to live here and who, here are filled with the mouth of Bosnia and Herzegovina, co-existence, friendship and all that it means. But I'm a little bit, a little bit, so I'm meeting a folk proverb that says a good excuse of gold is worth it. So when we don't want to hear something here, when we don't want to do something, when we don't want to approach that problem, then we say, we have this good excuse and that good excuse that gold is worth our Rules of Procedure, then we say eh, we can't do it by the Rules of Procedure, but it can't, it can't do it then. So, even some of us should be experts here to know this Rules of Procedure so that something in this esteemed House can tell their colleagues what's holding them back and what they want to solve. So here and here, this Mr. Đonlagić is part of the management. So I'm going to remind you that in the reports that were on the agenda before 2-3 sessions, let's say I suggested two conclusions per two reports that are not being carried out. One conclusion was that at the end of each quarter, the agency for the surveillance of our country's sky reported what it was about taking over, so here's what we don't have is the quarter. So, I'm experiencing that the Rules of Procedure is not a distraction here, that we can propose conclusions based on this report, launch initiatives, but then implement them. Those recommendations, which are in the text of that report itself, and our conclusions and suggestions for these conclusions, are sufficient, but let the gentlemen do so. 43 So here in this sense I wanted to help, and so I say that somehow we try to be as flexible as possible, so here's what happens to this Rules of Procedure and those previous points that we've been saying, and don't let the Rules of Procedure be a good excuse for us not to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5961	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Mr. Isaković had a discussion he no longer had the right to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5962	Mr. Isaković asked for a replica, now he said, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5963	The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, she's got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5964	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I carefully read the Report of the Gender Equality Agency, and regardless of what he tried to do with the sectors of life, let's say we call it life, discuss the issue of gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I remain in favour of that claim I made at one of the previous sessions during a discussion on the appointment of delegations and regardless of the fact that I voted for the current Council of Ministers' meeting. I must say that I am firmly convinced, as a woman who has been in politics for some 12 or 14 years, that the longer there is the Gender Equality Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the less elected officials are growing, the more those who enter from the compensation lists, but elected officials, and those who deal with politics continuously, the less. Why? Because I would not say that the primitive patriarchal environment is a predetermining factor why Bosnia and Herzegovina does not vote for women within parliaments. Personally, I think that the Agency, which is in charge of, and who is calling and giving itself the right to say that it will work on promoting as many representations as possible, organises very expensive, very expensive sessions for me, in which I have never agreed to participate, in the course of election campaigns when we need to address our electoral body. At the same time, therefore, in those 30 days of campaign where we are all under pressure to expose our electoral programmes in the best possible way, the Gender Equality Agency organises expensive sessions that last two or three days at various hotels, starting with Ilidža, Jahorina, etc., for women candidates on lists, imagine those who need to address their electoral body, pay travel expenses, expensive lunches, nights and spend state money. It is the money of the budget users of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, at the very least, it sounds hypocritically one of the recommendations in which it is said, the first recommendation to adopt concrete measures to increase women's participation, imagine, in making decisions at all levels. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think they've done much. This is where the data is mentioned, probably from the previous call of the Parliamentary Assembly, which says that in the six joint committees there are 3 presidencies, I assume this refers to the report, the former Council of Ministers' meeting. So, by today’s day, a quick correction could be made, not a year - to - year report. It says here in one of the recommendations that it is necessary to set up a Steering Committee for Co-ordination and Monitoring 44 implementation of the Gender Action Plan of BiH, and in brackets, made by the director of the Gender Equality Agency Gender of the Republika Srpska and Gender Centre of the Federation of BiH. They introduce themselves to the board of directors. And I'm asking them now from this place, not knowing until the day of today that they're being asked by the esteemed representative Gasal, how high their personal income is, and they're pretty much in the continuity of this agency, I don't know if they're untouchable, because I really don't have an excessively good communication with them, I don't have any contact with them, but I'm wondering if that's going to be their membership in the Steering Committee for Coordination and Monitoring, which they've been writing to themselves, will they have paid a job for that Management Board since they're going to be doing it at work? No matter what Bosnia and Herzegovina is the signatories of all conventions, international conventions, and whatever we had great representatives, let's say in the last term I must point out the very significant engagement of Mrs Ismeta Dervoz within the Commission on Gender Equality in the Council of Europe and very significant results, lobbying results in raising Bosnia and Herzegovina's ratings in terms of achieving gender equality rights and many other colleagues whose names today will not be mentioned here, it still seems to me that it is pointless that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in agreement with what the colleagues have said, is receiving some report, because we do not have a mechanism for changing the monitoring and adoption of concrete conclusions. We don't have a simple reason because we here ourselves have no consensus when it comes to women's rights. What scares me especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a huge discrimination against women in terms of their employment, especially the employment of persons with disabilities. I highly appreciate the efforts made by the Federal Employment Service in terms of employment of persons with disabilities, and as one of the proposings, i.e. as a proposing of the Employment and Intermediation Act for Persons with Disabilities in the Federation of BiH, esteeming only their efforts and not appreciating the efforts of the Gender Equality Agency, I continue to argue that in Bosnia and Herzegovina women with disabilities are also children, so the entire population of people with disabilities is highly damaged, marginalised and do not have equal conditions in competitions regardless of the possibility of performing jobs they are competing for. On this side, I am truly saddening that there is no movement in Bosnia and Herzegovina on this. It is a very worrying fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina women over the age of 15 are only 32.5% of the active labour force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for example there are about 52% of women. I disagree with the fact, and I'm not sure that this is the correct data, because I read differently, that women are a less educated population within Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not accurate information, and I think that should be used here in this report. What I'm particularly concerned about, what I've been talking about for years, which is unequal maternity protection in the country and the lack of mechanisms to reconcile professional and family life that discourage women from actively seeking work. So who's supposed to do it? Gender Equality Agency. Why didn't they do it? Why are they not specifically involved in the fact that birthrights in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have equal rights, for example in the Federation of BiH, you have 10 different rights in 10 cantons. That was their mission. Then, it is a worrying fact in the health care segment that women with disabilities, as well as all other people with disabilities, and especially women, do not have adequate health care, that they are even in social isolation. The agency's saying that, but I don't see it doing anything on, as I would say, to improve that problem. In terms of raising awareness in a segment of sexual and reproductive health in a country where a number of our fellow citizens and our family members, our mothers, our sisters dying of uterus cancer and 45 breast cancers, as a doctor, I do not think that this report that is related to the health segment has been done correctly, I do not think that the Agency has done anything at all to raise awareness about the sexual and reproductive health of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I appreciate more what the Parliamentary Commission that exists in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and various NGOs such as X-Psyslon and of course... And I'm the activity of the agency in the segment of the protection of sexual and reproductive health, noting that it's about the lives of our mothers and sisters, I don't remember the Agency's engagement in that segment. As the first person in Bosnia and Herzegovina to propose that women victims of war rape receive the status of a civilian victim of war, which has been adopted in the Federation Parliament one year ago, I consider it rather hypocritical to say that in recommendations an amendment of criminal laws should be initiated, including the definition of sexual violence during the war in accordance with international standards. So what's been going on for the last 10 years? Is it possible that in 10 years we couldn't do it? And why no criminal laws have been amended at all and why the Agency has not pressed the Ministry of Justice to make amendments to a chapter of the Criminal Code called crimes against gender freedom and morality and crimes against life and the body. Therefore, I ask that, on a question brought by the distinguished representative, Gasal, asked the Gender Equality Agency, which deals with the request of the Commission's representatives for gender equality interested in names, internships, qualifications of all gender equality staff, their level of education, the number of years they are employed, please give us concrete results of their work. And I, as a person who has really long pointed to this problem today, will not be able to support this report for a simple reason because they have not provided us as members of the Gender Equality Commission with very important answers to very important questions, and the recommendations are very general and therefore I cannot support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5965	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5966	I thank the chairman. So here we have to have one fact in mind, so this is the 2012 and 2014 report. The above mentioned data by the distinguished representative Kapetanović are therefore from that period and as are the members of the Commission from that period. What was still being talked about here is some of the questions that are being asked, they are all contained in the recommendations. So here recommendations are a very important thing, that's why we put an accent on them. What I want to point out here is that the SBB, mentioned that we voted..., we all voted against. It's on one side. On the other hand, this dom did not, therefore, violate the Law on Gender Equality, Article 20, we warned. As President of the Commission, I immediately sent a letter to all parliamentary parties to the Commission, as it was not known about the coalition, to all parliamentary parties to take care of Article 20, about representation, about gender equality. So the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers immediately received the same letter the next day. Of course, given the high representative's letter and the letter that warned us about all this which you are now making an observation, especially the people of the position, or representatives of the position, we have warned it. This Commission, even members of this 46 Commission who are now criticising, has warned of such things. And as opposition, so we have made it clear, publicly, that it is against the law and that as the highest legislative authority, we are violating the Law on Gender Equality. So that would be my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5967	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5968	Dear colleagues from Parliament, when I listen to you, you are absolutely right, both of you. But the biggest culprit for the overall position of women is a woman. Yes, yes, a woman. The voting body of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina is above the voting body of those called the stronger sex. And those who should support a woman at the very least are women. And we have a situation where at all levels, from choosing advice in local communities to the state parliament, women at least vote for women. That's the biggest problem. And let us do something else, that we may take a step to make that consciousness so that women may gain the status which they deserve, as I tremble before mine, and that all others tremble before their own. Yeah, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5969	Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović has her word. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This could somehow be a correction to the wrong assumption. The SDA was most of last term's opposition, through the will of other political parties. On the other hand, the truth is, and there are people here who have no short memory, that I have called here, and in one of the previous discussions as well as today, both the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. And that day I didn't vote, so I was restrained despite... in the opinion of my environment. I was very, very principled on behalf of those women who come into politics, not only on behalf of us who have been in politics, on behalf of the new colleagues who have come, but I have said that... a woman in BH politics yes, on active participation in politics. There is some truth, Mr. Backović, I agree that women do not vote for women, but we should perhaps ask political parties why this is so and does not lie primarily in populus, but perhaps in promoting female candidates by political parties, all and one political party. We have good examples here in the Parliamentary Assembly that there are still political parties in which women are participated, but I agree that women do not vote for women and I think you are there, Mr Backović, quite right. I'm aware this is last year's report, Mr. Isaković, but I think the recommendations are general and that's why I can't support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5971	Thank you very much. 47 Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5972	So there is no dilemma that this is an important topic, and it would probably be better if we had the opportunity to discuss one year's reports, and not only, here as is the case today about the two-year report, because this process of fighting for gender equality is something that is a lasting struggle, it is not since yesterday that lasts for at least a century and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I got up to tell my colleague, Backović, that for the inadequate position of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm afraid it's still not true that women are guilty. It seems to me that even today 70 years later, it could be applied and today is the current conclusion of the AFZ, the anti-fascist front of women, who voted without emancipation of men without emancipation of women.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5973	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5974	Thank you. Nermina, I simply can't speak from this pay phone you, I hope you understand me and I will address you, without being angry, without not..., too, too long we've known each other. I hope this when you're talking about political parties and promotions doesn't apply to your political money, because in this order where you're sitting, you're all alone. And then you have a situation in the Federal Parliament so count the number of women within the club that makes up your political party. Maybe there's the brightest example in this House and that House and the DF, regardless of what we can do now, we can't jump, but they've fulfilled that quota. Mr. Lovrinović is wrong, the esteemed lady on your left does not belong to your political option. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The club is something else, I told the political option. Therefore, I hope that you will make it, as great as you plead, although there are no large ones because we all consider ourselves large political parties, to be promoted, not only by women in the biological sense, but by women as being who creates it and giving it undividedly more than we do, I am talking about a stronger sex. I can elaborate it here for as long as you want, there's no need. Also, Mr. Denise, I agree with you, the emancipation of a man, but we have a problem, a problem, we can't have a baby, and in that order, women are ahead of us, women are ahead of everything, so let's give them a chance. It showed where the women were leading that it didn't fall apart, where we were leading it to be a helach. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5976	Thank you very much. Please let us take the debate slowly on this agenda point to the end. May I have your attention, if you want a break, I mean no problem, you just can't talk like that, please. The replica of Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5977	Just in order to make it more clear to the public, everything the SBB now claims that it did not support because it was violated, some provision of the Law on Gender Equality, not because it was used, but was used to absolutely refer to that Law, because all of us as a position, or as representatives and advocates, offered to have a woman, in some commission, unfortunately, in their club, not one woman, that we gave it to their club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5978	Thank you very much. And finally there's a word, a discussion Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, there's been a lot of criticism here about the Agency. It is the easiest responsibility to transfer to the Agency, but I am interested in what is political responsibility here. Here we heard from an esteemed colleague that voting for the Council of Ministers is a political act, so that's some excuse, is this, would you vote if there were no representatives from any of the constituent peoples. It is also a legal obligation for members of the less-represented sex and for representatives of the constituent peoples, I will not ask for others because I know you would vote, you voted for the Council of Ministers who have no others. This, but this is also a legal obligation such as the representation of members of the less-represented sex legal obligation. You have six joint committees, which this House voted, not once chaired by women, you have nine delegations – only two presidencies of women. And who suggested these compositions, or who arranged them? Well, among other things, the DF Club, uh, in any case, position. We didn't even support those proposals at the Expansive College, we didn't support them at the House and they would never support them. And I really think about calling the Club of the SBB, or that because we saw it as if we were, is, like, an excuse, or a question that we can then problem. Well, look, I mean, that's the kind of situation we'd never allow. I have just reminded that our Club was the initiator of the instructions on the use of natively sensitive language, I was a reporter outside the House of the Peoples' House, it is still not respected, and it is not respected because it does not respect the position. So it's really not right to talk about the legal obligation as a political act, it's really not right to transfer responsibility to one agency and send them a political message that it's okay to choose from the Council of Ministers two women of 20 members. And just one more thing, not women who are responsible for the inequality that exists in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, are responsible for those who vote for two women of 20 members of the Council of Ministers, are those who vote for two women in the leadership of 15, a total of 15 49 delegations and joint commissions, and at least those who vote against such proposals, which are proposed by those clubs who are also responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5980	Mr. Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5981	Well, I'll do it very briefly. I apologize for not saying anything particularly significant in this kind of discussion, but I have to react when it comes to fellow Arnaut and others from the SBB who here, among other things, are criticising the obligation to respect the law in which in the legislative and executive body there should be enough women. First of all, you have fewer rights since you are one of the few many, as said by your colleague Maja, the MPs you have in the party have no wife. First, in order for me to appreciate what you're saying, make sure there's more women in your club, so I'll respect everything you say. So here I am very happy that we have one woman, and of course that's not enough, but you who talk about it and comment, which is not without a basis, but first of all it comes from the legislative body and the political parties that make up the legislative body. The only thing you can do from your political party is provide more women at your club. When you do, then I'll believe you're really in favour of gender equality. Until then, I don't trust you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5982	Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5983	I thank the chairman. So the legal obligation is very clear. Unfortunately, it cannot affect who the citizens will be, therefore, when it comes to legislative authority, but in the Federal Parliament, we have far the highest representation in this club. Unfortunately, we can't influence that. However, when it comes to believing or disbelieving, so wait, here when it comes to executive power you have absolute influence, you can fully influence it and you have not influenced your votes, first with your proposals and your votes to have more than two women of 20 numbering the Council of Ministers with deputies. Therefore, you cannot put into the same basket the will of citizens expressed on ballots and wills here, not only when it comes to voting when it comes to proposing, so these are completely two separate things. But here, when it comes to absolute criticism, don't stop. In the last term, I'm proud of it, we had a woman, unfortunately we don't, but when it comes to the federal club, we're absolutely the first when it comes to representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5984	Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5985	I thank the chairman. Just to correct an esteemed colleague, it is possible to provide a higher percentage of women here and through compensation, let the parties show the threshold of tolerance, and not put the woman in another 50 places because they have to, and someone, whether you or your colleagues, get a compensatory mandate. Put a beautiful woman in the compensation position number one, here I was in my party at the compensation place number one. I passed directly, though, so the mandate went further, but then the colleague can and only then should you give up your position.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5986	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5987	Just for a little while. When the debaters point out on this issue, it's obvious that we have a problem with inequality, and I don't think that we should talk about it and that it really doesn't matter who's at the head of any body whether a man or woman is human. Here, I would like to make a more modest contribution to today's discussion, I was elected yesterday as the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Mediterranean Parliament together with my colleague Mensura Beganović, and here I am giving up my post right now as Mensuri Beganović to boost gender equality in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5988	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5989	Now, I wouldn't want to be like some of my colleagues who've replicated anyone who's been involved in this discussion, but I want to say that this... has shown that there really is a need for these reports to be discussed in detail and to adopt some conclusions. As to whether anyone believes anyone, you know I absolutely don't care if my colleagues and colleagues in the SDS trust the SBB, we get trust as well as another political option in the Federation by the number of MPs, we're trusted by voters, and that's what's most important, and I don't care if my colleagues or colleagues who said they don't believe us, because they told me that doesn't interest me at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5990	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate, but before that I will inform you, since this is an important topic and I don't think that we have treated this issue properly, it has been too much of an interrelationship, I ask you to turn it off, I think it is something that is not like this Parliament, and to focus on the subject, here is the representative of the Gender Equality Agency, who has spoken here to the secretary, Mrs Branislava Crnčević, who wants to address this House, since many sentences and words have been spoken to the Agency's account. And I'm asking you very briefly for a pay phone, and then we'll go to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5991	Good afternoon. My name and last name you heard, I welcome you on behalf of the Director of the Gender Equality Agency of BiH. A regional conference has already been agreed before, at which 51 representatives of Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, and the director was prevented, we thought there would be no problems, as it has not been so far, related to the report. And I'm here, and I welcome you to her name. Today, former Ambassador Svoni Hant is present, and she holds about one workshop in which we need to learn more about how to implement UN Resolution 1325 – "women, peace and security". She comes from the Washington Institute with whom we were guests to learn how to make a new action plan and how to implement it. I'm sorry, I'm very excited, because a lot of bad words have been said about the Agency. The Board of Directors shall consist of three directors who do not take any money to work on it. The Supervisory Board is also made up of the minister, the human rights minister, finance ministers from the entity. There's no report we can do without the Jender Center. Entity jurisdiction is violence, health, social protection, education, speed responses. We've been working with education agencies, I don't think I'm talking any further, we've been doing health care education, preschool education, but we've got to do everything through the entities, and that's what the Jender Centers do to us. They're delivering their reports, we're compiling those reports, we're seeing what happened at the state level, we're delivering them to you. It's a big report, but that's why we did the introduction where the summary is and at the end of the recommendation where you can see what we're planning to do next. You say, "Single Rules." On our page there is a law, there are unique rules, there is a way of harmonising all the laws, all the documents with the Law on Gender Equality. On page 45, there are many cases processed according to the Unique Rules. Most of the time, they do it on the entity level, or they do the Jender Centers, and they happen at the state level to give answers. Therefore, there are answers to every question that you want me to answer, and I apologize to Mrs. Vražalica for not being able to do so today, I'm doing this subject, to provide answers to her questions, although I am doing them, but because of the many obligations, here with Mr. Novaković I was at the CCI, we are going and working with our NGOs. 120 projects have been done with NGOs and institutions. It's so much work that we might be late sometimes. I'm sorry, there's a lot more to that answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5992	Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Information from the Central Bank of BiH on the problems of credit users agreed with the Swiss francs' indexing clause (CHF) and the measures taken to address these problems (realising Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 26.02.2015) This information was delivered for the implementation of the initiative of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 7th session of the House, held on 26 February 2015. On 7 April 2015, the Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted its opinion on the initiative. The Commission took the information into account. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković was looking for a replica. 52 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5995	I have a problem, but I can't technically, so it's not working.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5996	Wait a minute, the service please, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević requests a word for discussion, allow MPs to speak in their place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5997	He can talk...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5998	So, you can, you got the word Mrs. Pandurević, you can speak the microphone running, you can't report there's some mistake they'll fix it in the meantime, and you're welcome to have a discussion. When you want to report for the replicas and the rest just point your hand and you'll get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u5999	I don't know if the Honorable Governor wanted to speak first or maybe eventually. If you'd been the first one I think I would, maybe it would simplify us...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6000	So here is the governor of the Central Bank Mr. Kemal Kozarić, I welcome him, and if you agree, I would give him my word after they made up the Information, and then Mrs. Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6001	I am truly pleased and honored to be in this high house today and to have the opportunity to say something about this problem that deals with a significant number of our citizens. Although the Central Bank of BiH is not directly authorised for this issue, because in our mandate is the main and primary objective of monetary stability and financial stability, we are not in charge of monitoring commercial banks and we are acting under the Central Bank Act only co-ordination between banking agencies. And I have to be honest, so neither the banking agencies are directly in charge here because it's mostly a contractual relationship between clients and banks. So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you have seen from the information, there are about 6,216 users of these loans, which is 0.86% of the total debt of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you also saw that of those 6,216 of them 53,534 have loans of more than 150,000 KM and 328 do not serve their obligations. It also means that of these 6,216 users of them 1,723 do not serve their obligations and they are in the so-called ... or non-quality loans, which in turn amount to 14% at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here we have to be careful that the relationship between the client and the bank and the bank was due, it's undeniable, to warn each individual client of the currency risk and she claims to have done so. And it is also undeniable to include the currency clause that it had to have sources in foreign currency so it could include in the currency clause contract. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević asked me yesterday at the Commission – has there been any conversion through the Central Bank? I replied that it wasn't, and here I repeat again that it wasn't done through the Central Bank of BiH, and it didn't have to because banks have the right to have accounts abroad and they could make that conversion out there, and they could bring funds into the equivalent of domestic currency. So, the loans were given in domestic currency, the users had to, I say, be familiar with contract clauses and we still consider that the solution to the relationship of the bank's client, because the bank is not in the interest of either reputation or otherwise that customers do not serve their obligations. We, as the Central Bank, are chaired by the Financial Stability Committee which consists of three finance ministers, meaning at the state level, entity levels, two banking agencies and the Deposit Insurance Agency, and we tried as a mediator to get involved, to help these citizens, because the fact is that by changing the Swiss franc course by the Central Bank of Switzerland that they came into an invisible position, but it was also the fact that for the first two years it was a very attractive product and that the wars were much less than the euro loans. Also, just by the way, if in Bosnia and Herzegovina were somewhere 70% of credit is indexed in euro because the euro is our anchor currency, so some who sometimes publicly call for the devaluation of domestic currency would certainly create a similar problem for those who today have loans in the euro. So here I believe it's a good intention and this Dom wants to send a certain message to both the bank and the clients to find a medium solution. The bank, however, offered some solutions that customers still do not accept, and I think it is on the path of a solution on that route, to implement some medium solution that would be acceptable for the parties here. Otherwise, the courts are already working on this issue and I think unfortunately they will have to give a final assessment, because apparently the competent institutions can't arbitration in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6002	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6003	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the esteemed governor for providing us with and delivering the information and for being here today, as he was on the Finance and Budget Commission yesterday. All the observations set out in this Information on the role and responsibilities of the Central Bank are correct and that they have a limited range of their activities. Also, this information has provided, therefore, a state-of-the-art cut to 31.12.2014 and what shows us is that banking agencies haven't really done their job. Why do I say that? In fact, from this information we see that a large number of these loans in Swiss are so-called. non-quality loans and therefore the place, namely Hypo Bank itself, and the one in Republika Srpska and the Federation, violated the Law on Banks and Sublaws on Risk Management, and there was a place for the banking agencies to react which was not 54. I wouldn't be convincing now what's written here, he also mentioned the esteemed governor that Hypo Bank offers credit reprogrammes, under allegedly facilitated conditions, but provided the client gives up the charges, which is absolutely against the law, right? Furthermore, apart from our neglect by the competent credits of these, by the supervisory authorities of this problem, because we have, we are free to say that our banking agencies have reacted, we have a small, we are fortunate to have a small problem, that this is a small percentage of the credit. But as Mr. Kozarić said, for example, that loans are proportional to the number of those in the euro would have huge, would destroy the country's financial stability. And it's no excuse how much of a problem it is that there is no response, or no response can be covered by the fact that these are small problems, relatively small numbers of users. What we think at the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party is that we need to break the practice of these gambling loans, which, under the circumstances, are offered to citizens, so what happened happens to us and therefore we propose one conclusion by which: – We require the Council of Ministers to prepare amendments and supplement of the Consumers Act of BiH and to ban the indexing of credit in foreign currencies except in euro. And I would pray to other colleagues, so that these situations would not continue to happen to us, that people who unfortunately, the average citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are not even informed and do not know what can happen to them, in order to prevent new situations and new consequences from supporting this conclusion and that the Council of Ministers is preparing a law for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6004	Thank you very much. You're going to deliver the proposal in writing anyway, right? The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6005	Thank you, Chairman. We got all the e-mails, not just from the association, but, at least I did, one number of e-mails from individuals who have this problem. Not getting into how he got, how much responsibility these people were, on the human side, looking, here's the last e-mail I got were people who raised 40,000 in 2007 and yesterday when they were sending e-mails is 40,000 marks, yesterday when they sent an e-mail, they checked how many more they were going to return, they're going to return 39,200. So, and now let me not read you all the content of the situation, how much war has grown, what it means for the family, not to comment on the story of the tragic fates of the people that are possible and caused by this problem. Statistically speaking, the percentage of total responsibilities, which the governor also spoke of, and which are due in this situation, is not high. Man, that's a huge number. And I think that by having a discussion on this subject, we should consider this more human than statisticalally. At one of the first sessions, I asked a parliamentary question that was raised at the time – Are there tools and mechanisms in the current legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the mandate of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that can be controlled by foreign banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly regarding the problem of loans in Swiss francs? I got the answer, I think 55 you all got it, that the entire legislative and regulatory framework for the financial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, laws, etc., is in the jurisdiction of entity institutions, that this area is regulated by entity laws, etc. One part of the answer that is interesting and I haven't found, at least not in detail, in the Central Bank's Information – that the Central Bank has a mechanism, that is, the only mechanism that the Central Bank can influence the creation of commercial banking policies. The determination of the minimum reserve rate, the determination of the minimum reserve rate, i.e. its increase, reduction or differentiation by types of deposits, affects the total amount of deposits held by commercial banks, i.e. by, excuse, which directly depends on the credit activity of banks, and thus direct determination of interest rates on commercial banks' payments. This is the Ministry of Finance's response. I understand that the Governor or the Central Bank has given this information signed by the governor in such a way that the information contained in it is correct and that is not slow at all. However, all we can read from this information is that in two places a significant space is dedicated to saying that the Central Bank does not have a tool that can affect directly, that it cannot take any concrete measures and that it is an optimal solution that each individual solves its case, whether negotiations with banks or via courts. When it comes to negotiations with banks, our citizens are not in an equal position. I know, so I have information that there are a number of people who have solved their problem, who have reduced interest rates, who have even received a refund, but they're probably people who have a certain impact, given social or any other, so they did it. The lady who sent me an e-mail works for a salary of about 600 marks and she has no social influence, no power to solve her problem, but I think it's the most. We are all here taking over the mandate swearing to protect and defend ourselves for human rights, fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I understand the jurisdiction, but my question, as I believe and the initiative of colleague Pandurević, are on the trail of what we have sworn... to try to help in advance understanding what is, what is the ingenuity of any institution. Now, there's something out of the story of ingenuity, which is the political and public influence of people in positions. You have examples from the countries of the environment, here in particular in Croatia, where people in responsible positions, in particular the prime minister, were much louder in public criticism of foreign banks' policy which even sent them, in a way, very clear messages, not to say and threatening, about how the state will treat them as a whole and we have witnessed that some of these activities, not entering the method, have produced fruit. We are usually concerned about any subject when we are dealing with how something cannot be done and how someone is not in charge. But let's try to answer the question – what can and who is in charge and who can coordinate it? Does anyone in the Council of Ministers have a ban on not being able to deal with this issue in any place, that they can't collect all the responsible people in the country and say – let's see if we can help these people? Is it written somewhere that it can't be done? It doesn't say, but nobody does. And what we're doing here today is a little attempt to appeal to the conscience of people who can do it, who can coordinate between themselves. And to be perfectly honest with you, it doesn't matter if it's going to be done by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether it's going to be done by the finance minister, whether it's going to be done by the governor of the Central Bank, but I think the problem can be solved if it's wanted. The other thing is that the lobbyes of foreign banks here are extremely strong, the other thing is that people in positions within government institutions are very likely to have connections with these banks, but I think public political pressure is one of the tools that no one has tried beyond what can be done under the law, and that is what we are told in these answers, though it is on the entity level. So I really urge us to approach this problem less technologically, less statistically, more human and to do as much as we can to make some kind of analysis and 56 concrete activities as anyone can do, because 6 thousand and change credits are not just 6 thousand people more tied up, if the family has four members, so count how many people it is, and very often we can count on a larger number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6006	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like to be here, I can't say I'm commended because really the subject is very, as I would say, one difficult human destiny is at stake. It's about 9,500 people, as far as I know, 9,500 loans in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is what I am trying to remember, the debate in the Federal Parliament, because thanks to the activities of the SBB Club, the issue has come to the agenda of the Federal Parliament, and we have called on these discussions also representatives of the Association of Banks, as well as representatives of the Agency. I have to say that this is really an entirely unusual situation, to me a completely incomprehensible situation, a cold-blooded situation where only profit and profit are seen, and no human destiny is seen. You know, at the same time, there was a debate about the jury. Well, that's just amazing, this material that we've been getting about credit users in Swiss, it's not any of what we've had the chance to see and hear. These things can be witnessed by colleagues and colleagues present in the Federal Parliament when these things were discussed. So, at that moment, we absolutely failed, and not even that political pressure and ambience that created the media pressure that was created. I agree with my colleague, Saša, who says that this banking lobby is so simple that they almost feel untouchable in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we have failed to do anything, regardless of what neighbouring countries are, Croatia first of all, and Serbia that said that it is not a matter of the state, still solved some things and moved them from the dead spot and allowed people to live, and that in a certain way these loans are returning. Because I'm taking that, this very term to stay alive, because there are many examples of suicides of those who couldn't carry out the obligations that were imposed on them in this way. I would also say that I can agree with the activities and with the proposal of my colleague Pandurević, who is in this way, regardless of what is here, I do not believe that there is a direct possibility that from this level it will act on the banking system, although this is how one clear political message is sent, that in this country it is high time that these people have to be helped, because this is interest. No matter who the directors of the banks are, especially if I don't appoint any of that bank or the director, it's known who it is, in public opinion on television, who's to blame for signing such contracts, they signed it with the belief that they wanted to go as cheaply as possible. Well, the bank was offering its product in such a way that you had to get the impression that it was more favourable for you and you made up your mind. Thank Bog I was in those moments when I took the loan, too, it was an offer for me to take it in Swiss, I didn't do it. I was back then, and I don't know why, I don't know why, I don't know, something was suspicious to me, and not to elaborate now, I didn't accept it. But that doesn't mean that these people should leave now and tell them – yes, you did, you had the chance, it was a contract, the agreement of the two sides and you were greedy at that point, you rushed to take it because it was a favourable loan. I also think that we need to come forward and make 57 so that we can put political pressure on all those structures that can, in this case, intervene and help. And so, here I will also point out once again that we as the Club of the SBB will also support this proposal of this conclusion by colleague Pandurević, regardless of what she does not trust us.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6008	Now I'll take the word. My koleginica and colleagues, first of all, thank the Central Bank and the Governor who came here, although it is clear that there are no large powers of the Central Bank, but the obligation has been met, the request of Parliament. We got the information, at least now we know where the problem is. What I considered important, when it comes to this initiative, is that this injustice is finally beginning to be talked about here in this House. And it will not end only here in this House, it must be touched by entity parliaments. So there's no dilemma. What we have today is injustice. We are the ones who make laws that we prescribe rules, and it is obvious that we have one huge difference between the norms that we prescribe and the realities. We will never pass a law here that could lead citizens of our country and theoretically bring them into this situation, and they are in such a situation. It is inadmissible, therefore, and by the Law on Liabilities and by all rules that a man who raises a loan later, beside interest, returns, so by interest, he returns twice as large or I don't know how many times the credit and thus enters debt slavery. We have to react. And today, I see today's debate as, above all, the need to send a message from here that what is done is a grave injustice and that we will not suffer this injustice. I don't know what the measures we need to take right now, that's what people who are experts should say. It is true that individual lawsuits of this matter are resolved, exist in the Law on the Obligation Relations of the Institute, that people who do so know, who talk about subsequently changed circumstances, about excessive damages, so various clauses in the conclusion of the contract, but that is not enough. It takes a country's action of all levels here, so this practice doesn't happen in the future. Ask any man who enters, who entered the arrangement for such a loan, if he knew what hit him would happen. And the circumstances under which the contract is concluded must be known to whoever concludes the contract. So, I think this is a good thing that we opened this topic today. Mrs. Pandurević has offered one conclusion that could concern this level of government, so the Council of Ministers. I think it's a good conclusion, that it should be supported. I think he may be missing another sentence, to talk about other measures, but at the end of the sentence, it is stated that he is seeking an amendment to this law, and, if other laws are necessary, to achieve this goal. That's it, thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, and let Mr. Đorđo Krčmar be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6009	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are here now discussing the problem of post-festum and something that we cannot address with this kind of legislation in this consolidation of relations. We have a worse situation now that we don't discuss at all. The growth of dollars, the decline in the value of the euro, the increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt levels in conversion marks. We don't talk about it at all, we don't think of 58 at all, because we're tied to the dollar loans of this country. We won't realize that the currency ratio is just a commodity, a slave on a scale. Apples today cost a brand, tomorrow a brand and 20. These are currencies in a mutual relationship. There's something completely different here, and the problem is quite different. That problem Mr. Kozarić knows well. I, Kozarić, will apologize, not to professional terminology, but to simulate it, because sometimes one of the public will ask to hear what we're saying here, to simplify the way we express it. We have a system where we don't have a single banking system at the state level and we don't have a state-level law that defines the way banks operate. On the other hand, we are obliged as a state to apply the Banking Business Convention, which is called the Basel Convention and we are signatories of the Basel Convention. Does anyone know what the Basel Convention is? He doesn't know. I tried to get information and got to the next one. At the client's request, if he signs it, he can tie himself to the bank for any currency at the client's request. And that same bank, which we say is a foreign bank, it's a domestic bank, with... a capital that came from somewhere to be founded, but it's our bank, what it's called, it's a domestic bank, it's not a bank there, in the home state it's prescribed that it can't give and condition a credit or offer it to be tied to another currency, it can't. Eur, for the euro. We, if legally at the level of the state, make it impossible for internal business to account except in KM and as an equivalent of the euro, then neither banks can do it. So, we have to make the law at the state level, the law. Because you have a situation where we have more banks in this small space than any country in the environment. Why? Because banks act as autonomous entities in two entities, completely autonomous entities, which is inappropriate. And then when we're playing with data, we're only playing with data through the Central Bank, which is not true, for the citizens, it's not true, Mr. Kozarić. You say the level of savings is billions and it's true. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't matter. A billion, eight billion, but that level of savings is so divided by a ruler. Well, then there's all these banks out there, in banks this big, and banks call each other the same thing. His name is Raiffeisen Bank, his name is Raiffeisen Bank, his name is Hypo Bank, his name is Hypo Bank. All the same, one owner. Two legal entities in one space do business and then you had absurdities to open businesses, let's just say the Bobar Bank had a branch office there at Konzum's first big market, near Mercator, a representativeship, I don't know what anymore, because it didn't start in the Federation. Because in order to form it, it has to have a basic capital that is prescribed by law of the size of the founding capital. We must, if we want to, avoid what is called, because the bank is working for profit, it does not work for our interest, it works to make profit, point, we must pass a regulation according to what we signed as a state, and we have signed that we will apply the Basel Convention on Banking Business, adopt a law that we will regulate, no one is saying that someone will take charge of entities, but that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina must work exclusively in the domestic currency. Interestingly, these banks, which are called foreign banks, and yet I note, are domestic banks, because their capital is expressed in KM, is not expressed in dollars in Swiss, I don't know what, but is expressed in KM, only in these countries that own one of the currencies that are not called the euro have done what's called binding to another currency. In Croatia, this happened before Croatia joined the EU... duties in Switzerland, as people call it. It's gone today. But we are not going to take those steps that are the obligations of this 59-nation state, that is, the obligation of the Council of Ministers, or the obligation of the Ministry of Finance, to do what has been signed and applied in this country. We only have one means of payment, and that, as far as I know, is a conversion mark. And just now, the lady said she's not receiving any dinars, I don't know that the dinar is a means of payment, but that it's exclusively a converting brand. And I'm telling you once again, we have to pass a law according to what we signed, according to the principles of banking business, at the level of the state that will limit the ability to work with something called non-optic currencies that are not manipulated in domestic payment. Now, what I've set up as a dilemma, are we going to open the discussion, how and how to sue what dollar is growing and the country is getting more and more in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6011	Thank you very much. Mr. Đorđo Krčmar has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6012	Thank you Chairman, fellow MPs. So here, from this material that we got when it comes to this matter, it's visible that it's a Hypo Bank, a bank that's been connected to a lot of affairs. So if you've seen both Austria and Croatia, here's unfortunately our citizens have problems with this bank. Next, why is this the problem of these 8,000 savings? And the problem is, not only in the return of loans and interest increased, and it wouldn't be a problem that, as the courts are likely to decide on this, to stop and to give the courts their measuring opinion, but the problem is that the banks provided themselves with mortgages, where they can charge to go directly into the execution process, means after three wars, usually as they say. And the problem is, when you take out a loan, then the banks mortgage you three times the value of more property than the one you took. So the problem again is that in the executive procedure of the third bidding, all your assets go into a third, so if the value of your assets is a million marks, it can come to it, it can be provided, and that all of them, it goes down to a third of the value. That's why people are in trouble. And this is a question that should have come before this Parliament, regardless of what is said here finely to be a contractual relationship, means between a client and a bank. And this is what Mr. Džaferović said finely, that here when the courts decide, and probably will. I'll just tell you, '90s. I received over 30 disputes a year and Mr. Džaferović, I think he's in the judiciary for a long time, remembers that at that time the banks were raising interest on their own, so instead of 7.5% raised to 12.5% and then one of the individuals remembered and sued the bank, and I know how much, for example, since my father was the director of the Jugobanka Bank at the time, I know how much Jugobanka had to pay back for the complaint to the natural persons. These were enormous amounts. A suggestion is well given here, and here is the Mr., Central, or Director of the Central Bank, that in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the entities, everything should be tied to the euro. It's not true that we can't influence, we need to influence. In other ways, the state can have an impact on banks. It was very serious done by Croatia, the Hungarian government. And there's something else I want to say. If you were watching, and you had a chance, a month ago maybe up to two months ago, you saw Switzerland put in its banks an enormous amount of money in a way that brought U.S. money untaxed. So then the U.S. government forced her to give them 60 data for every Swiss bank client, and now she panicked whether Switzerland would be a more secure country and be the country in which it would be necessary to invest, or to save. So, as Amerikanac are, normal America is a force, so they forced all of their clients to deliver to them the Swiss who invested, not just American citizens, but all of them who invested and saved in Swiss banks. This is a purely legal question now. If we had entered into the bonding and legal relations between clients and banks, etc., etc., the problem would not have been for these clients who had borrowed loans if the banks had not provided mortgages, if the agreements had been signed, three wars would not have been paid and are immediately going into realisation in the executive procedure. And another thing I'm trying to say is that here might be a good message that future people don't get hurt when it comes to this matter, but the fact is the same is when we raise loans that we only care about money and I'm saying that half of our clients don't read the contracts at all. Just give the money, let me sign, take the money, and then when you read the contract, the bank says, so Mr. in Article 7, you signed what you signed, etc., etc. Here, Mr. Chairman, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6013	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to agenda 11, the secretary asked me to read you the following. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the start of the constitutive sessions of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will be moved by one hour, which means that it will start at 3:00 instead of 2:00, as previously planned, and that the start of the constituting sessions of the provisional joint committees of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedures for certain appointments will also be moved by one hour, which means that it will start at 4:00 instead of 3:00, as previously planned. Take this in mind and act accordingly. Point 11, Ad. 11. BiH presidency decision on group participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces in Peace Support Operation Resolute Support in Islamic Republic of Afghanistan On February 23rd 2015, the BiH presidency submitted a Decision on the participation of the group of BiH Armed Forces officers in the peace support operation, a decisive support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. The House College has designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission as responsible for considering the Decision. As you know, the Joint Defence and Security Commission has not yet been established. This is planned for today, after the House session, which is why we do not have the Commission's opinion on the Decision, and the reason for its placing on the agenda is the following. Namely, members of 6. The law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad provides for the following – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is required to consider the Presidency's decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, state 61 officials and other employees in peace support operations within 60 days of the date of adoption of the Decision. If the BiH Parliamentary Assembly fails to confirm the BiH presidency's decision within a given deadline, the decision will be considered rejected and all activities in its implementation will be suspended. Since the decision came into force on the date of its adoption, On 11 February 2015, the deadline of 60 days for its confirmation expires on 10 April 2015. That was the reason for putting on the agenda of this Decision, although we did not get the opinion of the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to item 14. Pardon, item 12 of the agenda, Ad. 12. Proposal for a decision amending Decision appointing members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6019	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6020	We have, look out, we have a general majority, we don't have these entity majoritys. And now we have to go round two, right? And we can't have a second round of voting because we don't have a member of the College here to see it. Consensus later on, if that's the case. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6021	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-04-08-0.u6022	Consensus later on on this agenda item. Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, that's point 6. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Denis Bećirović (the law in first reading). This is where we vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 9 against, there is no 2/3, so there is a general majority and there is no 2/3 against from Republika Srpska entities, or from another entity, right. So I realize that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer Denis Bećirović, was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 7. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the amount of tv tax – Proposer: Commission for Transport and Communications. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 8 against, 1 abstention, no 2/3 against any entity. I find that we have adopted a Decision on the amount of the TV tax, the Commission's proposal for transport and communication. Point 8. – Work report and the Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2014. We are voting on the adoption of the Work Report and the Financial Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with 30 votes in favour, without against and 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Work Report and the Financial Report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency for 2014. Point 9. – Report on gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012-2014. We vote on the following conclusions, the Commission's proposal for gender equality. Should I read you the conclusions? You don't have to. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. So 27 votes for, 5 votes against, 1 abstention. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted conclusions, so the report on the situation with the Commission's conclusions on gender equality. We move to item 10 of the agenda – Information from the Central Bank of BiH on the problems of credit users agreed with the obligation indexing clause in 64 Swiss francs (CHF) and measures taken to address these problems (realising Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 26.02.2015.). We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević. Should I read that conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, no problem, two abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDP Club, I hereby annul this vote and call on you to vote again on this point. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 32 votes for, no problem, one abstention. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusion proposed by Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, no problem, five abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have received this information. We're going to point 11. – The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of the group of senior officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the peace support operation Resolute support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. We're voting on confirming this decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 34 for, no problem, no abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted, confirmed, as the law already requires of us, this Decision. Let's go to point 12. – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of parliamentary delegations. We vote on the adoption of the Decision, namely the appointment of Predrag Kožul to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union instead of Vjekoslav Bevanda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no objection, five abstentions, enough entity majority. I realize we've made this decision. 65 We move to point 13. – Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Commissions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We vote on the adoption of the Decision, i.e. the election of Predrag Kožul as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission instead of Vjekoslav Bevanda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no problem, six abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have made this decision as well. Moving to point 14. – Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar. We vote on the adoption of the conclusion, that is, the appointment of Predrag Kožul as member of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes instead of Vjekoslav Bevanda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that, with 28 votes in favour, without votes against, with six abstentions, we also adopted this decision. Just to let you know, when it comes to item 13 of the agenda, that our vote, therefore, applied to the adoption of the Decision on Predrag Kožul's election in the Finance and Budget Commission instead of Vjekoslav Bevanda. And please once again, just for safety, we're going back to point 13, we're voting on adoption, we have two decisions under point 13. – A decision to elect Predrag Kožul as a member of the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers, also instead of Vjekoslav Bevanda, so that we can vote this out once more so that there is no problem. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 votes for, no problem, six abstentions. I find that, with a sufficient entity majority, we have adopted, therefore, and this Decision relating to point 13. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we ended the 10th session of the House of Representatives. I'm closing the 10th session. I note that the next session is scheduled for 29 April 2015. On Sunday, Orthodox Vaskrs, I am taking the opportunity to, on behalf of the House of Representatives and on behalf of all the Orthodox believers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, congratulate him by performing the Easter holiday, to spend it in health, happiness and joy. Thank you. Session completed at 2:30.
