ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8616	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the Gender Equality Agency whose information is on today's session agenda are also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury has received notice that Deputy Minister Mirsad Žuga will attend the session on behalf of this ministry. The BiH security minister justified the non-presence at the session. On behalf of this ministry, Deputy Minister Mijo Krešić will attend. BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is unable to participate in the 18th session due to his official trip. Also from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has been notified that meetings for official travel cannot be attended by Minister Semiha Borovac and Deputy Predrag Jović, and it also said that the meetings will be attended by the Gender Equality Agency BiH, Mrs Samar Samra-Filipović-Hadžiabdić and the adviser to the Minister for Legal Affairs, Mr Kemo Sarač. The absence from the session was justified by MPs: Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović and Nermina Kapetanović, and MP Senad Šepić announced a delay. According to service information, 35 representatives are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a meeting, in accordance with Article 171 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Mirsad Mešić, BiH Defence Minister, no response was given at the last session due to the Minister's absence, and it was found to be done at this session; Representative jasmin Emrić, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; Vice-President, or Deputy Šefik Džaferović, Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH. As MP Mehmedović justified the presence at the session, his question will be asked at the first next session to ask questions in oral form. Representative Salko Sokolović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Representative 2 Damir Bećirović, BiH Foreign Minister Dušanka Majkić, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Representative Amir Fazlić, BiH Foreign Minister Saša Magazinović, BiH Minister of Justice, Staša Košarac, BiH Minister of Security, and representative of Hazim Rančić, Minister of Security. These announcements are, in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure, delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure. The questions are addressed to the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8617	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. So I asked the secretary of defense that you had a chance to read. It refers to your moral relationship with the judicial problem you have, which has to do with the initiation of proceedings against you before the Court of Justice of BiH. So it's about serious accusations, about your unconscious work, which, of course, you're going to have to prove or dispute in the coming period. The motive of asking my question I will explain when you speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8618	The answer, BiH Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8619	Honorable MPs, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. As to your question, as you have now explained, I would like to answer that I have no intention of resigning on the basis of an indictment, because, as you know, I have been accused of being unwittingly involved in the service and forging an official statement to allow my adviser, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović, to make a financial profit of 16700 KM. Since I don't feel guilty, and I'm going to prove it in the defence procedure, and that's why I don't feel moral or any other obligation, and I believe in Bosnia and Herzegovina's justice system, and I'm going to prove my innocence.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8620	I thank the minister. Commentary, MP, is there? (technical disturbances) It's a technical problem, we apologize. We apologize to MP Mešić, you can sit down and until we can remove the technical problem we will call you for a comment. /technical disturbances/ 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8623	Thank you. So, the motive for asking this question, in fact, is to change the way of thinking about all the political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that the most responsible officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on any suspicion of their work, would be able to, that is, have a moral obligation to resign and thus provide judicial institutions with without any major pressure to make valid decisions. So, as far as I'm concerned, Madam Minister, you're seriously accused, you're being led by serious investigative actions, and I really believe that morally, therefore, it is entirely my personal position, you are not qualified to perform that duty at this time. Are you going to recognize it or not, whether it's the political party you're coming from, and that's HDZBiH, you know, I don't know that, of course. But in a similar situation to the party I belong to, I would always resign because of suspicion of any... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8624	Thank you very much. Representative jasmin Emrić, issue of the foreign trade minister and economic relations with BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8625	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A warm greeting to all present at today's session of the House. I ask the question of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which is concerning the adopted Conclusion No. 1 at the 14th session of the House of Representatives held on 30th of the current year, and the question is: – At what stage is the procedure of ratification of the Protocol on Strategic Impact Assessment of the Environment or SEA Protocol, and when will it be referred to in parliamentary procedure? Allow a brief explanation. I would like to remind you that at the 14th regular session, the House of Representatives adopted a conclusion requiring urgent procedures for ratifying the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, signed with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders or the ESPO Convention. It has been more than 3 months since the adoption of this conclusion, it has not been on the agenda of ratification of the same, and I ask the Ministry to declare the state of the ratification process, and when does it plan to refer the Protocol to parliamentary procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8626	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8627	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. 4 I would like to say that the Ministry has followed the conclusion of the House. The Ministry of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Protocol translated this document with an explanation, i.e. an explanation for its accession and certified it from a permanent English language court interpreter and directed it to the competent ministries of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District to give the necessary opinion. When all the necessary opinions arrive, we will refer this Protocol immediately to the parliamentary procedure, i.e. both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8628	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8629	I thank the minister. Why I point out and point out the urgency of ratification of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment or SEA Protocol, the reason is that, as we all know, a process in the Republic of Croatia has already been completed to develop a strategy for the implementation of the national programme for the disposal of radioactive waste. The proposal for a national implementation programme of the Radioactive Waste Management Strategy for 2015 and 2016 also provides for the design of the re-use of existing storage facilities at the site of Cerkezovac and the necessary infrastructure works. Which means that Bosnia and Herzegovina must, in fact, be urgently involved, I point to urgency, because documents that are already being produced that undoubtedly speak of the intention of the Republic of Croatia to take place only a few kilometers from the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8630	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8631	and populated cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are installing a landfill of radioactive waste. _________(?) It needs to be turned off. I point out the urgency because the Protocol provides for, or determined that by way of effect... the tenth day from the date of laydown of 16. Ratification papers. So, it takes us 3 months just to get the Protocol into effect, and in 2016 we are already scheduled to issue a building permit for construction of a disposal of radioactive waste at the location of Cerkezovac. Therefore Bosnia and Herzegovina is late in this procedure... [[Employee off microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8633	Before we start asking further questions just so you know this system is going to shut down, so take care of the weather. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8634	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8635	We're on parliamentary issues now, so don't let us go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8636	... So, we got this app for 100 days, no matter what... [[no microphone turned on]] Parliamentary assemblies and what's going on with the IPA program, but I think the machine's doing what someone's saving her. Here I see, of course big debates are being held and until they are finished, the Constitution or applications should be respected, the languages of the people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so... the Bosniak people, Serbian and Croatian, until this issue is resolved. Otherwise, this situation is unacceptable to me, and things are slowly being introduced here that lead to political and any other controversy. So I think this is a free-paid app as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8637	Thank you very much. He has the word Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here, a parliamentary question to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8638	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question for the BiH Council of Ministers, which reads: – Whether and what activities the BiH Council of Ministers takes to simplify the regime for the movement of people and the transport of capital of goods and services in the interests of citizens and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8639	Thank you very much. I welcome and give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8640	Dear President-in-Office, honourable members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media and guests, I welcome you all very much, I wish for the successful work of today's meeting of the House of Representatives. I would like to thank Reverend Džaferović for asking the question, and I can say several of the following facts. When it comes to the activities of the BiH Council of Ministers in terms of simplifying the movement of people, namely goods, services, transport and capital between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, the Council of Ministers, held in July of this year, tasked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take concrete steps to simplify the process of obtaining visas in Bosnia and Herzegovina by citizens of Kosovo, and, of course, we expect that, within that deadline, by the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, the deadline of 3 months, would create legal assumptions for the simplified access of 6 visas to Kosovo citizens, which would be the first step towards further liberalisation of the visa regime. In this regard, I can say that compared to the earlier decision of 2012 when each individual entry had to be approved by the Council of Ministers, and now the regime is simplified and as regards the visa procedure for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, there are barriers in this segment that cause serious damage, not only to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also to business entities, so Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. We thus have a situation that we as a state cannot in any way help the citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who is located in the territory of Kosovo or the domestic legal person who operates there, because we do not have access because of the non-recognition of the authority of the Kosovo administration, as well as the non-recognition of the documents from that territory. So neither we nor they can admit, let's say, the birth certificate of a child,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8641	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8642	a marriage certificate or any degree. For this reason, we will continue to work on visa liberalisation and simplification of the movement of capital, goods and services, and above all because of our business entities that want to operate in Kosovo's territory, respecting the established positions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign relations. And in this regard, we also expect Parliament's support in order to relax relations that are indeed a serious obstacle to the flow of citizens, goods and services between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8643	Thank you. Come in, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8644	So, I thank the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, I am pleased with the answer. Of course, I am not satisfied with the situation in this area and as far as I see the Council of Ministers within my jurisdiction, of course the competencies and these other institutions, when this thing is Wednesday, will take steps to simplify the regime of movement of people and the transport of goods, capital and services. So it is unacceptable that the regime is much, much more complicated when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so a state that has not yet recognised Kosovo, so compared to other countries that have not recognised Kosovo, for example. Serbia. The regime and the movement of people and the transport of goods, services and capital are much simpler when it comes to the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo than it is with respect to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. This is a pity for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all businessmen and I support that the Council of Ministers in the consolidation of existing political relations and relations does everything to simplify this, I say to the benefit of all citizens and businessmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8645	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8646	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all those present in the O.R., and I also welcome the citizens who are following this transmission. My question is referred to by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers: – When will the Council of Ministers initiate the drafting of the Law on Immigrantism, the Strategy for Co-operation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Immigrants, the Law on the Queen of Bh Immigrants and possibly the Law on Supplemental Education in the native language and the care of culture and the identity of bh emigrants, if this matter is not treated by the Law on Immigrantism, and when will it be established? Normally, if delivered in the procedure of this document on emigrants, then the Parliamentary Assembly will have to decide on the formation of the Commission on emigration. One brief explanation. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country in the region that has no immigration document and has so far not treated this matter, and I think the need for both the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the bh citizens in emigration is to adopt such documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8647	Thank you. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8648	Thank you. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. So, at its 15th session in July, the Council of Ministers took note of the initiative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the need to draft the Diaspora Law and at the 22nd session of the Ministry of Human Rights, the Council of Ministers sent a diagram of the draft of the Diaspora Act and of all the previous acts that should actually be preceded, in order for the law to be comprehensive and treat all the areas that you yourself have spoken about. At that session, it is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to, in cooperation with other competent institutions at all levels of government, prepare, above all, a proposal for a policy on co-operation with the diaspora, which is an essential prerequisite for the legal regulation of this matter. The preparation of a policy on co-operation with the diaspora is under way, and as soon as it is completed, we will, of course, refer that policy to the Parliamentary Assembly, get to know all the relevant authorities. As soon as we get confirmation of the basic directions and objectives that will be defined by the diaspora co-operation policy, it will be converted into the Diaspora Act, which will then very clearly within the legal norm regulate our relations with the diaspora, i.e. the residents and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina who live and work outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8649	Thank you. Does he have a comment? Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8650	I understood the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I would just ask, because of some experience that we have in the work so far, that the Council of Ministers, here's the argument that 8 said by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the deadlines for making documents, i.e. some hodogram, and to deliver it to us in parliamentary procedure, that we can simply follow it and see if we realize it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8651	Thank you very much. I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8652	Thank you. My question is to the foreign minister, but he's not here, nor is the deputy, so I'll just read my question and I'd like to get a written answer from them when they're here. So, it refers to the work of Libyan Embassy employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I'm curious about is how many people at the Embassy of Libya in Bosnia and Herzegovina have diplomatic status and how many are really in our country? Also, has the head of the BiH Police Committee, acting at the Embassy of Libya, Mr Alije Amish, been granted diplomatic status and on what grounds, especially if the information is correct that the person mentioned also owns bh citizenship? And since the Treaty between the Committee and the UKC of Sarajevo is still in force, do the persons coming to our country go through any control by officials of our respective institutions in both Libya and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there are certain allegations that people who are not simply in care are coming here, who do not have the need for medical care? I'd just like to ask the foreign minister to come forward, too, so in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8653	Thank you very much. As the representative expects a written reply, I give the speaker Dušanka Majkić the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8654	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, members of the College, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, not accidentally and not because I like him, because if we all ask questions from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the other ministers will be bored, so it is not by accident, and it is about meeting the remaining obligations of the Council of Ministers for the smooth work of the Office for the Review of Appeals, as a second-degree public procurement body, and that of the branch of Banja Luka and Mostar, in line with the amendment of the Law on Public Procurement of 2013 and the new Public Procurement Act of 2014. So, I remind you, it's been more than a year and a half that we haven't completed the office to consider complaints that virtually no longer has the ability to work. By law, we cut her off certain jobs, and we didn't set up offices in Mostar and Banja Luka. Accordingly my question to the chairman – Why is it impossible to establish the work of these offices, and today we choose those people who are to be hired there, why has he not yet been adopted? If he's troublesome for any reason, why doesn't he go back to the institution and say he's not okay? Second question – Why did the Council of Ministers not find a solution to the accommodation of this institution? Does it not matter to us that such a significant institution has no conditions for accommodation? And third – Why besides this large budget
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8655	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8656	Here I am ending, the budget reserves that are given everywhere, they didn't get as new branches why didn't they get from the budget reserve funds so they could work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8657	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8658	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. I don't know if it's really possible in two minutes to give answers to all the questions asked within this question, but here, I'll say this very briefly. So, as you just said, under the Law on Public Procurement, more precisely Article 93, the Office for the Review of Appeals is an independent and independent institution that corresponds directly to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is also submitted by the Annual Work Report. The members of the Board of Appeals appoints the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, takes the decision to launch and implement the selection procedure, appoint a commission, appoint members, form a list, etc., all that you will do today. When we talk about the establishment of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, it also practically falls within the authority of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which has all the competences and competences over the establishment and work of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branches of the Office for the Review of Appeals. As regards the obligations of the Council of Ministers, they are related to the provision of funds in the Finance Budget of that institution and these funds for this year are secured, including salaries and fees paid to the staff, as well as the payment of accommodation leases, with additional funds also allocated from the budget reserve. As regards the Internal Organisation Regulation of the Office of Appeals, it will be on the agenda at one of the two next Council of Ministers meetings, given that we are going according to certain sets, whether, rather than individual institutions and thus, the obligations of the Council of Ministers, resulting from the Public Procurement Act, will be fully met, and that means the provision of funds in the Budget, Security, so the adoption of the Office's Internal Organisation Regulation. And finally, the accommodation of the institutions, for which the Council of Ministers has taken the decision, has commissioned the Joint Affairs Service to implement this Decision within all the facilities bought for the needs of BiH institutions in eastern Sarajevo, Tuzla, Banja Luka and Mostar. And the realisation of this Decision, for the final accommodation of our institutions, and in order to save the funds we normally give for rent, is now in progress and will be realised, according to a statement at the last Council of Ministers meeting by the Director of the Joint Affairs Service, very quickly, here I say in the next 15 days. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8659	Thank you. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8660	I know... Parliament's obligations and we will today have this obligation that Parliament has to complete, but we will not end the matter of the Rules of Procedure, or regulations. We can't do that. Why is he waiting a year and what else is he supposed to wait for? How long does it take to wait? We've blocked public procurement because we're doing this with the kancelarija for consideration. Please, they complain everywhere, they sent all MPs a letter, the dramatic state is in that institution. If the Council of Ministers doesn't understand, then it's a really difficult thing. Everyone's waiting, the companies that applied can't work, blocking a total one.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8661	Thank you very much. I give my word to MP Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8662	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected leadership, members of the Council of Ministers. My question concerns and I'm asking it to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Since neither the foreign minister nor his deputy are there, I expect an oral response. But here's to the public and the colleagues and the media who are following us, I'm going to ask a question. The question is: – Why has the BiH Foreign Ministry not passed the Foreign Affairs Act and the Internal Organisation Regulation? One brief comment. So, the 2014 audit reports and 2013 focussed on this Foreign Affairs Act. We know that the Ministry has done this Law, referred him to the procedure and that there is a comment waiting from members of the Bureau. But since we have new people in the ministry, because the Ministry is run by the minister and the deputy minister, we do, so I want to make them more active in solving this problem. Since they have no internal organisation rules, so we come to an absurd situation that one such important ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has large budgets, which it is working on the affirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is working without two essential normative acts. Further comments, after receiving a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8663	Thank you very much for your representative. We expect an oral response at the next session. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8664	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Deputy Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, others present, I welcome you all. 11 The Minister isn't here, is he? Is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8665	Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8666	He's got a deputy, great. A short question – Is the problem known, and is the Ministry’s payout problem in the BiH Prosecutor’s Office, or is it known to them that five prosecutors who deal with the most serious criminal acts since March 2015 have not been paid? What is it and what has the Ministry done on this case? And one general comment from the Ministry on such a phenomenon, since here, we were witnesses of the minister signing judicial protocols, giving us lectures on modern societies, and there's a case that in the D.A.'s office, five prosecutors who deal with the most difficult cases, war crimes, have no salary since March of the month.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8667	I'd like to thank the representative. Deputy Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8668	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, media, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I would like to inform you about the question of the honourable MP Saša Magaznović. We've actually assumed that this is a matter, this particular issue, and I want to inform you that in this process, general and special conditions have been met, by the competent institutions in the field of justice, for the payment of salaries to prosecutors. The conditions were defined by the Financial Memorandum on Understanding for the Assistance of BiH's Institutions to the BiH Justice Sector in resolving pending cases in the prosecutors' and courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which relate to war crimes, which has been signed by the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina since 18.12.2013. For the sake of clarification, I will look briefly at the conditions met, which is primarily a satisfactory implementation of the Strategy for Reforming the Justice and State Strategy for War Crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a satisfactory implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then a new Justice Sector Reform Strategy adopted at the 22nd session of the Council of Ministers of BiH since 8 September 2015. In addition to this, there is a particular demand for progress in resolving approximately 5% of the total number of pending war crimes cases by mid-2014 and a positive trend has been established in reducing the number of pending cases, then meeting action plans for each prosecution individually and reducing the number of pending cases in line with the general objectives of support and a significant increase in the number of judicial and prosecutorial activities in the processing of war crimes cases. On the basis of the results of the first and second reporting periods related to the implementation of budgetary support,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8669	Time, Deputy. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8670	Those statistics, it is apparent that specific conditions are met. Given the increase in the number of cases resolved in the prosecutions and courts compared to the year preceding the budget support, it is clear that the number of actions and activities undertaken by the prosecution and courts in the work on cases has increased. Therefore, meeting the above conditions remains for the payment of the EU wage tranche to prosecutors. The BiH Ministry of Justice is 05.10.2015 on this, i.e. meeting the conditions, the EU also issued such a statement. After the EU implements internal procedures, the tranche of assistance to the Budget for the BiH Justice Sector institutions will be paid to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and will be forwarded further to the relevant institutions. If they need these statistical indicators, of course, we can deliver them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8671	Thank you, Deputy Pivić. Does the comment have a representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8672	I thank the chairman. So in March 2014, these five prosecutors appointed the VSTV as prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors until the 1970s, with all the rights that belong to all the prosecutors already at the job. All five prosecutors have been appointed to the mandate of unlimited duration with rights and obligations belonging to others. As the assistant minister said, it is about prosecutors working on war crimes, so a very specific topic, a very sensitive topic, and it is about the fact that since March 2015 five prosecutors working on these complex cases have no salary. So the public needs to know that. The Ministry needs to deal with it. By the way, the finance ministry has already given way to resolve this a few months ago, but nobody respects it alive, since Budget has enough funds for new employment in the prosecution, but here. So I want to point out this problem, I want the public to know about it, and it doesn't matter when we talk about various protocols in the judiciary that these things in the micro environment are also known about what's going on, so war crimes prosecutors don't have a salary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8673	Thank you. I give my word to counsel Staši Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8674	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Council of Ministers. My question is more personally addressed to Minister Mektić than to the Ministry, but I fully respect the role of Deputy Minister, which reads: – Is it at all the stage of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's investigation into the officials and perpetrators of the organised attack on Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić, who was carried out on 11 July this year at the Potocari Memorial Centre? 13 If such an investigation is conducted, when can it be expected to press charges, arrests against those who have devised and committed this crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8675	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister of Security, Mr. Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8676	Dear President, Vice President, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, the media, good day to you. The only answer to this question of yours is the BiH Prosecutor's Office that has the necessary information. As far as the BiH Council of Ministers is concerned, the Ministry of Security has, in the past period, undertaken the following activities. At an extraordinary session held in Sarajevo on 13 July 2015, the BiH Council of Ministers discussed information on the security aspect of the organisation of the memorial and funeral in Sebrenica, Potocari and the attack on the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vučić. And on that occasion, the Council of Ministers condemned the attack on Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić. The data is tasked with the BiH Ministry of Security to provide detailed information in a hurry and co-ordination with all competent authorities, security agencies, the Police Body Coordination Directorate. This has been done, and detailed information has been adopted by the Council of Ministers, as well as by the addition of information, and has defined, meaning, certain tasks. The Council of Ministers expressed dissatisfaction with the degree of co-ordination of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police and other security bodies and tasked the Ministry of Security with preparing measures and normative acts, aimed at improving coordination. We are currently working to realise this task in order to create conditions for improving co-operation and coordination within the Bosnia and Herzegovina security system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8677	Thank you. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8678	Of course I do. It's clear to me that the right answer can be given to me by the D.A.'s office, but it's been three months and nothing's happened. On the one hand, we have, we are witnessing in public... I would say, the political autism of Minister Mektić, who is the prosecutor's class, the officer's hour, the prosecutor's hour. We have his public view that this issue will be resolved, that those who ordered and executed it will be processed, as will the position of a Serbian member of the presidency, or a member of the Republika Srpska Presidency, Mladen Ivanić, who says there will be nothing out of this investigation because there is political pressure from one side in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you – with what do we welcome Vučić who announced his arrival in Srebrenica again and with what do we welcome Vučić who again announced his arrival in Sarajevo? And there is a political responsibility for people who are participating from Republika Srpska in the Council of Ministers and of course to the Minister of Resort. I will use the Rules of Procedure and also at the next session to wait for Mr. Mektić to answer these questions, because this is completely politically non-serious. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8679	Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8680	Thank you very much. Respected chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, media representatives, respected guests. My question is, therefore, to the Ministry of Security, the Minister of Security, and in this case there is the Deputy Minister: – When will it be prepared and delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Proposed Law on Police Officers? On 23 July 2015, the Council of Ministers withdrew from the parliamentary procedure of the proposed law and pledged to prepare and submit a new text of the whole law to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also adopted a conclusion obliging the Council of Ministers to draft a new text of the law. How far have you arrived at the draft of this law, which is only one of the measures adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the topic – the legislative framework, the current state and plans of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the field of defence and security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8681	Thank you. Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8682	So, thank you, Mr. Honorable Representative Rančić. At the 16th session, held on 23 July 2015, the Council of Ministers decided to withdraw from the parliamentary procedure the draft law on police officers, established by the Council of Ministers at the 89th session, held on 4 April 2014. The reason for the withdrawal of the proposed Law on Police Officers is a large number of amendments that would require more than 50% of the provisions of the proposed law, which means that, according to unique rules, it is necessary to approach the making of the whole text of the law. The Ministry of Security has received the assignment and is currently working to prepare the draft of the whole text of the law. On 29 September 2015, the Ministry of Security adopted an act by the Secretary-General which made it known that the Council of Ministers was asked for an indication of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH, whose proposings are representatives of the House of Peoples of BiH, Mr Ognjen Tadić and Mr Darko Babalj. The amendments requested relate to Article 119 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the The law on BiH police officers, the basis of the termination of employment. And an opinion on this proposal is under way, and this will be addressed very quickly to the Council of Ministers and continues in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8683	Thank you, Deputy Krešić. 15 Advocacy comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8684	Thank you very much for your answer. Although I did not get a precise answer until the Council of Ministers arrived in drafting the new text of the Law on Police Officers, which was mandatory after the Council of Ministers concluded in July and after the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, afterwards. I know of these reasons, and I know that he is in the process in front of the House of Peoples of the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers. I would not like the Council of Ministers and the Ministry to await the fate of the Law which is in the procedure of the House of Peoples, who will likely experience the same or similar fate, because that part was regulated in the same way and in the Law that was withdrawn from the procedure, so I would ask the Ministry of Security, regardless of what it is responsible to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8685	Time. HAZM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8686	to the law which is in the procedure, that, by respecting the position of the Parliamentary Assembly and, of course, its conclusion, the Council of Ministers, seriously approach the drafting of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8687	Thank you very much. At this point, we're exhausted, thank you all for your questions and for your answers. And now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 16. The appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and members of the branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, No: 01,02-50-14-470,8/15, of 29.09.2015. Point 25. By way of derogation from point (a) of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It was downloaded from the previous agenda: Point 13. A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27.08.2015, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the College of the House to establish the agenda and, for the longest time every 60 days, establish a mandatory item of the agenda, called the Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitments on the European path and the level of compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitments under the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda for BiH for the period 2015- 2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a part of the agenda of the next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH", issue: 01-50-16 1-1136/15 of 27.08.2015, was removed from the agenda at the request of the Joint Committee for European Integration, as the Committee held no proposals for the initiative. The name of the material referred to in point 17 has been amended in accordance with the BiH Presidency's notice of 23/09/2015 and reads – Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Poland to avoid double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and capital, No 01,02-05-2-1169/15, of 08/09/2015 and 23/09/2015. Point 8. Proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer Damir Arnaut, Act No: 01-02-4-1143/15, of 31.08.2015, was supplemented by the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, because the principles of the Amendment to the Rules of Procedure are not supported. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Saša Magazinović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8688	I thank the chairman. One quick question. Since the Council of Ministers has promoted the adoption and parliamentary procedure of the Law on Religious Holidays, i.e. working days during religious holidays, and since it is the same text that we refused on several occasions, with an explanation that we do not want to have the Law on Religious Holidays before we have the State Holidays Act, why did he not find himself on the agenda today? I mean, did the Council of Ministers withdraw that Law, aware that there's no logic in having religious holidays and we don't have state holidays, or is that some kind of procedural story that we're going to have at one of the next sessions?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8689	Thank you. Denis Bećirović also reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8690	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, at last session of the House of Representatives, I publicly resigned as a member of the Human Rights Commission because of a discriminatory policy towards the Bosnian language as one of three equal languages in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have concluded, the Honorable Chairman, that this cannot be entered into the agenda because it has not been delivered in writing. After that, as the rules then state, I delivered my resignation in writing, and I expected today to be a mandatory item of the agenda, so to adopt my resignation for the reasons I stated. Since I do not see these agenda points today in the offered agenda, I have to ask the question – Why is this not included in the agenda today? So today, as at the last session, I firmly believe that it is for no purpose to be a member of the commission of the so-called Human Rights Commission, while at the same time being a witness that, according to serious estimates, more than 2 million citizens of this country who call their language Bosnian do not have the right to use the language equally in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that language that has a very strong and scientific and historical background. It would never occur to me if I were to tell any citizen or people how and in what way they would speak and how they would nominate their language. But I have to ask 17 how it is possible for some to reach for such an unspeakable violation of human rights in this country. So I ask you to put this issue on the agenda today, the agenda point has been delivered and Parliament will do what I propose.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8691	Thank you very much. Representative Arnaut reported for the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8692	It's just a microphone. It's just a microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8693	Try representing yourself to press the key.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8694	I need to hold the key while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8695	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8696	Here's my colleague Isaković's key, uh, I'm very glad we've improved this system in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8697	Let him say when it's time to stop.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8698	And I think that, I'll tell Mr. Isaković, when Mr. Škaljić helps, uh, afterwards. And I think it is very appropriate since my question, i.e. my intervention on the agenda, concerns item 14, where in the accompanying act in one sentence we have a proposal for a conclusion that says – At the location of the Shop Mountain, the municipality of Dvor. And then, in the next sentence, he says, "The Mountain of Commerce, the municipality of Drvar." And let's just say it's only in the accompanying act, but the name of the conclusion says - the Commission at the location of the Shop Mountain, the municipality of Dvor, and in Article 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Working Group to monitor the situation and activities related to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump on the location of Trška Gora, the Drvar municipality appoints... Well, in order not to take off such an important item from the agenda, I'm really appealing to the service and management of the House to correct this obvious mistake, because if there's going to be a nuclear waste disposal in the Drava municipality right now... we have a problem. But I think this is about a mistake, as it is about a mistake with these microphones. Well, by the time we get to point 14. I hope we get the right material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8699	Thank you very much for your representative. Representative Backović reported on the debate. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8700	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and present guests, as well as present ministers with Mr. Zvizdić at the helm. Given the proposed agenda, and the discussion we had at the previous session again on the agenda, I can't understand, because the same situation is going through Mr. Denis as I did when I proposed the Borders Declaration. I also insist from the secretary of the House of Representatives that with what it is, and directly related to the item of the agenda proposed by Mr Denis Zvizdić, I share what I have delivered to you, Mr Secretary, and I see that it is not divided again to the MPs. I have officially delivered it and formally asked it to be shared with the MPs, as regards this item of the agenda, so that only MPs, seeing what I have delivered along with the proposed item of the agenda, may be different, and I ask you nicely to carry out what is required of you as a secretary. As an MP, I delivered it at the previous session and you told me that during this session it would be divided. I don't see it divided, please do it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8701	I'd like to thank the representative. The debate came from a representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8702	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I propose adding to the agenda, in the form of a conclusion, which will be entrusted to the international relations sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the delivery of information for the 2014-2018 call for a period of these incomplete years, which of the deputies received the approval from the Joint College of both homes to travel and be somewhere in the Bosnia and Herzegovina delegation, accompanied by who, was accompanied by the translator/translater. Why this? With reasons while Mr. Šefik Džaferović chaired this Assembly Commission, the Joint Committee on Human Rights was invited to a regional conference that was planned during a period in June when a plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives was to be held, and we did not receive approval as the Joint Committee on Human Rights, but representatives and deputies from this House, while delegates and delegates were granted permission from the House of Peoples to travel. We are witnessing right now that there are no representatives and deputies in this House, because they have been given to travel to certain committees, certain delegations, and as full members and members, while for some committees and delegations they dispute that all three members of a committee or some delegations travel and break out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also need this information according to who comes from foreign delegates and delegates in Bosnia and Herzegovina to this building and who all of the representatives, delegates and delegates welcomed these people to illuminate the face of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That when you see, you will see only three people showing up when a foreign delegation is to be welcomed, while these same people dispute that they are travelling anywhere, that they are emerging outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and when they are to be welcomed absolutely by representatives and MPs there is no one. I ask that the sector deliver this information to me by the next session, and it is very important that it delivers to me whether the translator and translator are accompanied, because it has a reason that two members or two members cannot leave a committee because it requires additional costs. I ask what kind of discrimination it is that I am challenged from going to a delegation or a committee, speaking two languages, I don't need an interpreter/ translator, while one of my colleagues may be using and taking the translator/ 19 translator, challenging me to go, and the same costs would be if the two of us were to go or if a colleague or a colleague accompanied by an interpreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8703	Thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more complaints for the debate, I'm concluding a debate on the agenda. I'm making comments. As for the esteemed representative, Saša, the question is that the Law on religious holidays was not found. Once the procedure has been respected, everything that the Council of Ministers has established in accordance with the business procedure will come and be held at our session. As for Denis Bećirović, we're talking about the attitude to discuss resignation. The resignations are not debated, neither in the House nor in the Committee, it is a personal act for everyone. Our Rules of Procedure obliges us to, who says, Article 30. – The House appoints members of the commission and it must be in line with the distribution of the place in the House. We discussed this issue at the Expansive College meeting yesterday and asked the SDP for a proposal, because the position in this Committee is the SDP's place in strength and size of the club. We are waiting for the SDP's proposal to fill this place and will find a decision to amend the decision to appoint a member of the commission in this place and will then be on the agenda. As for Agent Arnaut. Point 14. is spelled correctly in the agenda. As for the mistakes of technical, grammatical, etc., they are a matter of material, we can discuss it when it comes to our agenda. As for MP Backović, to share what was delivered. We had this problem at the last session, we got some material and you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, this material that's being divided here must be indicated for which point and which material it refers to, we didn't have, so for these reasons it's not divided. And today everything that is added by the MPs as a material must be indicated by which point it applies to be, whether it is a conclusion, whether it is a supplemental material. So a conclusion or some material cannot be proposed beyond the agenda point. As far as Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil is concerned. I understood this as a representative's question, so I ask you in writing to submit the question to any College, whether, I don't know, committees, etc. You'll all get an answer that's going to be the way you ask the question, whether it's going to be information or whether it's going to be an answer. Here, at this point I'm exhausting the debate. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8704	The Honorable Chairman. Since you have called on the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to say that there is a very clear hierarchy of legal acts in this country and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative cannot be above the Constitution of BiH. Since you are referring to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to appeal to the Rules of Procedure and say that I do not wish to violate Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, because the first thing I and 20 together with my colleagues and colleagues have done here at the First Constitutional Session is a solemn statement, where we have committed ourselves to respect the Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement and to protect the equality of all peoples and citizens in this country. This is, therefore, a violation of the Deton Peace Agreement and the Constitution signed in Bosnian. For these reasons, therefore, I want it on the agenda and to be adopted because I do not want to be an accomplice to the violation of neither the Dayton Peace Agreement nor the BiH Constitution. And those who play with such things, let them take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8705	Thank you. Correcting the wrong quote again, Denis, that's a mistake, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8706	It's not a mistake, I said it all through the probative question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8707	Okay, thanks. I'm realizing we've exhausted the debate on the agenda. I find that the 18th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the 17th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliament House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08.2015. (first reading); 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-116/15, of 07/09/2015. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/15, of 11/09/2015. (first reading); 6. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrežalica, Law No: 01-02-1-11/15, of 30.07.2015. (law in first reading); 7. The request of the Constitutional Legal Committee to consider Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Act No 01-02-4-1197/15, of 15/09/2015; 8. Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Act No: 01-02-4-1143/15, of 31.08.2015, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Act No: 01,02- 02-4-1086/15, of 31.07.2015; 10. Report by the Commission of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22.07.2015, which reads as follows: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the Proposal for a Law on the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina no later than six months after the date of adoption of this initiative, as well as in the parliamentary procedure," issue: 01-50-1036/15, of 22.07.2015; 11. A report by the House of Representatives' College on its efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and on the study of mother tongue throughout BiH", issue: 01-50-1191/15, since 15/09/15; 12. Information from Bosnia and Herzegovina for the UN Committee for the Elimination of Women Discrimination (UN Cedaw), Material of the Gender Equality Agency, Act No: 01/6-50-1-1111/15, of 09/09/2015; 13. Proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH election legislation to draft the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO – Proposer: Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the location of Trska Gora, Municipality of Dvor – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1105/15, of 22/09/2015; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1229/15, of 22/09/2015; 16. The appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar, material of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and members of the branches in Banja Luka and Mostar, No: 01,02-50-14-470,8/15, of 29.09.2015; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Poland to avoid double taxation and the prevention of income and capital tax evasion, No: 01,02-05-2-1169/15, of 08/09/2015 and 23/09/2015; 18. Granting consent to ratify the Protocol on Application Management with the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin, issue: 01,02-05-2-1170/15, of 08/09/2015; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa-free travel, No: 01,02-05-2-1171/15, of 08/09/2015; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the rights and obligations of the use of water from public 22 water supply systems cut by state border, No: 01,02-05-2-172/15, of 08.09.2015; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Global Environment Fund (GEF) Grant Agreement for the preparation of a regional project for the management of the Drina River Basin between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the function of the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, issue: 01,02-05-2-1173/15, of 08/09/2015; 22. Approving the ratification of the Agreement on the Grant of the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) for the preparation of a regional project for the management of the Drina River Basin between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the Implementation of the Special Climate Change Fund, issue: 01,02-05-2-1174/15, of 08.09.2015; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission and the Implementing Protocol on the procedures for the application of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on Reading, No. 01.02-05-2-195/15, of 15.09.2015; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union Customs 2020 Programme, No 01,02-05-2-1196/15, of 15/09/2015; 25. By way of derogation from point (a) of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Before we move to point one, I would say that, in accordance with Article 27, point (f) of the debate, I will shorten the agenda to 5 minutes. And now we move to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 17th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I don't see any reports. Finalise the debate in the first item of the agenda. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8710	The chairman, very short. At one of the sessions before the annual vacations, I asked a question about the use of cars outside of work hours, who, under what conditions, etc., you probably remember because on several occasions I insisted that I get that answer. So far, I have received from three or four ministries very correct answers, but not all ministries in the Council of Ministers, and in particular not one agency and another state institution have provided an answer to that question. I don't think there's any need to avoid answering very simple technical questions creating a public fama that now all official cars of all institutions are going to the cottages after four hours. There are such cases, and my question has been focused on certain cases, but missing answers for a few months gives me the right, is, to maybe raise that question to another level, to talk more about it. I ask you, as a working leadership, as the people who are handling this Parliament, not about a specific issue, but about the Council of Ministers' relationship, to once again underline that the deadlines for reply must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8711	Thank you. Next to comment, MP Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8712	Thank you. 24 I received the answer, I asked the additional parliamentary question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it is a matter of competence of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but there are huge foreign implications for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as I have already cited from the Ministry of Civil Affairs I have received a completely unsatisfactory, civil servant response, however I am really glad that the foreign ministry took this issue seriously and I would like to congratulate them on the answer to the additional question that they have provided and in which they clearly state that they will launch, offered by my question, launch an initiative towards the Ministry of Civil Affairs as a competent to resolve this. So that's really one example, uh, how can you... when it comes to foreign affairs and how you don't... work when there's a civil servant's answer to the question that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is delivering. I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the correct response he gave me on Canton 10, as stated in the materials of the former Herceg-Bosnian Canton and at the conclusion that this will be corrected at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers. Finally, my colleague Isaković and I asked the Office of the High Representative more than six months ago, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which clearly specify that the Office of the High Representative can be asked parliamentary questions. We haven't received an answer in over six months. The question concerned, in particular, Article 20. The law on gender equality, which stipulates that in the Council of Ministers' meeting with all other governments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the government of the Federation, RS, etc., canton, at least 40% of members of the less-represented sex are required. And we have appointed this Office of the High Representative, because it is the Office of the High Representative who sent us all a letter, in December when we took office here, that in the appointment of the Government, or the Council of Ministers, when it comes to this Assembly, we should stick to that Article 20. Rules of Procedure. And then we set up the Office of the High Representative is the current Council of Ministers' meeting in accordance with that article and his letter? But we've been waiting six months for an answer. And in the absence of such an answer, we can conclude, uh, that it is, that there is no problem when it comes to the Law on Gender Equality, because in the absence of such an answer... this concludes that the composition of the Council of Ministers can be like this regardless of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, or that 40% of members of the less-represented sex are not necessarily necessary. And one more thing, I've been waiting for more than a month for the Justice Department's answer to the additional question, I would really ask you to hurry up and take these business provisions a little more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8713	Thank you. The following comment was received by representative Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8714	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked the question on August 27th, so in August at our session, and here's the answer I got in October. Little is the response to the delay, therefore, not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with these provisions of our Rules of Procedure, and I think it applies to our Council of Ministers. I received the answer succesively – first of the Foreign Office in September, and then, here at the beginning of October by the Minister of Security. Neither answer is complete. But in the meantime, as MPs, we all received information from the Council of Ministers on the assessments and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the refugee crisis in the region and the EU. They delivered it to us at the request of our commission, sent it on 02.10. So here since 15.09 was the conclusion adopted at the 10th session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. And if all three documents are united then I could accept it as a valid answer. And the essence of my question was the reason for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take action and prepare for the possible spillover of the refugee crisis from the Republic of Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have also heard in the media the position of the Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security that Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready for a possible inflow of refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, if the measures imposed by the Council of Ministers are met by both the Ministry of Security and the Co-ordination Team, and if they are responsible for reporting on the deadlines for implementing these measures, I hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be ready for this possible problem and especially to pay proper attention to future even-in-a-lifetime accommodation of refugees. The second question I received was the question also to the Ministry of Security, and I received an answer from the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr. Lisak, and that answer has nothing to do with the question. The answer states, yes, I mean it has to do, but it is inaccurate and incomplete, the same thing that has already been contained in the report of that agency that we discussed at one of the previous sessions. It precisely states that 13 institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have their plans to fight corruption and integrity plans. I specifically asked to indicate which institutions did not do so. And if they did not respect and implement the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, did they, and could not implement the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which was from 2009 to 2014, when they did not make their own plans. I later made contact with the Agency and got that list but I don't want to have that list myself. I want all MPs to have an answer as to how it is right and how it stands in the Rules of Procedure. And I therefore ask for an additional reply to be delivered to the number of agencies, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that did not do these documents and did not implement this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8715	Thank you for your commentary on the written response. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8716	This is obvious, when the president of the club reports that this is working, when a member of the club comes in, there's a little bit of a problem, but, well, for now, I'm having this convention. I warmly greet everyone. So, I had two questions. It is obligations in line with the signed Treaty with the EU Energy Community, i.e. the European Commission and the commitments undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this does not happen effectively. I got a quite correct answer, and that correct answer actually indicates that these mechanisms are not effective enough and very slow and deadlines are running. Therefore, I do appeal a little... if it could be possible to get those deadlines, to make those commitments that are on our side to try to initiate that we try to maintain those deadlines that have been taken over from the Treaty with the Energy Community. As far as the second question is concerned, it is very similar to that asked by a colleague, Magazinović, and it is about using a car. And I'm really, as I would say, and surprised to say that this much coincides with 26 questions of mine and his, but I'm here, in fact my focus was, since I often go to Tuzla-Sarajevo-Saraje, at the inconveniences that meet on that road. And I recorded the last inconvenience on my cell phone, and that was a full-speed shift in the curve code, across a full line, where a cop was just putting away all of us who were on the road, and he went by without even thinking about whether that would put the rest of us at risk in traffic. I'm interested in that – who gives the order for drivers or those who use that car to behave in this way and create discomfort on the road. I'm actually interested in that, I can't say any more, but I'm very interested in that question. Of course, I can't be satisfied with the fact that I've received answers from just a few ministries from the Council of Ministers. Of course, I didn't get that answer from the Bureau because they probably don't need to answer the question. I appeal once again to the Council of Ministers to try to answer this question, and of course, here I assume that somehow this vote will reach the members of the Presidency, regardless of what they would be obliged to attend these Parliament meetings, but here they are not present, but I think that voice will somehow come to them and we will get an answer from them, because we have the right to ask questions of that kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8717	Thank you, counsel. I don't see any more reports. I am concluding the debate under point 2. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for an Asylum Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 06/08/2015. The House College has appointed him responsible for his consideration of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system on 15.09.2015. Last meeting of the House did not accept the negative opinion of the Competent Committee on the Principles of the Bill, and the Committee was responsible for, in accordance with Article 113(3). Rules of Procedure, drawing up a new opinion on the proposed law. The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion on the principles of the asylum law proposal 06.10.2015. This time the principles of the bill are supported. I'm opening a debate on the asylum bill proposal. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8719	In last session of the House of Representatives, we discussed a negative report by the Joint Committee on Human Rights on this matter. And as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, I can say with sufficient certainty that the negative report, i.e. the lack of votes in the order of the Croatian people, was mostly caused, because the principles, therefore in the first reading, were the most caused, I cannot say even incorrectly, I think that it was indeed an appropriate word, this, extremely impertinent behaviour of the representatives of the said Ministry, the assistant minister in that ministry, who was a member of this Commission, in one 27 extremely harsh way, offended and we had what we had. We had a debate last time at the House on this negative opinion and the negative opinion was rejected after the security minister's guarantees, Mr Dragan Mektić, put behind that speaker. I think it is an extremely important issue when someone comes out for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's pay phone when he speaks in front of the coat of arms and the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when he addresses this House, or the MPs who are here thanks to the votes of the citizens, that when he makes a promise, when he assumes certain obligations and that concrete guarantees for that speaker, which directly affect the voice of the MPs here, some of us, meant, everyone voted to return this to the Joint Commission for Human Rights for review and one number voted for, thanks exclusively to the concrete and very direct obligations that Mr Mektić, or Minister Mektić, has taken on that speaker. I quote from the stenogram, i.e. from the tone, at 5:08:03 am Mr. Mektić says – I ask you if it is possible to find a way, here I am ready whenever you want me to go back to that Commission and go member by member. And then at 5:08:54 Minister Mektić says this – let us, if possible, please, I pray you, whenever you schedule this commission I will come and it is important that we explain it. Here, whenever you schedule that commission, I'll come and it's important that we explain it. Minister Mektić did not show up on the commission on Monday, and he concluded. He again sent the same assistant minister who insulted one delegate at the previous session of the Commission, which proves that the Ministry of Security was familiar with the time and place of holding the Commission's session. So, following the explicit guarantees that Minister Mektić gave to this dom, which he gave to this House in front of the coat of arms and flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the speaker, Minister Mektić did not even bid to inform the Commission that he might have been prevented from coming, which would be acceptable. Ministers have an obligation, and it's perfectly fine that they can't come and send a deputy, but when they make a commitment to come, so that they don't at least inform the Commission that they're not able to come, but simply ignore what they promised, it's not acceptable. I then said, on the Joint Commission, it is impossible to ask questions from the same assistant minister who treated the Commission at the previous session in such a way. We expected the minister in line with his promises and commitments, and he didn't come. And it is truly unacceptable that ministers from the Council of Ministers come here for a pay phone, make explicit promises – here I am asking you, here whenever you schedule this Commission, I will come, and then completely ignore it and not even send a simple explanation that it may possibly be prevented from coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8720	Thank you very much. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8721	Thank you to the chairman. I really don't justify anyone's absence, neither from the committee's session nor from the House of Representatives' sessions. And here, I'm glad the deputy showed up here, since we have the Ministry of Security law. But I think, my colleague Arnaut knows and on the Constitutional Commission we had, and we sent a letter to the Kolegijum, a similar problem. Turns out, Minister Šarović conducted an investigation on the occasion, you know, when the ministries received calls, when our ustavnopravni Law already began a long time ago. And I am asking and using the opportunity, so I don't know if this is the 28th Minister Mektić's call on time, we can answer that only from him, I'm using the opportunity and I'm asking President Zvizdić, the calls from Parliament for committee meetings go on time, they come to the Secretariat, they don't come to you from the Ministry, take care of it because we are really coming to the situation that we are breaking the laws from the agenda of the session because there is absolutely no one from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8722	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8723	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister. I'll do it very briefly. ...knows that, when it comes to the business way the commission itself works, that everything we should have respected. I do not dispute that Minister Mektić said everything he said about the pay phone and I believe that, I suppose, there is certainly a valid reason why he did not come. But I want to say something about the assistant minister who really referred the words of apology to the commission and I think that this has made assumptions that we can talk qualityly about the content of the law itself, because he is something that I think satisfies the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think we should continue to do so. I welcome everyone the apology of the deputy, assistant minister who, in the words of apology to all the members of the Commission, came near, stood up, politely said, simply at one point worked on a man of emotion who put a lot of effort into making this law. And I guess that was one small moment, and we did it all together in the way we did, and I think we had a high-quality Ministry representative who could quite competently answer all the questions that we had regarding the law in question. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8724	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8725	Well, here we are, the chairman, colleague Pandurević and colleague Bojić. You see, you're talking about what happened on the Constitutional Committee when no one from any ministry came as a proposing officer. And now the question is whether they got the calls, didn't they, I don't know, it's a service question. However, at the meeting of the Commission, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which I am talking about, whose report we are considering here today, together with the proposal for a Law on Asylum, has come from the assistant minister of the Ministry of Security. He certainly did not divulge when a session of the Joint Commission, but came at the invitation of the Joint Commission to the Ministry of Security. So, if Minister Mektić didn't know about the call, and his assistant knew, then it shows that Minister Mektić doesn't know what's happening to him at the ministry. And that may be even worse than Minister Mektić going out for that pay phone and saying, "If it's possible at all, I beg you, here's whenever you schedule this commission, I'll be there." It's an explicit concrete promise and a commitment he took for that speaker that he didn't respect on Monday, because not only did he not come, but he didn't send an explanation for why he wouldn't come, and his ministry knew about the session because 29 of the assistants were obviously there, and I say he certainly didn't divulge, but surely it was the Ministry who got the call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8726	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Hazim Rančić. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8727	Thank you very much. I ask and invite respected colleagues and colleagues to stick to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda, which is, in progress, as well as the provisions of Article 112. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of a general debate. We have this Law in our first reading, and I ask all of us to stick to the Rules of Procedure as prescribed, here in Article 112, paragraph 1. – the general debate in the House begins with the first reading on the principles on which the bill is based, the content of the law and the necessity to pass laws in the opinion of the Constitutional and Competent Commission from the first stage. I respect that and that previous relationship and, therefore, I respect that we protect the MP if someone offends him and takes action, and we know last time that we brought it back, that we brought it back. Here, there's been an apology, whether he was a minister, not, okay, I appreciate it all, but we still need to stick to the Rules of Procedure and discuss the principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8728	Thank you very much. Representative Lazar Prodanović reported on the raps. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8729	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers. The SNSD MPs' club will support, therefore, today in the first reading of this proposal, extremely important, as well as the Law on Foreigners which is the next item of the agenda. In view of the overall situation that has shaken all of Europe and the world around the refugee crisis, we have no objections in today's debate. We have a proposal that is important for the promoter,... here Deputy Minister of Security, he refers to a technical question in Article 3 where it is stated that the other police authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, our proposal will be to write – other internal affairs bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the next text, so internal affairs authorities. And that, analoguely, since this is a technical question, quite clearly in accordance with the laws, this, this proposal is in line with our amendment that will depend on the support of the Asylum Act in the second reading. I think that this is the only way we're going to improve this law and the essence of it doesn't change at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8730	Thank you very much. The debate came from Hazim Rančić. Here you go, counsel. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8731	Thank you very much. So here, since the first reading is I want to declare that I too support the principles on which this Law is made. In this area, therefore, we had a law that treated both asylum and the crossing of foreigners and their stay, their movements in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are now in a position in line with European legislation, the Directives of 2001, 2003, 2011, 2013, to edit this area in a way that we have two laws, one on asylum and the other, whether, on the residence and movement of foreigners. Of course, when this law passes, an amendment phase will be opened, and anyone who thinks he can and should be able to fix certain provisions will be in a position, and in this case I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8732	I'd like to thank the representative. Representative Predrag Kožul called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8733	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests of our session today, I warmly welcome you all. Since it's about first reading, I'm not going to be here to give the details that I've come up with here, by reading this Law, I've also found the need for corrections, or amendments that are also technical, but I'm going to warn you of one thing that is unclear to me. In a few articles of the Law, I will specify in particular Article 35(?) mentions one distinction between a minor who is more than 16 years of age who is not in marital status and a minor who is in a marital status or an extramarital community. Me, I don't think there's any difference between a 16-and-a-half-year-old person who's in a marriage community who's not in a marriage community if he's not in a marriage union with 25-year-olds, who can be a guardian and... In fact, if it's two people of 16, and a half who are in the marriage community, I think they're the only ones who need an even greater guardian. So if I'm saying this on the essential side, but I'd like to hear you exist, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know if there's any formal-legal reason to make a distinction between these two types of people. If there is indeed a formal-legal reason to make this difference, then I will not put amendments on these articles. But basically, I'm saying, I don't see any reason, the difference between minors who are in the marriage community, who are not in the marriage community and in terms of this law. So, some other technical and other nature in terms or, if necessary, improvements to the Law I will submit to the amendment phase. But, I'm saying, in order to reduce the number of these amendments or to respond to what I'm saying now, I'd like to hear from the legislator that it really exists within our other legal solutions some form that separates persons who, formally and legally, separates persons in these two statuses, and in one case and another, it's about minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8734	Thank you, counsel. A representative named Hanka Vajzović came forward. Here you go, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, Zaim Backović. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8735	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since I have sworn to this state's Constitution and I fully respect it and do everything I can to make sure that what is constitutionally determined is implemented, I wonder if I am an equal MP in this House of Representatives at all. Point 11. talks about, read what, and at point 11, I was, last time I wanted to do point two or point two, I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8736	Please, Your Honor, we're on point three, we're on point three, you're out, I'm taking your word away. We're on wheel three and don't, leave your question...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8737	The injury is the Rules of Procedure. You gave me my material back.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8738	I didn't return your material. When you come to discuss the matter with the service or with someone, we are on point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8739	...to inform you, right now I'm going to leave the session and more... Because what's called Bosnian grammar... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8740	What does that have to do with this wheel?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8741	... to divide and is related to point 11. ... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8742	Please, we're warning you. Representative Hanka Vajzović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8743	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome. I, no matter what,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8744	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8745	Please don't comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8746	32 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8747	Excuse us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8748	Regardless of the possibility of investing in amendments, and I also think it's good, just maybe two suggestions about this law. One thing is, which can be done without amendments, so distracting, since I find it extremely important, here we get from one law practically two new ones, the situation as it is socio-political gives everyone an obligation to deal with this, it's the laws of both this and that of foreigners, so I only have two suggestions, briefly. That it would be more simple and efficient to apply this law, understand it, I don't think it's a tower done. I don't know, let's say we have a term of faith and we don't have a business incompetent stranger what it means to be termed, not given, or all the terms are, of course, in the nomination, as it is done in the dictionary, and then one comes out of the system, there says – to a member of the prosecutor's family(?). asylum, etc. So, just come more seriously to this member very important to the law itself. And secondly, the second member is the fourth member I'm talking about, that's the use of gender. It says all the expressions in this Law given in men's grammatical gender apply without discrimination and to women. I mean, there's a grammatical gender, it's a natural male race, so it'd be good, here's to put it more seriously, define it. It is a male natural race which then refers to or involves or implies a female person. I mean, grammatical gender is both a table and an object, and all sorts of things. Well, it would be good if it were passed in the law a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8749	Thank you, counsel. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate under point 3. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 07/09/2015. The House College has appointed the competent authorities to consider the above-mentioned Proposal for a Law Joint Commission on Human Rights. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system 06.10.2015. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the principles of 06.10.2015. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH. I don't see any reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8751	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8752	Debate, representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8753	I thank the chairman. Here, I want to say a few words about this addition to the law and actually ask a key question – whether this addition of the law solves, so the addition of the Consumer Protection Act solves the problem we objectively have. So, and we knew it was a loan that couldn't be indexed in any other currency except in the euro, as it stands in the supplemental proposal. Whether this supplement is retroactively solved, whether we can pass laws that retroactively refer to matter that has already suffered what it has suffered, or whether it is a matter that has to be regulated by other laws. What is the role of this Parliament and what are its possibilities here. And I think a few words should be said for that, which represent some begraund, why shouldn't we support this amendment. In 2002, Bosnia and Herzegovina had a Consumer Protection Act that was pretty bad, so at the end of 2005, we received a new Law, which was one of the 16 conditions foreseen by the Performance Study. And that law has shown in a very good way that everyone can have a place in it. So, he properly defined the holders of protection, according to this Consumer Protection Act, and he said, practically in his entire Chapter XVII, from Articles 98 to 116, so he said it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it was the Ombudsman for the protection of consumers defined by this Act, the Consumer Protection Council of BiH, but also the competent bodies of the entity and the Brcko District, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in the Federation and the Republic of Serbia, consumer associations in the RS and the Federation, educational institutions and the media, inspection and other bodies in entities. Since entities had the basis to build their laws under this law and the Federation and Republika Srpska have made their legal and sublaws and today they act in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act that they have brought. What does this law say? Basically, it refers to this particular problem that can happen that not all things that can happen are foreseen in the law, and consumers need to be protected. That is why Article 2 states that it does not refer to cases of consumer protection that are not regulated by this Act, so it says – these are provisions of the Food Act, because we have not written anything and it applies there. So says the Act on general product safety, and it's not defined here either, but somewhere else, some other law. Finally, he says – and the proper provisions of the law governing bond relations. How is the relationship between the service provider – the bank and the recipient of the service, so the consumer? How's he doing? By agreement, by agreement. Now, that agreement regulates several laws. The Republika Srpska Finance Ministry has explicitly sent, it said exactly why it cannot be accepted, because Republika Srpska, apart from having the Consumer Protection Act, cannot be solved by changing the law, but would have to change several laws, which are primarily those relating to financial services, are primarily the Law on Finance, the Law on Banks and the Law on Microcredit Organisations, and the Lising Act. So to get rid of the matter that is the subject of this supplement...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8754	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8755	It would take three laws to, don't I have 10 minutes? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8756	There's been a short discussion for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8757	I didn't really hear that. So, I think, even if we pass this law, we're not going to change anything, but we're going to do a lot of damage. Secondly, we should leave it to those who have jurisdiction to finish this job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8758	Thank you very much. The debate came from Hazim Rančić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8759	Thank you very much. The law is very small. First is reading, three are members and I suggest we support the principles of this Law in the first reading. It also came to us and was delivered to us in the parliamentary procedure and by the Council of Ministers, but also by the conclusion of the House of Representatives, so this House, when we discussed the Central Bank's report, we also referred to the problems of our citizens regarding the credits that are indexed in the Swiss franc, and we know all the problems citizens have. This Law, therefore, says so, and that is the order of things, cannot be applied backwards, retroactively, writes when adopted in the second reading being, yes, it will take effect 8 days after its publication. And such as will not solve the problem of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose loans are indexed in the Swiss franc, of course before the adoption of this Act. But at least it's good to try not to make such a situation for future times and eventually not to be indexed in another currency except in euro. It seems to me that our goal, the House of Representatives, when we debated and voted, was not only to prevent future situations, what we would do if we adopted this Law. It seems to me that we have spoken and that the debate went in this direction that the Council of Ministers is taking steps to protect citizens who have problems with loans indexed in the Swiss franc, such as, let's say, Croatia, how much information we have from the media. Well, if we want to go that way, here's the Council of Ministers can take this into account, and we can discuss it again eventually, and I support this law in first reading because it will prevent these future unpleasant and negative developments for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8760	Thank you, counsel. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević called for the debate. Here you go. But we have a correction to the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. An apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8761	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. I've been thinking about my colleague Majkić's discussion. I just need to say something that I don't think is a problem. Look, really, no one is trying to stop entities from changing all the laws that can protect 35 citizens of that entity from any harmful bank contracts or anyone else. I also don't think that we're going to solve the problem that has already arisen and is present. It is evident that this will refer to future times and some, inability to conclude some new contracts or at least to the banks for some future time. So, I don't see that the problem is that if we pass the Law, which we have the right to, I don't think the principles of this Law are the problem, that constitutional jurisdiction is not the problem, and that this Law does not prevent entities from making solutions that will be solved and what was and what could possibly happen in future times.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8762	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8763	Maybe I don't get it. For example, Article 98 says that entities responsible for consumer protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina are listed. Well, it's not just the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So it's not just the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, there's also the Ombudsman's advice on consumer protection, but the competent entities and bodies of the Brcko District. What does that mean? That they have mechanisms to solve it. How will this be resolved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. how will the foreign trade ministry change the three laws that are on the entity level? How's he gonna do that? The amendment to this Consumer Protection Act is not a solution, we haven't done anything, we've made even more chaos. If there were only a Council of Ministers, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, okay, we wouldn't have anything to talk about. But it's written here how many of them are involved in it. And then in the further part of the law, it was explained what anyone was doing. It's exactly what the Ministry of Economic Relations's task is, what entity parts are. So everyone has their own task as a special member. So we won't get anything if we pass the law unless we create additional problems. That's why I think we're concentrating, that we understand that, because the law is a problem in that part that has very carefully elaborated jurisdiction. It is known that although there is no jurisdiction of the canton, I do not see there, there is no sentence written around the canton, although the minister was from the order of the Croatian people, I believe that he did not do so by accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8764	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, applied for correction of the wrong allegations, and you are also for discussion, regardless of what has come we are keeping track. Now, do you want to remain the correction of the wrong assumption? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8765	I thank the chairman. I've got to fix what my dear colleague Majkić said. It is true that there are even lower levels of government that need to do their job. It's too bad they haven't done it by now. And it's sad that because the entities didn't do the job, or the entity governments didn't do their job, 22 people reached out for the noose. How many more people do you need to kill? This law prevents us from being savaged by a dollar the day after tomorrow, and there is a solution to this situation that has been adopted in the House of Peoples. On the Constitutional Legal Commission it was unanimously adopted, and I welcome that 36 supported by the SNSD, which is the Law on the Conversion of Swiss credits into conversion marks. The Constitutional Commission for the Law was also voted by colleagues Nović, and colleagues Rodić and we hope that the SNSD will remain principled until the end and support the Law until the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8766	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Hazim Rančić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8767	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Majkić said in a previous discussion that by adopting this law we would cause chaos. So we won't cause chaos if this law is passed. And a respected colleague spoke, referred to herself as, like, an explanation and called for Article 92 of that law. 58 of that law. Article 58.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8770	Thank you. No more replicas. The dissension was reported by the chairman, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8771	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. I think we in Bosnia and Herzegovina must look for ways to correct the injustice. So it's not fair, it's not fair for a man to take a loan and later become a slave to that loan his whole life. And what the Council of Ministers did was trace the conclusion adopted by this House on the basis of one information we had here and held a debate. And I think the least we should do today is support the principles of this law. We can, therefore, discuss the various aspects of this Law, including the aspects that are presented here. It is true that the introductory provisions of the Law say that, which do not change, which remain the same, for which we have 37 voted, that all issues which are not governed by this Law should be referred to the Food Act, to the Consumer Protection Act, to the relevant provisions of the Law on Liabilities. So that's what it says. However, here, people are changing Article 52, a new position is being added, starting with a chapter on consumer loans. The terminology used by the Law is a manufacturer, consumer and trader. It's an introductory norm at the beginning. When it comes to consumer credit, it's about a creditor. It is not said whether it is the manufacturer who gives the consumer credit and what is considered a product and service. I think the bank is coming into the sphere because we're talking about bank credits that are indexed and determined to be doing this, what's called, accounting and final in Swiss francs. So that's what we're talking about. So, I think that the people who worked at the Ministry took care of this and the Council of Ministers, and I invite them to study this thing again well and see if it really is, I think it is, therefore, a law which, among other things, regulates the issue of consumer protection when it comes to consumer loans. Consumer credit can be given to the lender. The law says the lender, he doesn't say the manufacturer, and he has the term manufacturer in the law, so that's something, in my opinion, that can be the bank. But let's leave it to the people at the Ministry. Something I want to say specifically, which I was talking about on the Constitutional Commission, so I'm going to finish what Mr. Rančić was talking about. By this law, we solve cases for the future. Therefore, it will no longer be possible in the future to index loans, determine their equivalent except in euro. So no other currency is in question. The law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH". And here are the questions – what about the cases that we decided to make this change? No one else, believe me, whether they bring me this bill or not, will make loans except in euro. People will take good care of it because they're burned, but we need to solve the question of people who've raised their loans so far. Here comes a very important and very important legal issue concerning the so-called the time of the law. I call, therefore, on the Council of Ministers to study this matter well, to look at some solutions from the region as well, to see how in this situation to act until the second stage, to try to install in the Law a provision that would ensure adequate protection and the people in question today. This is a very complex question, about bonding relations, about interest rates, about a lot, a lot of things, so this is a very complex question. I think it's possible that we can solve it with this law and I'm calling, so here we don't have to adopt the law within the time limit that's been set here, in the next 10 days to go to another reading, we can wait until it's investigated, to see how in the context of an existing solution we give protection to the people who have been wronged, who are killing themselves. So people commit suicide because of situations like this. So that's the point and that's what we need to talk about and talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8772	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević called for a debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8773	As previous speakers have already said, it is, therefore, a law that solves certain situations in the future. It doesn't solve the problem we still have. I really need to talk here about the charges we heard on the Constitutional Court that they're being transferred to jurisdiction. In 2006, when the previous Law was passed, it was 16 January 2006, the House of Representatives, from which I conclude that 38 Republika Srpska was defended only by Elmir(?(?) Jahić who voted against this law. I don't know, senior colleagues know. We all agreed to the transfer of jurisdiction, though counterpart Momčilo Novaković was restrained and counterpart Miloš Jovanović, was also an SDS MP, abstentioned, Milorad Živković did not vote, and the others were in favour. So, we do, and here in Republika Srpska's opinion, it states that this law, otherwise the Consumer Protection Act, is not the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that it is brought into force until the Constitutional Court says otherwise. Well, from 2002 to 2015, we had 13 years to launch an appeal before the Constitutional Court and challenge its constitutionality. I am sorry that it is quite obvious that the executive power in Republika Srpska is using a very serious problem and using such bizarre accusations, I can no longer say about the deal with us, but to protect the interest of a bank. That banks are special to them and the footage that just appeared to Mr Milet Radišić, who also talked about some banks there. So I would really ask, the goal is to stop people from reaching out to the worst one, the goal is that these situations don't happen to us anymore, today's Swiss, tomorrow it's going to be a dollar, the day after tomorrow some other currency. I think that we are chosen to protect the interests of those who chose us, not the interests of any bank in this country and that we need above all to be the interests of those we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8774	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8775	Well, I'm really, I'm the last person to defend anyone or any bank for this kind of thing, but I'm the person who wants to be specific and wants to see how he can get out of trouble. I don't want to go up with the ashes and say, "Here's something we did, no matter how many people won't get anything in return." It's not possible by changing this law this way to solve things. That's not possible. I was saying let's see how these things can be solved. If we stand stubbornly behind what we want in this way, whether it makes sense or not, I will remind you, we will follow this case and see what this law has brought. Don't make us promise to the public that we've solved the problem. No, because the key documents that regulate this matter have not been changed. So, the Consumer Protection Act, in 2012, both entities passed their laws. What do they care, they can tell us what we care about this, they have their own laws. At a time when this Law was passed and everyone supported him, he was the only one who accurately defined everything that was whose job it was. So there's nothing in collegiate with that law. But let's see how we can get rid of it first, not keep prolonging it in a way that we can say – if we do what we can do now, even if nothing solves it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8776	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8777	Thank you, gentlemen chairman, and once again I welcome everyone present in the O.R. 39 I understand that this is a very, very complex problem. Of course, we have these two segments in this complex problem, these are banks that are predominantly privatised, or foreign banks that are driven exclusively by business logic and exclusively profit. That commissioner in that bank is not at the level of protection that would be necessary and logical in a business like this. On the other hand, we have people who have been in a situation where they needed money and they've signed contracts without reading those contracts exactly or not, even though they haven't been able to predict what's going to happen, and something that's happened, I think it's a tragedy that happened, right? Just to tell you, just over 2 years ago, the SBB MPs' club in the Federal Parliament initiated a debate on this problem, where the debate was attended by representatives of the Banking Agency and other representatives of the banking sector who persistently defended their positions, regardless of these dramatic circumstances that arose, as counterpart Pandurević, said various suicides, people went out on the street, on the road, left out of nowhere, and there was no end to that drama. We can't solve it, I'm sure, and I guess this Dom thing can't solve it right now. But what can he do? It can send a clear signal that everything that has been done has not been done in accordance with the law, and in that sense, I understand this Law that we are thus determined, and that, I am sure, given that it is a very complex problem, that the authorities will take care of the people as well as the banks of accounts, because they are not the banks alienated part of the people, estranged part or that the law protected institutions in this country are able to do what they are doing. Each bank will have to, and anywhere in the world, every committee bank warns of possible problems that may arise from a credit application. That doesn't happen with us, and even when I took the loan, of course I didn't take this loan in Swiss, but when I took the loan, I was never warned, I only got an answer to the question I was asking, and I was never warned as a committee that some problem might happen to me. It's the bank's duty to do it, they didn't do it. We don't have a lot of opportunities to do anything here, because I know after this debate in the Federal Parliament, there has been a further tightening and harmonisation of the situation and the situation is really extremely difficult. We can't help these people directly, but you have to hear the voice of this tall home, what we think about it all, and what our relationship is that, if anything else, to at least prevent people from going astray by the fact that, here's the proposal for this law no longer has the possibility of the credit being understood in a way that it's tied to this credit clause, to the ino clause. So I want to say that the SBB Club will support this proposal in this first reading, and we will see until this debate is over whether or not we will have any other proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8778	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8779	Madam Chairman, esteemed chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues, fellow Members. I have, therefore... a good intention not to have what we wanted to solve in the future or to get rid of this law. But I'm afraid running around here or shooting a bear won't hit a fly. And the administration of counterpart Džaferović when he said this is the intention to warn future cases, and a very negative practice from the past will not force people to enter 40 credit arrangements they have entered. It's been trying to deal with the same problems in the past, but the relationship between the client and the bank is a bonding relationship. The fact that there was no education in banks, as we warn, is often brought into a political relationship here without solving the problem. And that is why I am a supporter and this attitude to be given a suggestion to the Council of Ministers to take as much time as it takes to study this problem and to see how it can be helped for people who have been raising loans in Switzerland, and to offer legal solutions that will warn it in the time ahead. I know how complex this problem is and that's why... There's nothing we can do today if we fight here, they're for those of you who took out the loans, the others are for a heads-up, etc. So this debate doesn't lead to anything, let it be done professionally, learn. There is not much positive practice for the bonding relationship between the client and the bank. These are things that are being dragged forever. And that's why I think it would be good for this to be further studied, if we're working on the law to solve the problem, the law for the sake of the law won't solve things. If there is a misunderstanding
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8780	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8781	Let's get them straight, so they don't send false hopes again. Guys, it's not an election. These people we're all talking about today need help, and they're not helped by a law that won't let them make a mistake in front of us, how to solve what's behind them. It's complicated, it's a very complex problem and I'd like to see the masters who will work on the law and find a legal solution that will solve this problem. But I don't mind if we try and give... To the Council of Ministers to study him, offer an act,...to discuss them. It's easy for us to pass the law today. I don't know what we're going to do. So no one who's a.../microphone MP turned off/...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8782	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8783	Thank you very much. Here's how much I wanted to support...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8784	Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8785	Thanks again. Well, of course I have to admit that my colleague Špirić is here on his field, given that he's an economic profession, but I want to say this. As some countries have solved this problem, let Bosnia and Herzegovina solve it. How did Croatia solve how Hungary solved it? They solved the problem, if anything, shared the responsibility between the committee and the bank. I think Serbia is on its way to solving this problem. It is only untouchable in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it must not be discussed, and nothing must be done. On the contrary, I think the condition of a positive signal will make things happen, and let the Council of Ministers do their job and find adequate mechanisms to solve the problem if they can, and those who are in charge of Swiss and to experience a tragedy that I would not wish for anyone. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8786	Thank you. The word is represented by Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8787	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have to say, in principle, this is a law that is exclusively in the function of a political story. Here's why. He has only two members, there is no citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who from today or from a month ago, unless he wants to gamble, has decided to take a consumer loan, here is a representative of the proposing who said this exclusively applies to consumer loans, so we do not solve the problem either in the future, to take a loan that would be in which the currency clause would be, and if he wants the cube not to be told about the Swiss franc and the tragedy of the people to whom the tragedy occurred in BiH. Let's not forget that for the last year and a half, the dollar has grown compared to KM close to 30%. So we're not dealing with anything with this, including Article 127n, which provides for sanctions. So we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, do not have fiscal sovereignty. If we were at least like Hungary, insolent, 95% of the banking sector that's on the side, so what's foreign capital, would be limited at least by a percentage of interest rates on any loan. What fiscal sovereignty we have in that regard. And don't fool the people, it doesn't take any law here to make anyone fully aware that just now, it's unnecessary to write in euros at all, it's quite clear that KM is absolutely and exclusively related to the nominal value of the euro. So, we do not achieve anything with this Law in any sense as a story, nor is there a bank that will say that it enters into, therefore, a bonding relationship in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act, but in accordance with the Banking Act, with the Microcredit Organisations Act, which is another major disaster for citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the Lising Act, so it will be called upon, and only such a contract would no one today sign it, even though some happiness would bring about a possible decline in the value of a currency, which is impossible in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree, so right now I have to say we're against this law for these reasons, no story whatsoever. I also advocate that we must insist that the executive power as, therefore, representatives of those who have to enforce what legislation is doing at all levels, resolve this issue. This area is an entity's jurisdiction, but let's not forget, in every assembly, every MP has the right to urgently propose amendments to the law so that this area is better arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8788	Thank you very much. Correction of the false quote Špirić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8789	Madam Chairman. I find it difficult to use this option from an application except a false quote or a debate, but I do not dispute that the intention of all of us here is to solve one problem. It is now an assessment of whether we will resolve it through this Consumer Protection Act. I'm convinced we won't. But if you're serious about solving it, let's study it and offer the law to lex specialise just for that problem. This seems to me 42 much more concrete to address these people's problems, and let's think about amending the Consumer Protection Act... solving problems in the future, but we will not solve this problem by the Consumer Protection Act. Don't hide in public, there's a problem, I've been dealing with this problem and I haven't been able to solve it, believe me. I talked to the banks, you can't get them by law, they'll get you in court, so it's a bonding relationship, we insisted on banks to try to solve this problem together with their clients. Okay, there's no solution, but come on now, let's not prejudge, let's say here's the Council of Ministers is in one chamber to offer the law of lex specialis and to respect all the problems and to solve what happened. Through this Law, we will lead people astray and will not solve any problems. And here I agree with my colleague Lazar and everyone else, so it's the same intention to everyone we're discussing, not to blame people now, the problem exists, we just don't think they'll be solved through the amendments and additions to this law, through this Law. And if we already associate with the law, I invite, brother, people to offer the law that solves it and I think it's going to be under heavy obligation. How did they solve other countries? Some put off the problem, some partially tried to solve it. So it's not a simple problem to solve these solutions that are offered in the law. Here, only in that mercy, so we all understand the problem, but come on if we're determined to solve it,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8790	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8791	Here you are, people, working on it, offering two variants that we're going to talk about, or three of which we're going to talk about. I know it's going to be a difficult task, an almost impossible mission, but okay, let's try it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8792	The word has a representative, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8793	I thank the chairman. Proposed by a debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission and the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which both discussed this proposal, where SNSD colleagues made huge efforts to challenge the constitutionality of this proposal, namely to claim that it was the transfer of competence from entity to state, I was specifically prepared for that part, to show that they were wrong and to defend the competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course Mr Đonlagić was in charge of this part, to stress once again that we would support this bill because we believe it is important. However, Mrs Pandurević has already done this constitutional part in a maestro and has defended those powers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I really congratulate her on that, congratulating her on the responsible attitude towards the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the competencies of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Parliament. I only wish your party colleague, Mr. Mektić, had shown the same responsibility by keeping the promises he made to us. But I consider myself, no matter what Mrs Pandurević has already finished this constitutional part of me, I consider it necessary to take part in the debate, given what even three colleagues have said today, and explicitly, that no one will ever take credit in Swiss francs or any other currency again. I think that such sentences show a lack of awareness of citizens' problems and can freely say separation from those citizens and their problems. People when confronted, citizens, the vast majority of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina when faced with a situation where the vast majority of these citizens are not asking which currency is the credit. Many don't know, here's how 43 Mr. Đonlagić spoke, many don't know, haven't been informed. But most importantly, people don't ask. If someone offers them credit in Swiss francs, most people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the problems they are in, will take it, because it may be the only way to feed the family that month. According to this, to argue that this does not solve the problem in the future, we all agree that it does not solve the problem of those who have already taken it, and therefore we have a proposal at the House of Peoples, will come once and for this House, I guess the Council of Ministers is doing the same thing to solve the problem of those who have previously taken it. But don't invalidate this proposal and go to the hands of those who dispute the constitutionality of this law by saying that no one will ever take credit in Swiss francs again, because it gives them the right to not need the law. You need the law just for this reason that people will take credit in every currency if it might be the only way to feed the family that month. And that is why this law is necessary, and therefore this Parliament needs to be made clear today that this will no longer be possible, so that none of these people who are in such a situation, in which they are, will be able to take credit anymore and not ask which currency they are in. So I really don't think it's responsible that you don't feel sorry for the citizens, that you're not at least trying to put yourself in their position, understand their problems when you say it so non-chalantly -- no one in their right mind will ever take credit in Swiss fans again. Now I say again people when they are forced against the wall do not ask which currency is in which currency and therefore it is absolutely necessary to adopt this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8794	Thank you very much. The word is represented by Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8795	Well, my colleagues in front of me said almost everything I was going to say, but since I still can't undo my application for a hearing, I'm going to say a few words. Here's what I'm going to tell my colleague Arnaut like that, that I don't agree with my colleague, Prodanović, that no one will ever take these loans again. Namely, the human nature is immutably two things – that brooch forgets and loves money. And because of these two things you'll quickly forget about these current problems and people, wanting to come up with cheap money, will re-enter some adventures other relatively fast. So I think that this matter especially at a time when, in the present time when, among other things, the currency will be unstable, it needs to be arranged for the future, for at least the future medium-term period of this matter in a way that doesn't happen to us the things that have happened to, exactly, the Swiss. I mean, the extra head doesn't hurt, so maybe it's good to regulate it through this law, but this is a very partial solution. And then I will join what counterpart Špirić said needed a lex specialis law that would define this thing for all credits, not only of consumers, but of investment loans, not only of natural persons, but also of loans to legal persons, so comprehensively. And if the Council of Ministers wishes to resolve this problem for a future time, it is necessary to think about such a solution, because if nothing else this Law will pass, and until I have carefully read the provisions of the existing Law this morning, I would at least at the level of this Law or these amendments and the addition of the Law say that let's think about whether Article 53 of this Law should be abolished. The law which reads - the provisions of this Chapter do not apply to credit agreements whose purpose is to purchase, rent or renovate real estate. I don't know the structure of current Swiss loans, but I believe that most of these loans apply to article 53 of this Act and I don't see any reason why it's not spending either. So the proposal to the Proposer, because through amendments, since I did not, I did not look at the matter as a whole, 44 Proposer can, the Proposer's proposal to consider whether another article would be added to the amendment and supplementation of this Act to which he would be told – Article 53 of the Law and is repealed. Then this will be a slightly less partial solution and, I say, there will be a solution to the trail of the excess head not pain if it is defined and lex specialis law that will define all future loans with the currency clause, and I am sure that for at least one medium term due to the apparent instability of everything in the world, including the currency, it should be brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8796	Thank you very much. Since the esteemed representative commented that he was going to give up the debate, it means that in addition to your name, you have an X-File and by clicking on it you simply give up the application you signed up for.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8797	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8798	Yeah. Thank you very much. We have an update on the wrong allegations, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8799	I thank the chairman. Refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Kožul, I would like to thank my colleague for supporting me on this allegation that no one will ever take credit in Swiss fans again. But it's not just Mr. Prodanović, uh, three, even three of our colleagues have claimed it today, I've reported it after the third time, and from the position and from the opposition, they know exactly who they are, I don't like names, but don't fool yourself with it, so don't underestimate the importance of this law by saying that no one will ever, perhaps you will, but I say when not you, but maybe you won't here, but when citizens face it whether or not they have to eat it will take it no matter what currency it is offered to them and our obligation is here and our task to prevent them from being offered such things at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8800	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8801	The chairman, I apologize, uh, for using it, there's nothing absolutely, so, but it's a relatively small statistical data that's supposed to be interesting for the state, but it wants me to get right, it wants to take it without any problems, even with a currency clause that doesn't change anything, you know when? When someone guarantees to take the risk of possible compensation for that risk. Like, the view now, did we bring, uh, the law on, say, the banking sector's obligations not to ask as a priority request through the insurance bond, the raising of loans through the giraffes. Is it normal for the country to be seniors in relation to the assets of the borrower? 45 Now look at the statistics, now, this year, 2015, what number of giranates is compared to 2005 or 2001, that's less than 5%. And you know what category is used, the so-called risk risk insurance by policy through insurance houses. So, don't deceive the public. I mean, I don't think any of this convinced me, it's quite clear when I'm going to take, all of us, more than half of us remember the period of the previous state when someone could take credit for hundreds of thousands of times as much as he was, now it's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8802	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8803	Thank you. Well, I'm really sorry that one man, who's extremely correct, is here, I need to replicate. This isn't about fooling the people at all, I think this is what we're sending a clear message to the people about what we think about the Swiss loan, of course, by respecting what my colleague Kožul said. So, I know very well all the percentages relating to the functioning and business of microcredit organisations, as well as all of these relations of giranates, and these credits in Swiss, I am very well aware of that because I've been doing a good study of the circumstances. But please, someone has to send a clear message to those that they can no longer behave as he did, even though he has been blindly keeping those bonds behind which they are hiding, but every contract must be made with good intentions and in good interest that both participants in this process will be maximumly protected. This was not done here, it must be acknowledged, the banks are in this particular case maximumly privileged and protected. For what reason I don't know, they don't operate at all as banks interested in the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are particularly interested in each individual as a pure statistical number and the possibility that they can make some income and this small population as much as there is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8804	Thank you. The word is represented by Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8805	Madam Chairman, my goal is to really help. So it's not the goal of having some debates that have no solution. I'm interested, here's a proposal from the Council of Ministers, does this law solve the case that happened? Is he working it out? It doesn't solve, let's not argue that we're going to solve, it doesn't solve what happened, and that's the problem. It's not a problem, so I understand the intention to define the rules of the game in the future, but we can't challenge the right of banks to define their products and bring them to the market, that's binding law. Now, there are those who say, there are those who didn't know, there are who said we didn't know, etc., there's been a problem. If this law solves the problems of old foreign exchange savings in Swiss I will support it. And what if he doesn't solve it? That's why I'm asking the Proposer if he's working it out. No, I don't. How did they solve other countries? Hungary took the burden of the state. Okay. Can we do that if we solve that problem? I'm just saying it's a much more complex problem than changing the Consumer Law, gentlemen, so a lot 46 more complex. I won't argue that everyone has a good intention of solving it. I'm asking if it solves the problem we have, now we're not talking about problems that can arise. I ask the Proposer - was it his intention to resolve this by law? If it is, I have to say, they know little about this. This is a much more serious problem than our palitative debates are what the citizens want. Whether he takes the loan or he won't, it's his right, and don't let us twist it, said he's not going to reach anyone. Maybe they will, how do we know, your right to be free, like the freedom of banks, we don't have those banks that won't take their products to the market. So we want some special banking in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, it's a much more complex and deeper problem than we're catching on to here. And that's why I said, on the trail that fellow Šefik was saying, give the Council of Ministers to study him, if he can solve this problem okay, let's make a full-scale solution, maybe not through this Law, I don't know if this Law... I'm just saying whether it's not the most important thing right now, or whether it's solved or not. I think, gentlemen, he's not working it out, and all we can do is open the story and this law won't solve the problem we have. Here, that's all I want to warn you about, and I'm not even gonna raise my hand for an empty story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8806	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović came forward for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8807	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At a session where the Constitution is not respected, here I will speak, the basic act of this state, but we who have sworn to the Constitution are obliged to respect it and I will do so. The Consumer Protection Act is something that treats entirely other matter and cannot be tied, nor in any segment can it be tied to a lex specialis or the Banking Act. There is no law on banking business in any country, nor in the EU, if you didn't know, and even in the negotiations that we're doing, we'll only have one act, it's something that is interbank integration and signed, it's the bazelski Convention on Banking Business, it's the law that banks behave under. People here seem to ignore that it exists and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of the Basel Banking Convention. Like tomatoes on the free market, I have to compare it like that, and so is money on the free market. Tomatoes at one market of 1.50, on the other 2,50 marks, so it's up to you from the bank to the bank depending on the type of product they offer. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you, Nikola. I know this very well. And I'm sorry that we got involved in something that doesn't give us a solution. Croatia, as you can see, is now trying to find a solution these days. So what's up? It has all over Europe, the Council of Europe is meeting because it violates the fears of the free market in banking. None of us make weapons take the product of a bank, as you take the product now in this centurion across from us, I don't know whose, this center as it's called, so you know whose, I see you waving your head, so you know whose, at that center there, in three stores, the same product is different prices, the exact same product, three stores of three different prices. Therefore, we must here, when 47 is about what this was meant to be, and it is a complement to the protection of consumers, take it, it is the easiest, exceptional law in the course of the accession process made by Croatia, we have it on the Internet, we have a copy of the page, of course we will need translators, in the future I will really look for a translator here, some words when Mrs. Chairman is speaking I do not understand, so I will have to look for a translator, because I do not understand some words, because my language will not be shared to see that there is I will look for a translator for certain words.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8809	You have a warning, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8810	Well, on the agenda, I'm talking about the Consumers Act, about consumer protection, but I'm saying some words I don't understand, so I'm going to have to ask them to translate. We must bring things to the Consumer Protection Act, which means the behavior of those who are in the chain from the moment the goods enter our country to the ultimate buyer. So we have this screen in front of us, I'd like to look for our offers now so that you see, since it says that the manufacturer "Cončar", to see the prices of Končar, Panasonic, LG, Phillips, Grunding, Bekov, and we'll see how different that is, and we won't be able to say by law that it's the same everywhere, and you'll decide on that product... and I recommend... since I see that no one has read the Basel Convention... and will realize how little we have the influence of any.../off microphone to the MP/...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8811	Yeah, time's up. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8812	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8813	The word has a representative, Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8814	Thank you very much. I don't want to get into some controversy with respected colleagues and colleagues, but by listening to their discussions, I can't take that impression to say that both in our legal system and in the state as it is, of course, there are legal ones, or we can say, here's the economic or bonding institutes as generally accepted everywhere in the world, and that's to say there's an institute of forbidden damage across half, or it's undeniable that in bonding relations there should be a relationship of equality and equality and proportionality in taking and giving, it's one of the basic postulates. And if someone gives you 10,000 credit marks, is it logical that you give it back to him or I don't know 20 or 25 thousand marks in a certain period of time? So there are legal institutes that could be used, I'm convinced, in the direction of protecting our citizens who are unfortunately surviving hell by returning loans indexed in the Swiss fan. Of course, I'm also aware that it's not easy to deal with banks, because you go there as an ordinary citizen and you have huge banks with machinery, with money, with expensive lawyers and everything that goes with banks, and it's much easier for them to handle and delay these long-term litigation than an individual. So it's hard for an individual to get a bank, but that's why the state and its notifications can and should be in the role of protecting citizens. 48 This Law will not solve the problem that we have discussed since April when we discussed the Central Bank's Information and when we have reached the conclusion that we are all unanimously, unanimously, tasked by the Council of Ministers to take action to protect our citizens. This law will not be retroactively applied, it is clear to all of us, and it will not solve the problem, it is an undeniable matter, but it will for the future. What would I like as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I would not like to defend the interests of the banks, because they certainly can and know better than we do, but I would like to have banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with EU directives, with European property law, that the same banks that come either from Germany, or from Austria, or from Russia, or from Italy, or from France, or from Britain, here in Bosnia and Herzegovina behave in the same way or about the same way they behave in their own countries. When they determine interest there, it is 1% or 2%, and okay, they say that we are a little bit more risky, one of which we do not decide who gets credits than their managers who have large salaries, right, two, here and to respect that risk difference in Bosnia and Herzegovina in their countries, they say it is 20%, so if interest is 2% in their country, in the EU, 20% difference is 0.40 means interest would be in Bosnia and Herzegovina here because of that risk should be 2.40. And what bank does he have it in? When they judge us they say you're not good guys, you're bad guys, your ratings are bad, etc., and then everyone rushes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, takes the banks and establish their own and then gives us interest loans. Well, we're responsible for not taking action and laying down rules, so let them come and act. Here, I call on us to apply the rules of legal property of Europe to limit the work of banks in the same way they did. And in their countries they deal with crime, you see, and a billion fines are paid, and only we speak cannot, we cannot, we cannot. We can if we want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8815	Thank you very much. We will yet to find out for everyone else, the esteemed representative Rančić had another debate, it was not our monitor registered, for all future reasons we are, of course, keeping an account outside the monitor, that it is known. And I'd like to ask the staff who are leaving the session to check out because we need the number and the records for the presence, or quorum. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Only before that if the minister doesn't want to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Nothing. Thank you very much. We move to the point of the five Proposals for a Law on Foreigners – Proposer: Council of Ministers __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8819	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I've been reading this law thoroughly, and I've prepared it, because I have a lot of objections, and I've prepared myself for a ten-minute discussion, so I'm going to improvise like this, try it in about five minutes. So we have before us very important, in my court, and more important than the previous Asylum Act, given, here's the movement, the events, and I think we need to pay a lot of attention to it. We have also had experience since about 14 years, since 2001, when the High Representative adopted the first such Law, the one that we have now divided into two, and then the Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum, amendments, additions, mostly we have experience and regardless of the commission, or whoever it is, the working group that held this Law did not have a very simple and easy task ahead of us. I won't look back on all the members I've singled out here, I've got a lot of objections, but I'm going to start with the name of the law itself. In my court he was not adequately chosen, the Foreign Law. I think you should rely on Article 1 where you edit the subject of the law, it went too far here. Since I have been reviewing and reading, let's say, since this is the Foreign Law and by term definition a stranger is a person who is not a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it seems to me that one category is missing, it seems to me that this is not covered and that one major question remains what is with, let's say, our diaspora, whether they are foreigners. If we come from this definition, are foreigners the ones who, by resolving their own status in other countries, have quit their citizenship. By definition they are foreigners, by some other parameters they certainly are not. There are other cases. Therefore, in this respect, in my court, it should rely on this Article 1 where the case is, and it should be, as soon as possible, the entry, stay and supervision. That's three things he does. I have my comments on article 24. The fake must be taken away, it is said, and it is not said what is necessary, it cannot actually enter a stranger who has a forged document, but it is not said that he needs to take it away. Article 24(2) where a foreigner may be refused entry. And this is an illustration of how necessary it would be to search this law in multiple directions. It's said that if he's already spent his time in the territory, I've got some kind of castle, something's going on. So I'm reading a member that points to the necessity of a re-examination of this text, to pay attention. What is inadmissible is that the Law is unclear, that it is not precise, that it is not both linguistic and substantively applicable, clear enough to be applicable. He says, if he has already spent, it is taken away, it may be refused entry, if he has already spent on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory 90 days in any period, from 180 days which implies 50 days taking into account the period of 180 days preceding each day of stay, and it is a citizen of the state of visa-free regime, unless, etc. I'm afraid even whoever wrote this text isn't sure what he was going to say. Article 26 very similar, says and here is defined, instead of where the definitions are, the definition of a visa is given in this article, and then it is said – a visa can be issued to a foreigner who owns a passport, who must be valid for at least three months after the planned date of departure, etc., that there are two pages of empty and junk, and then says – may not, in justified emergency cases, or if it requires reasons of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, humanitarian, serious, professional and personal reasons, and nowhere is it prescribed what are humanitarian, what can be personal and who assess it. Is this a long time ago for me? I'm sorry, I'm a little confused with someone, it's probably lunchtime, so there seems like there's no reason why I'm taking this any further, maybe an amendment. I'm sorry I'm sick today, but if you'll excuse me, it's an 119 because it's very important. It seems to me, here is the word – supervision, he deals, period of determination and extension of supervision. Here's the word "control" obviously in the function of euphemism for detention. I'm turning my attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8820	It's still time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8821	I'm sorry, I'm just drawing attention to this extension, there's no two-stage thing, it's about that Abu Hamza, or who's been prescribing here for seven years and a half. And, uh, I'm ready in ten minutes, there's a lot of objections, thank you, and I rushed... and here are the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8822	Thank you very much. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8823	One more time, thank you, Madam Chairman. Not wanting to get into the whole analysis of this law and of course not wanting to doubt at all whether or not we need the law, we need the law. Like my friend, I'll say more to a friend than to a colleague and respected Mrs. Vajzović, I'll agree with a lot of things, with a few things, though, or people saying the real French, you know, we pretend to be naive or we want to be people who know more than others. A stranger is a face, and then truly amazing, which is not a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, he won't be a foreigner to BiH, that's, I guess he's a foreigner who's not a citizen of this country. It's a definition that makes no sense. But then, according to what he says, he is not a citizen of BiH, according to the latest television reports, so that everyone understands me, and the reports, we have several hundred, even measured that several thousand are uninformed in the parent books and domestically born in this country. Well, since they're not citizens, then they're strangers. Again I say - where are we going, what is our goal? Is this our way to Europe or do we want to make laws now and then have a lot of work to do in negotiations to change these laws? 51 I mentioned family law here. Republika Srpska was smarter so the family law corrected compared to what was imposed on us by the Office of the High Representative. The Federation adopted what the High Representative imposed. Now I get the feeling that this bill or whoever did this law has consulted a larger number, I don't know what else, in all this fear of refugee attacks, refugees, exiles, and we get one, a papacy that will finally be difficult to apply. Let me just back this up, and then I'll go back to the member of this thing that I'm talking about. Few people know, even the judiciary won't apply it, and I've now made one appeal, I ask to be told why it isn't applied, because it says that in the succession order after, I say, father, children, women, sisters, aunts, amids, aunts, their children, their wives and children, translated Finnish law. And we in family law have Finnish legislation, which is not applicable in our country's traditional law, inapplicable. That's how it happens in this law. And I recommend that the Proposer just do it again, recently this law has been passed by the Republic of Serbia, brought by Montenegro and they have it. Well, since these are different languages, one we already have is the Republic of Serbia – Serbian, Montenegrin is not recognised with us, so we will translate it into Croatian and Bosnian, and in an hour we have passed a law where definitions are very precise, where the statuses are very precise. I don't know how much you know, an example - you have the right to stay for up to three months, a day if you exceed those three months, say the Holandija state forbids you to enter, as soon as it forbids you, you are banned from the EU for five years. Five years, one day late at the border to verify the passport in such order. That's why I propose to the Proposer that this law be a little more subtle...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8824	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8825	to rewrite, thank you for the warning, I end up, a little bit more subtle and not to suffer, so Croatian, Serbian, Montenegrin, let's take it, rewrite it, translate it into these three languages that we all have to understand and adopt quality law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8826	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. We're moving on to point six, but I have a suggestion. We tried to consult at the College and make consultations with clubs at the House of Representatives. There's a variant that we don't take a break, since the rest of the points, in some way, reports, etc., so... let's have a debate, we finish the session early, or we can take a break and it'll be too short and we'll continue to talk after half an hour. [[Common discussion]] Shall we continue, shall we? We're continuing the session. Anyone who comes out for a while can, of course, come out only in a way that doesn't endanger the quorum. We're going to point six, 52 Ad. Six. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražica (the law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8830	I thank the chairman. The SBB Club will not support an emergency procedure, given the many other errors that are noticeable, however, I have submitted an amendment in the event that the House accepts the request of the Constitutional Commission to discuss this by an urgent procedure, that at least correct that error which can be made in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. that is the only point when amendments are allowed, when something is discussed by an emergency procedure. I am taking this opportunity to explain my amendment, although it does not require any particular explanation, you all have it in front of you, and an integral part of that argument is the Opinion of the legislative and legal sector of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that Article 3(2) does not comply with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules. What is even more important, however, is that the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure would lead to a chaos in the Rules of Procedure. And what has been confirmed by the legislative and legal sector of this BiH Parliamentary Assembly in order for the Rules of Procedure to become inapplicable for the purpose of renumbering certain members, and this is not done when these members, whose renumberation has been made, refer to other members of the Rules of Procedure. So you have examples that the legislative sector has stated, in the new Rules of Procedure, if certain members were deleted, let's say in one Article 152, it would be said as pointed out in Article 190 and then in the new Rules of Procedure you would go to Article 190 and see that it deals entirely with one other matter. In any case, as wood and court, as this example, as a series of other examples. It is truly amazing that mistakes like this are repeated. If I hadn't reacted today, 53, and after that, we were divided, it would probably have been concluded that the community in which nuclear waste is intended to be deposited in the Drava. But we'll talk about it later. Anyway, so another mistake right here. We will not support an emergency procedure, given that there are more mistakes, but if the House accepts the Constitutional Commission's request that this be considered by an emergency procedure, then this amendment corrects that error, the only one that can be fixed, when something is considered by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8831	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure were submitted in procedure 31.08.2015. The House College has appointed him responsible for his consideration of the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the Constitution and the legal system and principles 06.10.2015. The Commission established the consistency of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure with the Constitution and the legal system, but did not support its principles. I'm opening a debate. Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8833	Thank you. As a promoter, therefore the Constitutional Commission did not support the principles, the vote was 2 for, 2 against and 2 abstentions, which did not require a majority to support the principles of this Amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which I have referred to, concerning the erasure of the provision of Article 13(2), which states that an immunity law, inter alia, is mandatory in the parliamentary legitimacy. Therefore, all MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have parliamentary, i.e. delegation, which, in certain cases, can cause confusion, and possibly even abuses, if someone were to use that parliamentary, or delegate card, to avoid punishment, for example. for some traffic violation, etc. Especially since these MPs also contain text requiring all competent authorities to provide all the necessary assistance to the holder of the legislation. The BiH Constitution and the Immunity Law are extremely clear on the issue of immunity rights. Immunity law applies only to acts carried out within the framework of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which in practice means what someone says about a pay phone here or in one of the committees, and immunity law, or the existence of one is determined by the competent court if someone in 54 calls for that immunity and the competent court determines it by considering, among other things, whether at the time when the act was allegedly committed was an MP, i.e. a delegate in the Parliamentary Assembly, whether the act allegedly committed in the course of its duties in the Parliamentary Assembly, etc., etc. In any case, the competent court does not require a person to present parliamentary legitimacy, does not refer to what is written on parliamentary legitimacy in making his decisions, which absolutely concludes that the text on immunity in parliamentary legitimacy is completely excessive, unnecessary, opens up opportunities for abuses, and, I say, is also not possible only abuses, it is possible to simply misunderstanding of the extremely limited nature of this immunity right to be called upon in acts for which immunity rights do not exist objectively, for example. If stopped for a traffic violation, which may be just the most banal example or even for some serious acts. And that this immunity right is called upon by an official who has no jurisdiction to decide on the existence or absence of immunity rights, so on behalf of a police officer, etc., because only the court can determine whether immunity rights exist and under what circumstances. On the Constitutional Legal Commission, the only objections that have been made, except for some who have said that this should be widely approached by amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but I do not take this seriously, given that we have just finished with a point that has been partially amended by the Rules of Procedure. So, the only essential remarks that have been made on the Constitutional Commission are that some terminology should be changed, etc. It's for the amendment phase. So we're talking about the principles of the proposal today in the first reading. And that is why I call on my colleagues to reject the Constitutional Commission's opinion, to return this to the Constitutional Legal Commission for review, because here today it is debated exclusively on principles. And the only principle that is being discussed here is whether MPs want to write to them on parliamentary IDs an immunity law that is unnecessary, excessive and allows abuses or situations where there might be an unintended, but inappropriate, regardless of the use of parliamentary legislation for the purpose of calling for immunity, which is objectively not in the given situation. So again, the only principle that we are pleading today is whether the MPs want their parliamentary legislation to indicate that they have some immunity. It is an elitist approach, an legacy of old times, unnecessary in today's society and, in any case, excessive. For this reason, I call on my colleagues to reject the Constitutional Commission's opinion, to return to the review because it is about principles, and everyone who disagrees with certain terminology, there is a second stage to table amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8834	Thank you. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights On 31 July, the Joint Committee delivered the draft Code in the procedure. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. The Rules of Procedure, which are responsible for considering that proposal, have been designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 15 September 2015 and the proposal for a code was adopted. 55 Amendments to the Proposal for a Code were submitted by representatives from the SBB Club – four amendments, Nikola Lovrinović – seven amendments, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica – two amendments, Borisal Bojić – two amendments and Predrag Kožul – one amendment. In the previous 17th session of the House, held on 16 September, all amendments submitted at the House session were decided to be addressed to the draft Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for consideration of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which should be made evident within ten days and delivered to the House. The Joint Commission delivered Opinion 06.10.2015 adopted by eight amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following Rules of Procedure submitted amendments to the Proposed Code of Conduct of Representatives and Representatives: Nikola Lovrinović submitted three amendments on 06.10., Borislav Bojić 07.10., two amendments and representatives from the SBB Club submitted one amendment. I'm opening a debate on the Code Proposal. Representative Borisalv Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8836	A few sentences about the Codex. Here, after a long debate and a large number of amendments submitted, the Joint Commission has set out the proposal for a code and I believe that, let me say, we have achieved the necessary level of consent in order for the Codex to be passed. I'll just say one sentence about the amendments I suggested. Amendment I, which you already have on display, therefore, in the Proposal for Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in Article 22 paragraph 2 e) adds a new point (f) which reads as follows: – Procedure contrary to Article 17. Codex. I don't think an additional explanation is necessary because here, when we examined, therefore, the final version of the Codex, we found that this kind of change is something that is necessary. As for amandman ii, I am giving up on the second amendment because I believe that what the SBB has proposed is more correctly done, so we simply come up with a solution which, in my opinion, is something that solves this question that has been done in a way that we didn't simply notice in the overall design of the Codex itself. Let me also give a few reasons where the Commission has rejected amendments that are now being tabled by a respected colleague, Lovrinović. We have indeed made sure in the Commission to look at all the amendments that have been very much made by colleagues Lovrinović and some of them have indeed been adopted and installed, i.e. they have already become an integral part of the proposal for the Code. And before my colleague Lovrinović gives further explanations, I am obliged to say why the Commission has not accepted the amendments he is now repeating at this session, so I hope it will not be a problem. Therefore, the amendment proposal relating to Article 5. The proposal for a code of reasoning states that unnecessarily listing the occurrence of a part of prejudice and discrimination because it is always a danger that some forms of discrimination remain, as he himself stated, disability, etc., etc. I just want to say that the Joint Commission has not accepted the above-mentioned amendment because it is in accordance with Article 24. The law prohibiting discrimination, you have it in the law itself, practically all these phenomena practically counted. Therefore, Article 2(2) of this Act decides what is considered discrimination, i.e. any other treatment including any exclusion, restriction on any person or group, as regards race, religion, gender, nationality, age, marital status, sexual orientation, social and property position, and any diversity, respecting and protecting human rights and freedoms, and as stated in practice in Article 5 of this 56 of the Code. It's prescribed by the Law that we need our Code of Conduct to comply practically with what we've already adopted, when it comes to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. As for the second amendment, the Joint Committee on Human Rights did not accept the amendment by Mr Lovrinović, which concerns Article 7, which also refers to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I've already given an explanation about this previous one, it's the same explanation for this other one, that I'm not taking the time. And the third amendment of the Joint Committee on Human Rights also did not accept because it refers to Article 23(2) – the application may be submitted by a MP or a delegate if it is not part of any club, chairing the club of both homes and the College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. The reason for not accepting is, above all, the two-stage procedure, because under the provisions of the Proposal for a Code, the Joint Committee on Human Rights will be declared in the first degree, and the Joint College of both homes in the second. In complaints, then. If he were to apply to the Kolegijum of the doma, he would have no one to decide in the second degree, because he would practically be disfellowshipped from the decision. Here's why we didn't accept it. And I would also like to ask my esteemed colleague Lovrinović, since we have achieved quite a good agreement, to respect this part of the Commission's views. True, we have two abstentions, where when it comes to decision-making, if it is necessary for further explanations on the matter, I would very much like to give my opinion on it. Well, here, we'll see, depending on how many colleagues will insist on staying on their own definition to refrain from supporting the Codex. And I call on all clubs and MPs to support the Codex, that it applies to all of us and here it doesn't matter whether we are a position or opposition, but whether we want to establish rules of conduct in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8837	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8839	Thank you. As I first appear, I welcome you to the chairman and welcome all colleagues and colleagues present in this House. So, it was just my intention to move on right away while your thoughts were hot about this. So, I think these first two amendments that only explanation speaks of my idea, and everything that Mr. Chairman Bojić, this Committee, said and there at that session of the Committee really stands. However, this is all regulated at the end of the law, and I don't know why we should rewrite it all again in the Rules of Procedure about our conduct, because we have talked about some terms that are not really mentioned in the law, but now it's another 57 stories, because we are really in a position to have many phenomena that may have the character of discrimination of a different kind, therefore, observation in a different way than usual and envisaged, so I think this formulation is better. But here, I'm staying with the amendments, and you'll plead how you plead. I think that's enough for the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to this third amendment which speaks of applying, therefore my intention was to make it impossible for me to be wrong, and then we discussed it at the Committee, so that each of us now having a misunderstanding with a colleague from the same club, and not to say from another, may, in the debate, file a request for the initiation of proceedings under the Code of Majority or Light Injure, responsibilities, or behaviour. I think it'd be better if in one hot situation, which may have been today, she had better discuss it. And I left an opportunity for a lawyer who doesn't have a club, so he's going through the College. And now it's in your Rules of Procedure that however, the College file a report. So, it stands, no matter what you, perhaps my amendment won't accept, as far as I understand it, it says that the College can endure, too, initiate proceedings under the Code. So it seemed to me that it was better to think about it anyway, that after each session we might not have a... application of colleagues, colleagues, etc. It was just intention, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8840	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8841	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Bojić. I was sure we'd agree on this amendment. It's really about technical change. Given that the work has been deleted by our amendments to the Commission and the sanctions remain. And to be perfectly honest, the amendment Mr. Bojić suggested to us and let us know that it was left, that we forgot to throw out the sanctions, and then we just finished it. I was pretty sure we'd agree on that and it's really just a technical change. And let me just say that the SBB Club will, of course, support this proposal code with these amendments adopted on the Joint Committee on Human Rights. We are completely satisfied with the outcome of the whole process, even four amendments we have had, all four have been adopted. And all the other amendments that have been adopted are those for which we have also given support, so we are fully satisfied with the final outcome and of course we will support the proposal for a code with all the amendments adopted on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8842	Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8843	I'll do it very briefly. So, fellow Lovrinović, when it comes to the Kolegijum and its role in the process at all, we have adopted an amendment in which we have excluded the Kolegijum from this possibility. So he's no longer practically in the process, because that would be immaterial. So 58 you have an argument regarding your Amendment III, so please respect that. So, every individual, every MP, every member of the Kolegijum can initiate the procedure, but not to the Kolegijum, because they would practically exclude the Kolegijum from the decision-making process. So that amendment was adopted. For these reasons I invite you to give up this Amendment, for these reasons we have not accepted it. Here, it's simply not a replica, it's just an explanation to make it easier to come to a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8844	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Diana Zelenika, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8845	Thank you. Once again, I warmly welcome my colleagues and colleagues, from the guests and the Council of Ministers, I have no one, but at least on my right, our esteemed guests. Just a short replica to the president of the club I belong to, which is the HDZ Club of BiH and the parties gathered around the HNS. But that knowledge itself says that we don't have to think the same way about what in such a variant, here I can be discriminated against if I don't agree with the rest of the club. So according to this amandman III, which was invested by my esteemed colleague, I would not have the right to file a complaint if the other four members would disagree, which I find extremely discriminatory. And here, I wanted to tell him so much that I certainly can't support this amendment personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8846	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8847	I thank the chairman. I also need to refer to my colleague Nikola Lovrinović's amendment, and also to something that is happening, imagine at the Joint Commission on Human Rights where colleague Mario Karamatić, who comes from this club, can no longer be put up with how much he insults a representative who comes from another option, which is me, from the DF, insulting her first on a national basis and at the last session he said that my amendments, imagine, are fascist. So the Codex, and this amendment that is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović's proposal, does not give me the absolute opportunity to complain to anyone about such insults that are unacceptable. And on the other hand, here's what you're saying to my colleague Lovrinović that the club should react. I'm not aware that your club reacted when Mr. Karamatić insulted me on a national basis, when he insulted our minister, not to speak in any way, in the most humble way. Third, to put me in context, imagine someone who comes from a social democratic party, or a party that is socially democratically oriented and characterizes me as some fascist, and he comes from the party he comes from. So that amendment is absolutely unacceptable, and not accepting this Code today will show who wants to face his consciousness and conscience. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8848	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're moving on to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. The Commission's report to the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22.07.2015, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, no later than six months from the date of adoption of this initiative, a proposal for a law on the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the parliamentary procedure." At the 17th session of 16 September 2015, the parliamentary initiative was sent to the House College for subsequent consent due to an insufficient entity majority. The college failed to agree on a parliamentary initiative. The debate is closed, we will plead later in the second round of voting. We're going to the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. The Commission's report to the House of Representatives on its efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with delivering information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the 'national group of subjects' and the study of mother tongues throughout BiH territory"
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8852	I will only briefly share with you one of my reflections on the Committee on Gender Equality. Reading, I think somewhere in paragraph 7.2. where it says that the central institution for protection against discrimination is the Ombudsman institution for human rights can only make me laugh. That's what I talked about when we had the Ombudsman's report adopted here at the session. Although it still states that the law gives him broad powers in terms of individual protection and protection, I think I've said enough and it's known enough. I could only add, depending on the belonging of a particular political party, that, otherwise, no. Furthermore, since spring somehow, since the fifth month, I have on several occasions been informed by people who, or more specifically by the head of the Department of Elimination of all forms of discrimination, at a conference held in Jahorina, that they are not electronically bound and that they do not have a database, so that I will not be burdened with you at that time because I have talked enough about it, that there is no data and that they will be questioned. At the next, from a conference held in Bristol, about discrimination, which we also talked about, where my esteemed colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, and I, as a representative at the House of Representatives, had not even had the opportunity, we did not even get a word for the reason for the cooling of food and press conference. If I'm not mistaken. Mrs. Džumhur, as one of the ombudsmen, also, discussing the problem, said she knew nothing about it, that she had been forced to go to Mostar to inform herself about what it was, which in the words spoken, leads to the conclusion that the databases at the given moment bar, I am building, at least at the given moment, were not at all clear that it puts doubt on me about the credibility of the reports that we are sending to the Council of Europe. Since this report has been presented to us by the esteemed Director of the Gender Equality Agency, the comment was that it will make an effort to get a report on whether this database exists and since when, and it was one of the conclusions of that session. Dear Minister, there is no, while I am with her, I must commend, this is the first time that the Minister is not present and that is one of the reasons for that Article 20 that more women should really be in the Council of Ministers because I am convinced that Mrs Borovac is not prevented from being here today, because most of the time she remains with us until these late hours, but here, given that she is not there and that she is in that signature, if only for a moment I could get information from the Honorable Director is this misinformation and is this Report credible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8853	Thank you. Anyone else want to participate in the discussion? Would you like to answer the question? Here you go. Director of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8854	Here's my first chance to say hello to the chairman, the chairman, parliamentarians, and I'll try to be brief in response. According to the discussion we had on the Committee on Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly, I, as the Director of the Agency, through the Ministry, or Minister Mrs Borovac, have referred to the Ombudsman Institution a question just to check the allegations relating to the electronic database of 14.09.2015. We haven't received any 61 answers from the Ombudsman unfortunately, so here I am still not in a position to return your information. As soon as we get an answer, although in direct encounters with the representatives of the Ombudsman institution, they feel that the issue should come from the Commission, not as our representative of the executive government. But here, until we get a formal we don't have that answer for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8855	Thank you. Since no one's answering their words anymore, I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion obliging the Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation to draft the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties with the aim of implementing the recommendations of GRECO – Proposer: Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH At its 9th session of 16 September 2015, the Joint College of both homes discussed a proposal to implement recommendations from the Central Election Commission in the area of political party financing. In this regard, the Joint College has proposed to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to reach a conclusion obliging the Interresor Working Group to amend electoral legislation to draw up a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties with a view to implementing the recommendations of GRECO. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. If no one calls for a hearing, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 14th agenda, Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of a representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the location of the Shop Gora, the Municipality of Dvor - Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8858	Thank you. Aarnaut, a colleagueArnaut has already pointed out the observations relating to this material and can be treated as a technical error in terms of the wrongly named municipality, as these materials replace the municipality of Dvor with the municipality of Drvar. The municipality of Drvar is in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the municipality of Dvor in the Republic of Croatia. And this seems to me to show how the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not familiar with the process of determining the location for the disposal of radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has to react and is very interested because the landfill of radioactive waste plans to build only a few kilometers from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus jeopardising development, so I can freely say the entire northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have already had discussions in this House about the proposals and how to determine the location of Trska gora, i.e. the microlocation of Cerkezovac in the Republic of Croatia. This House also adopted the conclusions under which the Council of Ministers, competent agencies and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina were to carry out the same activities, and we should have had some information on the state of the process of assessing the convenience of the proposed location for the disposal of radioactive waste. In the absence of this information, we must, since we are interested in taking part in this process and dispute that location, monitor what is going on and what activities are being undertaken by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia. At the meeting when the Information on the intention to build a radioactive waste dump in the Shop Mountain was discussed, one of the conclusions is that the proposed working group is also appointed. The task of the task of the task force is to monitor the situation and activities related to the possible construction of a dump on the location of the Shop Mountain, the municipality of Dvor, the Republic of Croatia, to make it quite clear which location it is. It will be very difficult for this working group, I may have to subjectively conclude, it will be very difficult to monitor the situation and activities when the competent authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina seem slow to act and react slowly. This claim is supported by the activities of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia, which has published a decision on the content of a strategic study for the national programme for the implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel, and remains the only location of the Trade Mountain, i.e. now the latest microlocation of Čerkezovac, on the basis of this strategic study. Not to enter the content of this document itself, as this would require a certain time, I must conclude that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not responded officially or seriously cited in these documents the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the proposed location. In that sense, the task of this task group will be more difficult, so perhaps subjectively assessing and impossible to monitor these activities when we do not have relevant, quality-defined facts, nor have we been able to dispute all that is stated in the national implementation programme of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel of the Republic of Croatia, and the same proposal was published in August 2015. We need expert analyses and facts that will show that the proposed location is not acceptable for Bosnia and Herzegovina based on the criteria contained in this proposal for a national programme. 63 I have been preparing for this debate gathering all documents showing that Bosnia and Herzegovina is unfortunately not following this procedure and I must say that if we are appointed to
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8859	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8860	This working group, having a very difficult task, and I would not want the appointment of this task force to be understood as if we were to appoint a task force so that nothing is done, or that we would react as a working group when the competent authorities of the institution do not provide timely information, arguments and facts. Following what is being led in the Republic of Croatia in order for the location of the Shop Mountain to be the location and disposal of radioactive waste, I would like to propose a conclusion in charge of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8861	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8862	BiH to draw up observations on the proposal for a national programme to implement the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel of the Republic of Croatia, which, on the basis of expert analyses and established facts, will challenge the possibility of building a landfill of radioactive waste in the area of Trade Mountain, the microlocation of Cerkezovac in the Republic of Croatia, and to deliver the same to the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia by 24 October 2015. This deadline was established by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia when the interested public can deliver observations, opinions and suggestions.../Employee microphone excluded/...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8863	It's your time, the microphone's off. Pass the conclusion to the office so it will be forwarded. The word came from MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8865	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I'm taking the opportunity to express my satisfaction that in time the mistake I was talking about in determining the agenda was corrected. However, I agree with Mr. Emrić, that mistake is not a comma, it's not any other interactive error or anything like that, so it really shows, instead of the Dvor municipality in the operational part of the decision to put the Drvar municipality, it shows at least, right, that people just don't think about this problem the way this problem deserves it. At worst, we could have sent a message or that the Republic of Croatia plans to postpone nuclear waste in the municipality of Drvar, I am surprised that at least Mr Špirić did not react or send a message that we have territorial claims towards the Republic of Croatia that this place is now located in the municipality of Drvar. 64 I do, however, try to send a message that it is absolutely necessary to take care of what is given to MPs about what this House votes on. So, we really are today, here's what I didn't say when I set the agenda, we would adopt a conclusion that stands in the Trade Mountain of the Drava Municipality and that there is a delay in nuclear waste. And then at the very least, of course, it wouldn't have produced any negative consequences, but at the very least, we would have put this House in a position to make fun of us, with both right and for a reason. And I am then taking this opportunity to really appeal that these mistakes are no longer repeated, they are often in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to commissions. Here, we had one mistake which, as the legislative sector said, would lead to the inability to apply the Rules of Procedure. We had a mistake here that, I say again, so she showed that there is not enough consciousness for the size of this problem nuclear waste a few kilometers from the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also at the very least when it comes to the effect would lead to a mockery. So the portals buzz when someone makes a mistake on TV, and imagine the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts a document with such a mistake. So this is a really serious question, I'm really appealing to the House's leadership to take this a little more seriously and that these mistakes don't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8866	Thank you, counsel. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8867	Well, I'll, I'll short, I'm sorry I'm here at the agenda point to see that the Court, and if it wasn't the Woodman, and I want to draw attention to Arnaut that... it's not helping,...lexic mistakes, but what I'd like to see your activities build up the Drvar-Glamoch communication, to open up jobs, to rebuild the destroyed objects there... So this concern that you're showing to the Drava... it's hard to understand... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8868	Thank you very much. At this point, I don't see any more complaints. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH At its 9th session, held on 16 Borislav Bojić, the Joint College established a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight. Representatives: Salko Sokolović, Borislav Bojić, Predrag Kožul and envoys: Ljilja Zovko, Safet Softić and Ognjen Tadić are proposed for members of the Interim Joint 65 committee. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Branch members in Banja Luka and Mostar, material of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and members of branches in Banja Luka and Mostar
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8871	At 3:00 a.m. vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8872	You want to go to 3:00? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So at 3:00, the vote, that's what I mean. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8874	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8875	What don't you agree? Let's talk, sign up, talk to each other. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8876	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8877	Just patience. There he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8878	Respecting the College as a working body, respecting all non-staying colleagues and colleagues, they do not live in Sarajevo, but they do have the right to separate lives and accommodation in the city of Sarajevo, where they work in the Parliamentary Assembly, you as a College should immediately inform us that you will not take a break today because you are changing your way of working in accordance with your obligations. The DF Club is asking for an hour's break so he can have lunch because here we are, and if we were to perform a religious ritual, we would get half an hour, so we should eat because we haven't even had breakfast and according to our hours of work, it should have been lunchtime a long time ago. So we're looking for a lunch break of an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8879	Please, we closed the debate today, I don't know how I'm supposed to comment on what I'm supposed to say right now. I'm prepared as chairman to work without lunch in the morning when the session begins until the evening is over. So, who said we were here 67 for lunch, gentlemen? Don't talk about lunch, etc., we can make arrangements. So none of us said or did we, we did even, the College made consultations with the club presidents of all, to continue the session, to go at this pace. So this is today's session of all club presidents and of course us. And at this point, I'm taking a break until 3:00, so at 3:00, we're here for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8881	I ask the MPs to take their seats, everyone registers neatly so they can join the vote. I ask at the same time that those who are not present at this time check them out.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8882	You check out everything, the one, so let them check in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8883	Let them log in, just you check out everyone who isn't present at the moment. We can start with a vote. At this point, they all sat down. We move to vote, point 1. – The adoption of the 17th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Let's vote. Of the total 30 present – for 29, no objection, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH 16 for, nothing against, 1 abstention, RS 13 for, nothing against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted a 17-session record. Moving to point 3. – Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Out of 30 – for 29, no problem, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 16 for, nothing against, 1 abstention, RS 13 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the Asylum Law proposal. Moving to point 4. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Let's vote. We'll repeat the vote at this point on the bill's proposal. Of the 32 present – for 24, against 5.3 abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're suggesting again. 68 Please repeat the vote. Of the 33 present – for 25, against 6, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 18 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 7 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the Bill on Consumer Protection Act in BiH. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law on foreigners – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 33 present – for 32, no objection, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 19 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 13 for, no against 1 abstention. In addition to the entity majority and the general majority, I find that we passed the Proposal of Foreigners Act in the first reading. We're moving on to point six. – Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražica (law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 33 present – for 13, versus 17, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 12 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, RS 1 for, 13 against, no abstentions. There's not enough majority, so we didn't accept the bill in the first reading. Moving to point 7. – Request of the Constitutional Legal Committee to consider Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. First we vote on an emergency procedure request. Let's vote. Of the 33 present – for 25, against 4, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH 12 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, RS 13 for, no objection, 1 comprehensible. So, with the general majority and the entity majority, we adopted an emergency procedure. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the hearing, no reports are filed. We are now voting on the proposal for an amendment from MP Damir Arnaut submitted in accordance with Article 133(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Let's vote on a proposal for an amendment by a representative of Arnaut. Of the 33 present – for 16, against 9, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH for 15, no objection, 4 abstentions, RS 1 for, 9 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going to the second round right now. Let's vote in the second round on the amendment of Representative Damir Arnaut. Out of 33 – 20, 13 are against, there are no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 19 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 1 for, 13 against, no abstentions. So there is a general majority, the entity majority does not exist and no amendment has been adopted by MPs Damir Arnaut. 69 We now move on voting on a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So let's vote on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Of the total 33 – for 21, against 1 abstention 11. The Federation of BiH 12 for, no objection, 7 abstentions, RS 9 for, 1 versus, 4 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority, I understand we've accepted the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 8. – Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We vote on Opinion, in this case, the Constitutional Commission. Of the 33 present – 16 for, against 14, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 4 for, against 13,2 abstentions, RS 12 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's no entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8888	71 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-07-0.u8889	Are you asking for a repeat vote? Please repeat our vote, for technical reasons. Of the 33 present – for 11, versus 17, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 10 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions, RS 1 for, 13 against, no abstentions. There is no general majority, I agree, after the second round of voting, that Denis Bećirović's initiative was not adopted to deliver the draft law on the Supreme Court in the parliamentary procedure. Moving to point 11. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't repeat the vote. Please repeat our vote. Please be serious, we just adopted the Codex. [[Common discussion]]
