ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6024	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session today; the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. Representatives of the Committee for Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of National Minorities, the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law, representatives of the BiH Central Bank, the Export and Credit Agency of BiH, the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH and a parliamentary military commissioner whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. So, the Central Bank report isn't on today's agenda, it's off the agenda being at the next session. I warmly welcome, therefore, all present guests and MPs. The absence was justified by MPs Mensura Beganović, Dušanka Majkić, Dijana Zelenika, Hazim Rančić and Šemsudin Mehmedović. They are on an official trip on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at different destinations, according to different obligations. According to service information, 34 MPs are present in the O.R. right now. We have, therefore, conditions for full work and decision-making, so I find that the session has a quorum. On 30 April 2015, you were informed that this session, since it was the first session of the month, would be in accordance with Article 171. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, Members will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Šemsudin Mehmedović – the Minister of Security, the announcement of the issue was made in preparation for the 10th session of the House, but then no reply was given in oral form and it was established that the answer would be requested at the first next session of the House intended to ask questions in oral form; Fehim Škaljić – the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Salko Sokolović – Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; jasmin Emrić – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security; Damir Arnaut – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Civil Affairs; Maja Gasal Vražalica – the chairman of the BiH Council of Finance and the BiH Finance and the BiH Treasury and Borislav Bojić – the chairman of the Council of BiH. These announcements shall be in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. 2 I would also like to remind you that the security and direct TV transmission of this part of the session is in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We can now start by asking oral questions and giving answers. Mr. Mehmedović is not present, so his question will be forwarded for the next session. I now invite Mr. Fehim Škaljić to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6025	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, good day to you. I would like to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is not here today, but I will use the term to do so. At first, I would like to say that there is nothing more important in the countries of normal-developed democracy than the session of Parliament and that executive authorities must be present at Parliament's session, and when it happens extremely that it cannot then be notified by Parliament in one form that is adequate, than by one who has not come from the executive authority. We know today that they have forums, forums are an important thing but they are not binding, and Parliament is binding. I wanted to ask a question that is very important for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's about the coordination mechanism. The Europe we are seeking, what citizens are asking us to do to be members of the community of European countries for the prosperity of individuals, insurance of collectiveity, a better future, requires that political subjects and parliaments put the issue in priority. They say that without the coordination mechanism, we do not have the opening of the process of an accelerated European pathway and that we are beyond the reach of the resources available by the EU in a pre-accession procedure provided for countries like us. The question is this – at what stage is the building of the coordination mechanism when we know that in the Federation of BiH the obligation of municipalities to cantons is minimal and the canton towards the Federation is virtually zero, and at the state level in the executive government is not part of the government that covers 49% of the territory? Who co-ordinates the process of the co-ordination mechanism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at what stage is the construction of the mechanism, when are the deadlines and when can we have the document on the table? No Niko has officially informed us as Parliament. Please answer that question. I'd like to give it to the chairman of the Council of Ministers or get it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6026	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is not currently in the O.R., he probably has obligations, today he is here in the building of Parliament and Sarajevo Business Forum, we have visits to which the chairman of the Council of Ministers has obligations, and I do not know if anyone from the Council of Ministers wants to answer this question or if we will ask that the question be answered in writing. Here, therefore, Mr. Šakljić, according to what I can see will be granted to this second alternative you have asked, which is to deliver the question in writing. I am asking the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to address this issue by next session that in writing. 3 Let's move on. Mr. Salko Sokolović has his word, he's out of the O.R. right now, and we'll wait for him to come back. By then, I would ask Mr Jasmin Emrić to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security of BiH. Mr. Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6027	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, I warmly welcome you, as well as representatives of the Council of Ministers. I would like to ask the Ministry of Security or another competent authority, or the institution of the Council of Ministers, and my question concerns information relating to the disposal of radioactive waste in the Trade Mountain. As you know, off-the-book and unconfirmed, we could get information about the activities of the government in the Republic of Croatia in order to establish a landfill of radioactive waste in the Shop. Unconfirmed information suggests that some activities are already being carried out. Citizens of the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina are panicking, they fear for their health and want to know how accurate this information is, that there are already activities and is suspected that radioactive waste is already being partially delayed in the place of the Shop Mountain. Therefore, I would like the Ministry of Security to verify this information, inform citizens of their safety and to inform the citizens whether their health and life in these areas have been compromised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6028	Thank you. The Minister of Security will answer this question, as far as I understand. Here you go, Mr. Minister. So he just walked into the O.R. and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I welcome him, but you're looking for information in writing, so there's no need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6029	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs. As far as this issue is concerned, I can answer that the BiH Ministry of Security is not responsible for this answer, but primarily think that the State Regulatory Agency for radiation and nuclear security is responsible for the most part and for a small part of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I know that the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has had one kind of contact with the competent Ministry in the Republic of Croatia and that he has received the answer for, that he has a certain type of response. I don't know if there's a representative of this ministry here right now, and I think the answer should be sought by this State Regulatory Agency and the Foreign Affairs and Economic Relations Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6030	Thank you very much. Mr. Emrić, come in. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6031	I am not satisfied with the answer, because my question has been asked to the Council of Ministers or to another competent ministry. Therefore, in front of the Council of Ministers, someone in charge should tell the citizens of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is several municipalities, in what state their health is, whether they are threatened, because you must understand that panic is in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why is it panic? Because for more than 15 years, activity has been under way in the construction of a landfill of radioactive waste and precisely in that location. Since 2000, we have been actively fighting the intentions of the Croatian authorities to build such a dump in that location, and now they cannot get information whether their health is safe, whether they are safe. I really don't have any words for this. I think you had to have information, the citizens expect it. Citizens ask me what we do in state institutions. They want to make sure their health is questionable or not. I have countless examples and perhaps verified information about how long this problem has been working, and unfortunately here we cannot get an answer, or citizens who expect an answer cannot get it. And that's why I'm not happy with this answer, and I'm asking that you deliver it to me in writing and that it be verified information, because that's what citizens expect me to do, and I live in these places, and I'm a representative of those citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6032	Thank you very much, Mr. Emrić. Thank you, Minister. I don't think there's any need to hang on to this anymore, except I'll give you an explanation. So there's also the deputy director of the competent agency, and he can give answers, but I think it's best that you get an answer, as you said yourself, in writing. And today is the agenda point planned for your initiative, Mr. Emrić, you have seen it described, we will deal with this point of the agenda today with this issue. We are now returning to Mr. Sokolović, who has returned to the O.R. to ask a question. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question is focused, I ask the BiH Law Department and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. The BiH institutions' audit office carried out an impact review on the topic "Subjects for Court Disputes". The results of the audit suggest that BiH institutions rarely take steps to prevent court disputes, while analysis of court disputes is limited and delayed. This leads to additional expenditure on court disputes. Between 2008 and '13 BiH institutions, as the accused party, have lost 313 litigation cases. Lost litigation cases have current increases. The BiH institutions are late in executing court rulings, causing additional court costs. From 14.6 million KM paid expenditure on court disputes during the period under consideration, i.e. 2008-2013. around 700,000 were paid as a result of the untimely realization of court disputes. In view of the forwards listed by the BiH Law Department, I am asking for information on the activities undertaken to stop this negative trend, given that the BiH Ombudsman is responsible for representing the courts in question. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is also responsible for the implementation and recording of expenditure on court disputes. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6034	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and Finance in the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Treasury, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6035	Dear President, members of the College, distinguished MPs, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The BiH institutions' audit office has carried out its impact review on the issue of "Subject Issues for Court Disputes" for the period 2008-2013. A year. In those 6 revised years, 14.6 million marks were paid by court rulings. In this report, the Office estimated that around 700,000 marks were paid as a result of the untimely realization of court rulings. Acknowledging the weaknesses and respecting the recommendations of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury issued an instruction on how to carry out the payment of executive judgments through the BiH budget under number 08021458-11. That instrukcija specified that as the basis for enforcement, that is, the payment of judgments may be the order of the BiH Attorney's Office to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to make payments under a judicial verdict and an executive judicial solution implemented by the Business Bank in the System of the Single Account of the Treasury. That instruction shall specify in detail the procedure for the payment of judicial judgments within 15 days of the adoption of a judicial solution, with a view to avoiding additional costs of the executive procedure as mutual communication with the Ombudsman in respect of the delivery of payment orders with all necessary elements. It should be pointed out that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has submitted its comments on the report of the Office for Auditing the Impact Review on the subject of "Subject Issues for Court Disputes", covering certain activities undertaken by the Ministry. They are the following – the ministry has launched activities to prepare a software solution that will allow the exchange of information with the High Court and Prosecutorial Council regarding judicial verdicts. The Ministry also formed an expert team with the task of preparing the exchange of information with the High Court and Prosecutor's Council where the software solution will, first of all, provide an up-to-date record of all judicial verdicts as well as the necessary elements for the execution of the same payment within the specified deadline. The ministry also considered the possibility that, through a record available by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, more advanced planning of the resources needed in the budget for the execution of judgments. The Ministry’s Treasury Business Sector has taken up a large part of its activities in order to ensure timely and proper enforcement of judicial judgments, as has been established in the report of the Audit Office itself. Following the adoption of the above mentioned Instructions as well as the above mentioned activities and actions taken by the Ministry, it may be concluded that a decline in the number of procedures initiated, i.e. the number of cases lost, and one of the findings of the Office for the Audit of Institutions in its Report, has been recorded in recent years. Here, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6036	Thank you, Mr. Bevanda. Mr. Sokolović, do you need to comment? Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6037	Thank you. I thought Mr. Bevanda would stay here, because I'm going to stay for a while. Now I'm just interested in what you're talking about, can we consider it a system solution or an ad hoc solution? There's only one part of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6038	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6039	A system solution. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6040	Thank you, Mr. Sokolović. We're moving on. The word is from Mr Damir Arnaut -- the issue of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs. Mr. Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6041	I thank the chairman. Parliamentary Question – Has the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, as the competent ministry, led any consultations or negotiations with the competent authorities of Australia regarding the proposed Social Security Agreement between our two countries since June 2013, and, if so, between which contacts have been held and when? A brief explanation: The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs proposed to Australia, through the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Embassy, in March 2007, to conclude a social security agreement because it is of the far most important primary interest for more than 50,000 bh of citizens in the country. For more than three years, there were no shifts, and then the government of Australia decided to start negotiations. A round was held at the Australian party's initiative in June 2013, but I would like to know what happened in the period after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6042	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6043	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly. As regards this important question, which the honourable Member Arnaut asked, we gave an exhaustive answer for the activities related to 2013 and 2014. After the question has been referred, let me give you a brief answer. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs conducted consultations with Australia's competent authorities during 2015 regarding the conclusion of the Social Insurance Agreement. As a result, on 23 April this year, an electronic confirmation came from Mr. Piter Hačinson, director of the 7 Social Services Sector in Australia, who accepted the ministry's proposal, so the Civil Affairs Ministry, to hold the next round of negotiations in November this year in Kamberi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6044	I thank Mr. Đorđ Milićević, deputy minister of civil affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. Mr. Arnaut, do you need to comment? If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6045	I thank the chairman. I am not satisfied with the answer since it has been mentioned that in writing it has been delivered, however it is not. This is the first time I've heard about this communication one, and to remind you if it is, between which contacts have been maintained and when? I would like to receive this issue in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is the answer to that question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6046	Thank you very much, Mr. Arnaut. I call on the Council of Ministers to, in accordance with this additional request from the honourable representative in writing, respond to this question, respecting the request for this supplement. The word is by Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, it is a matter of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance and Treasury of BiH. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6047	Dear Chairman, thank you. I welcome all present. I ask the Minister of Finance and the BiH Treasury to answer me – Is there a problem with the wrong payment of contributions to health insurance and unemployment insurance in BiH institutions that have residence in the Federation of BiH? On this issue, I have letters addressed to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Tax Administration of the Federation of BiH, and correspondence on this issue to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Country Tax Office of the Centre. This shows that the problem of the wrong payment of these contributions since January 1, 2011 exists, and that the problem has not been resolved so far and that the funds that have been wrongly paid have not been returned to the BiH budget. A particularly indicative letter from the Cantonal Tax Office of the Center from 06 March 2015 was sent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Finance Sector, which states that even after more notices of payment, the contribution continues to be made in the wrong way and thus makes it impossible for employees to exercise their right to pension and health insurance. I have information that employees of the Parliamentary Assembly, including my colleagues and fellow MPs who retired after 01.01.2011, have not yet fully regulated their pension until today, since the Pension Insurance Fund has not registered an internship after this date. 8 In this regard, I ask you to answer me – What is the amount of the funds wrongly paid for these contributions, and what have you done to return the disputed amount which has been wrongly paid back to the BiH Budget, as well as when will this problem be solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6048	Thank you very much. Minister Bevanda has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6049	Say hello to everyone again. Question if there's a problem, problem exists. Namely, the Federation Tax Administration in 2013 informed the Ministry of Finance and Treasury that there were problems in the loading of monthly reports, so-called MIP forms for 2011, 12. and '13. a year, January and February, according to the relevant funds, and as a result of mispayments based on contributions to insurance for unemployment and health insurance contributions. Namely, for individuals employed in BiH institutions whose place of residence is in the Federation, part of the contribution of unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions is paid according to the place of establishment of the BiH institution where the employee has legal status rather than to the place of residence of the employees, which is contrary to the provisions of the Public Revenue Payments Regulation, the Budget and the extra budget funds in the territory of the Federation of BiH. And you're right. In this regard, it is important to stress that loading the MIP forms for 2011 and '12 is important. The tax administration only performed at the end of 2012. The finance and vault ministry provided BiH institutions with information, notification, instruction number: 0841612103-1/14 of 24.02.2014 requiring the same to take concrete measures and activities to address the problem. The ministry asked, among other things, all BiH institutions to prepare a request for the refund of funds wrongly paid, and to deliver them to the Federation Tax Administration. After mispayments by the BiH institutions, it is required to re-payment of unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions to the employee's place of residence in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. It is important to stress that the largest number of BiH institutions has already solved the above mentioned problem according to this Instructions. For example. in full, Ministry of Communications and Transport, Ministry of Foreign Trade, Medicines and Medical Devices, Institute of Intellectual Property, Ministry of Civil Affairs, etc. Therefore, for those institutions, the MIP forms for the above three years have been successfully loaded according to the relevant funds. The speed at which the Parliamentary Assembly will address the above-mentioned problem depends on the urgency of both the competent services within the Parliamentary Assembly and the competent services within the Federation's Tax Administration and the competent cantonal funds. That would be a complete answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6050	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, do you need to comment? 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6051	Thank you to the Honorable Minister. The above shows that some have solved the problem because of their urgency. I'm begging you if you don't mind delivering it to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6052	Here, you heard, so there's no need to repeat, there'll be an answer in writing. And I call on, of course, institutions that have not updated the situation, with what the honourable minister has been talking about, to do so. Now it's Mr. Borislav Bojić's turn. Mr. Bojić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6053	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I have a very short question, since we are at one of our sessions, which took place on 15.01., my question concerns the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts. Namely, the question arises – Why the forensic examination and the art of art has not practically realised the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives. She also had an obligation to inform the public and the Parliamentary Assembly. There's been no notification so far. And in terms of reasons, I'm curious about what the basic problem is and why the art was not done. Namely, we are at the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, which took place on 15.01., in the context of a discussion of pressure on freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the police search and blocking of Klix.ba's directory, four conclusions were adopted. Of these 4 conclusions, of course, they are all important, but I single out the one that refers to the Agency's call for forensic research and skills to determine the authenticity of the audio footage of the "two hooves" affair and to inform the public and the relevant BiH institutions about the results. So I'm wondering if he is, and I don't know if he has a representative of this agency here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6054	So, there is, there is a director here, but we have a Rules of Procedure who says the question is asked by the Council of Ministers and if it is an agency that is part of the ministry, the answer is given by the minister, and if it is independent, then the answer is given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. If we don't have a prepared answer to this question, ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We do not have, therefore, the present Director to, in communication with the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, or in whose composition you are, prepare this response and give an oral response at the next session. It will be done by the minister of security or by the chairman of the Council of Ministers depending on, I think it is the minister of security. Thank you very much. 10 Dear ladies and gentlemen, no more announced questions. We've finished this preliminary agenda, we're moving on with the session. In preparation, therefore, these sessions of the House held sessions of the House and the joint committees of both homes, except for the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, which, as you know, has not yet been established, on which there was a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the agenda, which you received earlier, I would like to inform you of the following. Add to the agenda: Point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law of 12.05.2015. point 4. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2015 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, from 05.05.2015. (first reading) Point 16. Report by the Commission on Transport and Communications on the public hearing of representatives of BHANSA, BHDCA and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the failures mentioned in the Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Control of Air Traffic of Bosnia and Herzegovina", dated 27.04.2015. Point 22. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary House of BiH Point 23. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Point 24. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to, for the first next session of the House of Representatives, prepare and deliver the Information on the procedure for the assessment and approval of the convenience of the location at the Shop Gora for the installation of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste, which is run by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia", dated 29.04.2015. Point 29. Consideration of Semihe Borovac's resignation as a member and first deputy of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina law, act 20/04/2015. Point 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on military financial co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial assistance between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, dated 04.05.2015. Point 31. The approval of the ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 21 December 2005 in Sarajevo and 28/12/2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent amendments (the Financing Treaty) to the project – Railways in BiH II (Fi 23.376), since 06.05.2015. 11 The following are added: point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović with the Constitutional Commission Report. This has been on the agenda before, but it's a negative report from the Constitutional Legal Commission, so that's the kind of addition. Point 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Election Law – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, the law since 23.02.2015 is with Opinion, negative Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It was downloaded from the previous agenda: Point 14. Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2014 under: 1. Financial report for the year ending 31.12.2014 and 2. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2014, issue 01-50-19-496/15 of 03.04.2015, at the request of the Central Bank of BiH, due to the inability to attend the meeting of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that we delayed last session after a terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station, that we have requested as a College of Information from the Council of Ministers on the subject. Afterwards, other developments related to the search and arrests of Republika Srpska in the "Ruben“ action were followed, and since we didn't get it, we received information from the Council of Ministers to produce information, all the information, the Kolega concluded yesterday that the updated information with all, therefore, these events and about the attack on the police station, as well as the events before and after all police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina were done by the Council of Ministers and delivery, and this will be the subject of the next session of the agenda. I ask the Council of Ministers to take care of this, I have said this because the media and the Council of Ministers of BiH are present here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all I had to say in the introduction to the agenda. I am now opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Can I help you? Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6056	Members of the Bureau, chair of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. I'm sorry that I have to realize today that the College has given up on its own, which has given up its own conclusions, and it itself sends a bad political message. I will therefore take this opportunity to propose an addition of the agenda and as the first item of the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 71, paragraph 1, I propose, therefore, the first item of the agenda to read – the report of the Ministry of Security on the terrorist attack that took place at the Zvornik police station. Parliament's behaviour to look for summary reports... a new one, or expecting new acts of terrorism, threatens the institution to grow into a cradle for care, to swing if it's easier for someone to cultivate terrorism and terrorist actions. The condemnation of terrorism calls for political consensus and activities to seek political consensus. By postponing the report, by looking for summary reports is actually sent, to those who do this unfortunate work, messages – you do your job, and we will deal with the reports. That's why I'm asking today, if we need to take a break and interrupt this House session until we get a report. It would be a clear message of what this Parliament thinks of such and similar events. 12 And the second amendment, I demand that the third item of the agenda be removed, which is – the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH by an urgent procedure in accordance with the article, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as well. Well, by the way, I have information that the Council of Ministers has made a phone session decision and adopted this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We've been dealing with these and the correspondence and conversations with Manival for a long time. I think Bosnia and Hervcegovina should meet that condition, but that everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready and in line with constitutional competences to do their part of the job. I think that these amendments and additions, today which the parliamentary majority will adopt or not adopt, will do more harm than good. Why am I asking that the agenda be removed? First, you know that there were objections from the Republika Srpska government and that the ministries held a meeting, held talks and that no objections from the Republika Srpska Ministry of Justice were accepted, which of course has its powers in this business. In this way, the issue of jurisdiction is complicated and complex in most cases the execution of the crime of money laundering between entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is particularly true when it comes to cases where the crime of money laundering stems from a predictive crime, and in these cases for a predictive crime under entity law would be the entity's jurisdictional prosecutor's office and for the crime of money laundering, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This would further mean that two criminal proceedings are being conducted against the same suspect, one at the entity level, the other at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not a single criminal procedure, which would be inadmissible from the human rights position. Secondly, the inability to prosecute perpetrators of the crime of money laundering by any prosecutor's office in Republika Srpska, as the territorial principle on which the BiH Ministry of Justice insists, the prosecutor's office in Republika Srpska would almost not be responsible for the crimes of money laundering. And thirdly, in the event of the adoption of such a proposal, since the proposed amendments in all cases of prosecution by the crime of money laundering determines the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, the assets seized after the completion of the procedure under applicable regulations would become assets of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the adverse consequences of the crime could also take place for the Republic of Serbia. For a long time, we and last term have dealt with changes and additions to this Law. He doesn't insist on Manival's solutions, so he doesn't insist, a deal is possible. That's why in the last term we called for him to sit down, talk, and get things closer so that Bosnia and Herzegovina wouldn't have a problem and that its investors and citizens wouldn't have a problem. I warn that this adoption of the law will do much more harm than good. It doesn't matter sometimes, and this is about the transfer of jurisdiction, it doesn't matter if it is, I've been in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 18 years, and I think political processes, a new start for Bosnia and Herzegovina, means more agreements. The same relationship would have had the same attitude as the Federation government. And that's why I think that the arrogance that is manifested, sometimes I don't like the personal attitudes of Republika Srpska, but simply if we want to build a common environment, we need to talk and respect them. That's why I'm asking for this agenda to be removed, especially her emergency procedure, to sit down and talk and create an atmosphere of trust. I am 17 years old, regardless of who was the government, who was the opposition, from Živko Radišić, Bora Paravac and beyond, in the institutions of the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there has never been such misunderstandings between Banja Luka and the representatives of Srbin in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call for it not to be done, it's just not good, that game won't do any good. And that's why I'm asking that this point be removed from the agenda, I'm not accusing anyone, I'm calling for co-operation and understanding, so don't let things get in the way of doing more damage than good for both the state and the entities. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6057	Thank you. The word is Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6058	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6059	The replica has Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. I'd only ask you to keep an eye on me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6060	Chairman, I would really ask you to take care of the fact that this is not a debate on agenda points, but a debate on the agenda. If this agenda is adopted, colleagues will have the opportunity to say their opinions on amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6061	Yes, you're right, but I do, I have limits prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, the representative has the right to explain the agenda for three minutes. He explained two points of the agenda, I took care, therefore, of that, so I agree with you that you should not use the opportunity when the agenda is proposed to create an elaborate and challenging replica, but I call on you to respect all the Rules of Procedure. I obviously won't be able to be alone without all of you together to take it on the right track. The word is Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6062	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and other representatives of institutions. In accordance with Article 71(1), We propose the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives as the second item of the agenda of the discussion and adoption of the next item of the agenda – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of Chairman of the House of Representatives, i.e. member of the College of the House of Representatives. You are well aware that the SNSD MPs' Club proposed this item of the agenda at the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8, 9th and 10th sessions, as well as at the 1st and 3rd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The public has repeatedly been informed of the reasons why the SNSD launched an initiative to replace Mr. Šefik Džaferović, given the necessary need to express our position that the documentation submitted to the Prosecutor's Office on several occasions gives us the obligation to seek Mr. Džaferović's responsibility for the fact that he did not prevent, report or later prosecute war crimes against Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, the SNSD and SNSD Club generally leads a responsible policy, we have a series of memos that we have from the NGO sector gathered on these topics, to express complete dissatisfaction with Mr. Šefik Džaferović's chairmanship and, of course, our obligation is to insist on one such decision and the need to make a decision on the resolution of Šefik Džaferović from the presidency's position. At the same time, and given the latest escalation of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and faced with the faceless terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station, which we consider to be a 14-strike attack, I would also say to the Republika Srpska and its institutions, but also to the attack on Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the reason for including this item of the agenda, we also state that there are credible accusations that Mr Džaferović participated in the anti-constitutional and anti-Dayton action, i.e. the process of granting citizenship to foreign fighters of African-Asian origin, i.e. in creating conditions for their stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the war. This enabled the survival and spread of radical religious ideology, which today poses the biggest security threat both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and around the world. With this in mind, I call on my colleagues and colleagues, and having also as an argument and negation on January 9th, where Mr. Šefik Džaferović has repeatedly denied in public on January 9th, which is also an anti-constitutional and anti-day action for us from the SNSD, I call on colleagues and colleagues to support our initiative and to put this on the agenda today and declare ourselves positively on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6063	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6064	Dear colleagues. I don't want to, of course, suggest, uh, nothing new, but I want to be delivered in writing, or all of us propose these new points of the agenda, personally this other one is interesting as new, so it would be good to get meaning in writing before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6065	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? So this point of the agenda that Mr. Košarac was talking about already exists, so in writing. As far as this other criminal law is concerned from the agenda, it is not possible to take it off the agenda, it is a mandatory item of the agenda, there will be no vote on it, I am obliged to inform you about it, you will be able to plead when we come to the situation to plead on the procedure itself. As for Mr Špirić's first proposal, so I informed you that the College, and then the College in the extended composition after we didn't get the information, that if the information had arrived we would have put it on the agenda, and there were events after the terrorist attack on the Zvornik police station, asked for full information and we will get full information. When he gets here, we'll discuss it. But I should put it to the vote, because that's a proposal from my fellow Špirić. So, I urge you now to plead on Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal to include this special agenda item regarding the terrorist attack. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So we have 11 votes for, 7 votes against and 15 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from the Federation of BiH. 15 We’ll agree on that later. So this point today won't be on the agenda. We're moving on to a statement on the agenda of Mr. Staša Košarac. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Six for, 25 against, two abstentions. I find Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal has not received the support necessary. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I find that the 11th session of the House, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, has the following Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-7/15, of 12.05.2015; 4. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2015 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-6/15, of 05.05.2015. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-3/15, of 26.02.2015, with the Report of the Constitutional Commission; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/14, of 03.11.2014. (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-2/15, of 23.02.2015, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-5/15, of 26.03.2015; 9. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2014, issue 01,02-50-19-422/15, of 23.03.2015; 10. Reports from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: (a) Report on issued documents on external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013, (b) Report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2012, Act No: 01,02-24-1446/14, of 26.12.2014; 11. Report on participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces members in peace support operations, BiH Presidency material, Act No 01,02-03-42/15, of 05.01.2015; 12. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014, issue: 05/2-50-19-238/15, dated 10.02.2015; 13. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-338/15, of 03.03.2015; 16 14. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2014, Act No 01,02-50-19-373/15, of 12.03.2015; 15. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2014 law, issue 01,02-37-451/15, dated 26.03.2015. 16. Report by the Commission on Transport and Communications on the public hearing of BHANSA, BHDCA and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the failures mentioned in the Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: " Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Traffic Control", issue: 01/5-16-11311/14, of 27.04.2015; 17. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-486/15, of 01.04.2015; 18. Information BiH Export-Credit Agency on the measures and actions taken to eliminate difficulties and ensure the necessary preconditions for normal work, No: 01-50-19-487/15, since 01.04.2015; 19. Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad for 2015, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-771/14, since 01/09/2014, with amendments and additions to the annual training plan and training of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad, issue 03/1,03/1a-03-339/15, of 03.03.2015; 20. State action plan on emergency cases of protection of the population from ionic radiation in the event of an emergency, nuclear accident or damage, material of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, No: 01,02-04-1372/14, since 16.12.2014; 21. Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: Ambassador Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-2-1440/14, of 24.12.2014; 22. Proposal for a decision to appoint a secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 23. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 24. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare and deliver the Information on the procedure for the assessment and approval of the convenience of the location at the Shop Gora for the installation of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre, which runs the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia", Act No: 01-50-1-628-1/15, of 29/04; 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Auditor General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-538/15, of 09.04.2015; 26. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-539/15, of 09.04.2015; 27. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-540/15, of 09.04.2015; 17 28. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Act No: 01-50-19-1412-1/14, of 08.04.2015; 29. Consideration of Semihe Borovac's resignation as a member and first deputy of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by the second court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No: 01,02-34-1-501/15, of 22/04.2015 and Act No: 05/6-34-1-501/15, of 20.04.2015; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on military financial co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Turkey, No 01.02-05-2-644/15, of 04.05.2015; 31. The approval of the ratification of Amendment No. 3 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 21 December 2005 in Sarajevo and 28.12.2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent amendments (the Funding Treaty) to the project – Railways in BiH II (Fi 23.376), issue: 01.02-05-2650/15, of 06.05.2015. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate on the record. Any objections? I'm closing the debate. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6068	I thank the chairman. I asked the question on 25.03.2015, and 07.05. was the dated answer I received on 08.05, so I want it to be determined that Article 175 is Article 2. The Rules of Procedure shall be injured in this case and entered in the minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 175(2) clearly states – the answer in writing must be given within 30 days of the date on which the question is delivered to whom it is referred. So that deadline has been broken, and I mean, I really don't see a reason why on an extremely simple question, about why the Council of Ministers needs more than 30 days. In any event, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that this business objection be entered in the minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6069	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6070	I thank the chairman. I asked the question at the fifth session, held on 29.04.2015. So the question was the Ministry of Finance – was the adoption of the 2014 Framework Budget document for fiscal 2015, '16. and '17. A year? So, I received a written response which is very interesting, and it says that although it is a legal obligation, although the document of the Framework Budget is a medium-term income and expenditure plan, I note that the legal obligation, in response, stands clearly, I will quote -- it has not yet been considered and adopted because of the fact that the previous Council of Ministers' meeting of BiH has taken the view that all relevant documents, as a document of the Framework Budget 2015-2017, the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2015, is not under consideration, and that the new Council of Ministers of BiH's decision is to decide. It turns out that the Law adopted in this House does not apply to the Council of Ministers, i.e. that ministers can agree on something that is not within the law. I note that this law was supposed to be the Framework Budget that was to be adopted in the last year, in the 5th and 6th and in the 7th month to be on the BiH Finance Ministry page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6071	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nenad Lalić. Here you go, Mr. Lalić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6072	Dear Chairman, vice-president, respected ministers, deputy ministers, fellow MPs, media representatives and others present in the hall, I would like to welcome you all, since this is my first address. Namely, I have asked a parliamentary question that I have received an answer, which I am not satisfied with, of course, but I will remind you previously that my question has been raised. So – what exactly did you do and what are you planning to do to allow for the continuation of the sport career of the best skier and Olympics Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska's Žana Novaković, who you have unfounded for the scholarship from Olympic solidarity, which is our best skier and participant of the two Olympics, and numerous world and European competitions, without the funds needed to continue the sports career? I would like to emphasise that Žana am also a professor at the Faculty of Physical Education and Sports, who spoke to me and referred to the question myself. I'd like to comment on the answer. The ski alliance, among other things, said there are no prescribed criteria for proposing candidates for the award of scholarships by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Olympic Committee, but in each case candidates are specifically considered based on results and other parameters, such as. gender, sport and age. This shows that there is no respect for the fact that the mentioned colleague was in Sochi at the Olympics and achieved the best result, when it comes to the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what's interesting here, here is President Mario Lejkert's signature and for the candidate for the scholarship he proposed and he got Igor Lejkert's scholarship, his son, among other things, so it gives me some suspicion that there's someone there and nepotism and conflict of interest. So I would like a more concrete answer and they stressed that they intend to continue to treat her as a representative and thus help her in the process of training and competition for the next season, which is so very uncertain. And I'll point out that the girl is an exceptional student and young athlete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6073	Thank you very much. Those were comments. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 12.05.2015 with a request for an urgent examination in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk, so we're talking emergency procedures, who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Moving to the point of four agendas, 20 Ads. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2015 – Proposer: BiH Presidency (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6077	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6078	Please go to the clubs and inform the MPs again, at the moment, so we have a quorum, please don't let anyone out of the O.R. We're going back to work. So, the draft bill on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2015 is the BiH presidency. The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 05.05.2015. On the same day, the College forwarded the proposal to the Constitutional Law and the Commission for Finance and Budget, noting that it would be included in the agenda of today's House meetings. On 12.05.2015, the Constitutional Commission submitted its opinion on the constitutional basis and the Financial and Budget Commission delivered its opinion on the principles of the draft law on the same day. The House College has decided to propose to the House that the Bill on Budget BiH institutions and international obligations be considered in both readings at today's session in accordance with Article 112(4). This will only be suggested after the adoption of the Budget in the first reading and we will discuss this later, of course after, as I said, the adoption of the Law in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6079	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I have one question about this agenda point. It says here that the proposer of the Budget is the Presidency, and in accordance with Article 182, the presence of one of the promoters is mandatory. I don't see any of the Bureau members present here, no matter what they said to the Presidency on several occasions, which was obviously not present. I'm asking you, I'm asking you, I'm proposing a break to invite members of the Bureau to be present here while this point is being considered. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6080	So we have here a notice from the Bureau that there is an authorized person outside the Bureau who will represent the Presidency when it comes to Budget. That's how it was at the Constitutional Commission meeting yesterday, right? The person is called Vjekoslav Bevanda, the finance minister and deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6081	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6082	We've got business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6083	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, there are members of the Rules of Procedure, which mentions the presence of a proposing representative. However, as far as the BiH presidency is concerned, Article 182nd position 2 is very clear and precise – the sessions on which the draft laws proposed by the BiH presidency are discussed, and this is the Bill on Budget, whose official proposal is the BiH Presidency, must be attended by at least one member of the BiH presidency. Now, unless Mr. Bevanda in the meantime became a member of the BiH presidency, I really don't think there are conditions to consider this agenda point. The Rules of Procedure are extremely clear, Article 182 paragraph 2 says – at least one member of the Bureau is required to attend meetings where the draft laws proposed by the Presidency are discussed, and if the proposal has not changed in the meantime. Also, Mr. Chairman, another business intervention. You just lost your quorum. Article 73(3), if it is established that there is no quorum of the Chairman of the House, determines a break of up to 60 minutes, during which he tries to secure the quorum. You didn't set a break, you failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 82. Rules of Procedure, I request that both business interventions be entered into the minutes and I ask that you also read about both business interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6084	Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6085	I'm still going to give Mr. Komšić a pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6086	Mr. Komšić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6087	Thank you, Mrs. Pandurević. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that the Rules of Procedure say what Mr Arnaut stated, but since I know that he is a really good lawyer, and without intending to defend anyone, I am also sure that he knows that one authority, that is a general rule, that one body that has the same mandate as another body, 22 here is Parliament and it is about the Presidency, so people who are directly elected, is not one of the superiors, this body cannot, by its own act, especially by means of an act that regulates the procedure like the Rules of Procedure, prescribe the obligation to act to another body, in this case the Presidency. I mean, it's, it's notorical stuff right, it's being taught at the second year of law school. But it's true that it's in the Rules of Procedure. Well, there are other things where the Rules of Procedure prescribed obligations that can't even be imposed by the Constitution by other authorities, but that's a special story about the Rules of Procedure. Dale, we cannot prescribe the obligation to act on the BiH presidency because we are bodies, bodies in the same rank, with direct mandates. If it were the Council of Ministers, it would be a different matter. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6088	Please, I am interrupting this debate and informing the House that the provision of Article 182 has three positions and that the 3rd position states that – the BiH Presidency is not read here, participates in the sessions of the House, and the position of the 2nd member – and has the right and obligation to participate in the debate at any time. We have a representative who is the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, the conditions for discussion have been met, and that is an interpretation and my answer to this second request. Let everything that's been said be written down. And in terms of the first request, I gave a two-minute break, I just asked you not to leave the O.R. and asked to secure the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6089	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6090	So, we're done with this kind of debate, if you have anything else to say, Mr. Arnaut, here you go. If that's what this is about, I've concluded a debate about this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6091	I have the right to a replica to Mr. Komšić. If you're taking away my right...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6092	That's what you got, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6093	As far as the Constitution and the law are concerned, we've come here to discuss whether the Rules of Procedure are in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and I think that's the theme of a special thematic session. As long as something is written in the Rules of Procedure, I think we should consistently implement this Rules of Procedure, and if you think something is the opposite of the Constitution, the law, the legal principles, etc. Then I suggest you propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And the presence of at least one member of the Bureau absolutely leaves no doubt, and if you think that's wrong, then suggest changes to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6094	Thank you very much, Mr. Arnaut. 23 Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Please, I've already made my point, but I'll give you my word, no problem. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6095	I thank the chairman. I certainly am for principle. But if we talk about the principle of this provision, there were also in the old Rules of Procedure. And I... was an MP in the previous meeting, and I must say that even a Serbian member of the presidency, I have never seen in this House, and neither will the others, forgive me Mr Komšić, nor him. Also from colleagues who were before the call here, when you were sitting, Mr. Arnaut, in the presidency, they tell me that neither your member of the presidency, Mr. Silajdžić, was ever here to defend Budget. So if we're talking about principle, then we have to show it first of all by our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6096	Okay. We've finished this debate. I, therefore, can no longer allow the debate after I have given as Chairman of the House, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to inform the House what I consider. I urge Mr. Jasmin Emrić to take part in the discussion. Mr. Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6097	I thank the chairman. As regards the Budget Proposal, I would like to say this – that my general remarks are in the direction that Budget has not been made in accordance with the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, i.e. it has violated the provisions which determine the budget calendar. Well, I wouldn't count them, but I would mark it as one weakness of the adoption of the Budget of the BiH institutions. Some will say, "Well, it's an established practice." It is an established practice, we have followed it in earlier councils, but I think it is time and we have matured to reduce this practice to a minimum, that is, to break it down, because others teach us that fiscal transparency, accountability and balance of income, expenditure of the budget institution of BiH will only be achieved if we are responsible for the preparation, development, planning and adoption of budgets. Hopefully, here's how we're gonna break up with that practice. I am also interested in reading Budget, as president of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, whether the financial resources for the work of this Commission are planned, or whether the funds for the Office's work on conflict of interest are planned, because this is the new Law on conflict of interest and envisaged. I didn't find it planned by the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. I've been studying the other items, believe me, I couldn't quite determine that, so I'm curious that the ministry is showing up. What I expected and stressed in support of the new Council of Ministers is that the Council of Ministers will make a turn in support of development and strengthening the agriculture sector. I was pleased when the chairman of the Council of Ministers stressed in his exhibition the significant need to develop the agriculture sector, strengthen the coordination mechanism, which is still missing, and announced the reforms that will go in this direction. Here, in Budget, I don't notice it, I tried to find it at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, if there's an item. I can see that there is no, these are items that are identical to the Budget of last financial year, so I don't see how much these 24-exposure announcements will be possible, and in particular one item that is important, which is an increase in material-financial support for domestic agricultural production and rural areas. I think it's time for us to move from word to deed and try already in this budget, if we're not, then in the budget for 2015, to recognize this increase in material-financial support for domestic agricultural production. I also have a lot of objections that are related to some items of material costs, because we say that restrictions, or public spending savings, should be made. It's somewhere, but most of it's not. Therefore, here I would not count all the items, but I hope that the new Council of Ministers, which the justice team did not have enough time to make Budget for 2015, because it was an election year, but I hope that the next Budget will be more perspective than this, will show that the Council of Ministers is planning financial responsibility, transparency and budgetary support in line with the exposé and programme offered to this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6098	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6099	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, MPs. It is indisputable that we have received this Budget late, we should have had it at your tables before, but we know what the procedures are like and how the procedures for adopting the Budget and Draft Budget are going. What counterpart Emrić mentioned, some items are certainly not in line with that exhibition we heard from Predator Zvizdić, but it is certain that the new Council of Ministers did not participate in the full capacity of making this Budžet. There are certain items that are past and some agreements of the former, so in most agencies of state and state ministries we see an increase in salary items that can in some ways be explained by what the finance minister has already said to increase 0.5 for past work and this, but there are some other increases that are not in line with certain agreements and what we want to do. I'm glad to see an increase here in favour of police agencies and the Ministry of Security, because it is certain that this is what we will need, in order to provide both our agencies and the people working in these agencies to fight all forms of terrorism and organised crime, which we see flourishing in our country, but also those agencies are not taking all the efforts that we need. I hope there will be some changes in that part as well. There are certain parts that can be changed, but we must be convinced that this Budget is what we must bring to this House and DF, the DF Club and MPs will support this Budget, with the creation of Budget for the next year and the next period, that we must also take into account the items of savings that we have agreed on before and which we want to represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6100	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6101	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed guests, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. 25 To speak of the Budget and not have it here in front of you who is the Proposer really feels ugly, as an MP, because I should now tell someone who proposes the Budget, why this and how and how structured it is. I wonder who I'm going to do it for. The Vazduh? That's something that, as Miss Pandurević said in one sentence, is inappropriate. But since I've had this bad luck or an accident to participate in budget structuring for the first time in this way, that whoever needs to adopt it puts it on a tray and says – well, this is it, this is what I cooked you, if you don't like it, don't take it. In fact, after our constitution, we did something like we did, and then we had something that was supposed to be the basis and what this Budget is relying on, and what we raised our hand for, which is the exposé of the Council of Ministers. In part, my colleague Emrić touched himself, but partly, because there are dozens of things that we now,...the structure of the Budget, we don't see, there are none,...Mr. Bevanda, you're waving your head, but that's how it is, that's true, and I can now count them, to take them, but I need one 3-4 hours, which are not even done and processed. But since we're getting into something called a time narrow or we're getting into a canyon without going out, we're going to have to adopt something that deep down we don't get along with. And then I think that this is the Council of Ministers, according to the exposé and what the ministers and deputy ministers have accepted, they approach the spotting rebalancing and that the gentlemen who propose this, before we go with the sittings, they pass it on to those who need to vote, because whoever adopts it is responding. You're just realisers. Math is, the promoter – I adopt it – you realize it. Whoever adopted him is legally a responsible person. That's what many people forgot. And we as responsible people should say that this budget is an emergency budget and that it is not as structured as such according to what the Council of Ministers took as its platform for work, which is the exposé of the prime minister. I'll keep you for that, because I have no one here to ask you to answer me, to be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6102	Thank you. I'm really asking you, so don't repeat it twice, here's the person who's the most responsible for making the text of the Budget. It's called the finance and vault minister, and I ask you to treat the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, finance and vaults with respect. Who else if he does not answer all the questions that appear here in Parliament. So we have the most competent person, when it comes to the matter, authorized by the BiH presidency. You have a replica for Backović Zaime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6103	Since, after what I said, you said we weren't repeating ourselves, and I try to read it every time, I also try to read the laws, because it is my obligation, yes, the minister is very responsible, very responsible, but the promoter is the one who agrees and forwards it to Parliament, the promoter. Under our law, the proposer is the BiH presidency, and they are the ones we need. Whether he asks the minister to speak or not on behalf of them, that's their business, but he's a proposer. And as MPs, we have an obligation that, if we see anomalies, we notice that there is a possibility of improvement, etc., we are acting on the restructuring of the Budget, because we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6104	Thank you. 26 Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6105	Business intervention. We don't have a button for that, please be treated as a business intervention, Mr. Chairman, addressed to you. Article 78. The Rules of Procedure – if he wishes to participate in the debate, the Chairman of the House leaves the seat of the Chairman of the House and goes out for a pay phone. During that time, the House is chaired by the First Vice-President of the House. It is obvious that you took part in the debate, given that you have allowed Mr Backović a replica of your participation in the debate. I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you read about this business intervention and that business intervention, as such, enters the minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6106	Thank you. The word is Mr. Senad Šepić, the discussion. Here you go. Sit down, please, you didn't get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I can understand that in a short time, of course, there was no room to get everything that was in the exposé, or most of what was in the exposé, to be recognized in some way in this very budget proposal. Of course, there are many things that need to be corrected in some way from what we had in the past, so it will take some extra time. But since we have here, as you already call it, a person who can answer certain questions in full capacity, I only have a few dilemmas here. I'm going to support the budget, and I think in that sense, we understand what we actually have here in front of us. Since we have been standing on the European path for a long time and it is understandable that in recent years there has been no room to increase the budget for EU-led institutions, so I don't see or see a very small increase in Budgets when it comes to the Directorate for European Integration, and we know how much we will have to open new processes with Brisel as of June, is that actually enough to respond to everything we have to do in the coming period? The other thing is, I see that in several institutions we have an increase in capital investments. I think it's mostly about the expansion of capacity and the accommodation of institutions. I think that in this sense we should make a slightly different approach, when our investments are in institutions, that is, in these institutions. And maybe, in that sense, you should also make one, in the next period, one different approach when it comes to this area. And thirdly, I've heard multiple times that the chief prosecutor was saying that there's no way that the Court and the D.A. are fully doing their job when it comes to a more significant fight against organised crime and corruption, I don't see that in these articles around the Court and the D.A.'s office an increase in the amount. If we're talking about, here we're going to open up new pages when it comes to our perspective, our relationship with Brussels, the fight against corruption, the construction of the rule of law, then I think these two institutions are key institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that need to deal with this job. If, uh, and therefore, I believe that the statement by the chief prosecutor is correct, then I think that we should respond in a way that we are planning a larger amount of funds to be spent on this department to deal with organised crime and corruption, since the main 27 prosecutors said that the majority of the funds planned for both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are being spent in the area of war crimes. I think at this point, the most important thing for us is to strengthen these capacity to fight organised crime and corruption. And accordingly, I would like to see such a relationship in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6108	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We are indeed in a rather unserious situation in which the most important document this Parliament brings is not present in a year. This exhibition about the Honorable Mr. Minister really doesn't make sense, and I don't think this kind of relationship, or the management of this House, is an injured member of 182. ...it states explicitly, of course, that our Rules of Procedure, that they must attend the meetings, must be attended by one of the members of the Bureau. What Mr. Komšić said is quite surprising that we cannot... The presidency reads in several of these few BiH Constitution members that the BiH presidency implements the House's decisions. We're really making an effort for one of the presidency to come, I doubt they're in a position, we've finally had this situation in the election of the Council of Ministers, and actually, the lack of respect for this House is pretty bad for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6110	Thank you very much, Mr. Mešić. Sadami allow me to answer this question of yours, concerning the Rules of Procedure, of Rule 182. I ask you once again, I once said that there is also a provision of attitude 3 that speaks of representatives through which the BiH presidency can attend sessions and do its jobs. And, secondly, I won't be obliged, of course, to anyone on request to plead only I will do it when I think I should. I did not participate, Mr. Arnaut, in the discussion, I was merely directing the discussion, I asked my colleague to, I have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure, to treat all of us present here in the Hall, including representatives of the Council of Ministers. Of course, you can have a different opinion, I don't have anything against it, but this is my attitude and I've said it here, and it's just like that. I'm closing the debate. We move to item five of the agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, if there were no more reports for the hearing, it wasn't, and I concluded the debate. 28 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6114	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6115	Well, let's not, we can't, colleagues, if our colleagues claim they've pressed the key and we haven't shown it here, I'm not going to lead that kind of debate. Why deny an argument to someone? We won't, so the debate isn't over, and from now on, please take care of it. Mirsad Isaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6116	I thank the chairman. I think I apologize again, we really did before, and here we were, so there's no dilemma about it, but, well, I'm sorry. Since the topic of Budget is therefore a very serious topic and something that determines the government itself, that is, the country in which it is heading and direction, is. Otherwise, the budget, through the budget, is achieved by many economic, financial, social and political objectives. It also has its principles and principles, which it had in principle between 8 and 10 but always has the principle of accuracy, reality, transparency, or the public. In view of the above, an Italian economist said – give me the budget to see what kind of state it is. So this budget is a state tour. In view of the above, you will notice a number of errors that talk about the draft budget rather than the Budget Proposal. The draft budget is referred to, and the very text of the reasoning sets out the draft budget. Why does it matter? Because it's percentageally, procedurally about different terms. If the proposal then goes like this, if the draft then goes into public debate. This is what you have on page 115, 119, and in another 7 or 8 places. So it's not clear. So on page 116 – Current transfers and cash, instead of 52,196,000 should stand 5,219.000. So here I am speaking in that part of what the budget should be and those principles that have not been established. I'll switch to revenue now. Here we all...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6117	That you will later, your replica time is up, you are done with your replica, thank you very much. 29 The word has Mr. Mirsad Isaković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's all a discussion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6119	Now what, can I go on?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6121	Therefore, total income, receipts and financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina amounted to 950 million, while annuities in this year amounted to 630,518,000 and were lower by 28% or 232 million compared to last year, 750 million of indirect taxes are at 214. What concerns me is the income from the requirement to stop citizenship by 151%) or 1.220,000. Income from the requirement to cease citizenship – what does that mean? We either have too many requests for the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship or we have collected the price on that basis. He can't find it here. So, I'm talking about incomes, budget sources. The reduction in tax and cantonal fees by 900 grand is now 3 million. Flight fees across Bosnia and Herzegovina for 906,000, and now it's 1,855,000. Is this what we've been listening to these days and months before, that we've taken over the sky over Bosnia and Herzegovina in a low layer, high, etc. We really don't get it here. Current aid from abroad is decreasing by 12%, transfers from other levels of government are lower by 165 000 or 32%. A portion of the previous period is transferred unusually larger than in recent years, even by 182%, or 26.611,000, are now 41,220,000. I don't know what's going on, who hasn't spent on what grounds. If it's capital investments, then we know what the price of m2, who bought it, how much was spent and what happened. It's interesting that in this budget we don't have any receipts from the concession. Incomes for the service of external debt or due annuities are lower in amount, lower by 232,812.000. Of course, here I'm going to mention that the sum of four items, again I'm talking about the error that happened in this proposal, the sum of four items, not five, so another technical error needs to be corrected. This was about income and expenses. I'm going to try analyticalally just to figure out some of the expenditure positions. As an item – Current expenditures of gross wages and fees of 611100, it was taken in by 2% of what Mr Bećirović was talking about, or by 558 thousand. Total expenditure on energy, municipal services, etc. higher by 6% or 1,065,000, total expenditure on services – transport and fuel of citizens to 613500, higher by 3%, total expenditure on ongoing maintenance of the Conto 613700 is up by 6% or 1,105,000, total terms – banking services and payment services konto 613800 are up by 16% or 381(?). Current transfers and grenades increased by 5,219,000 or 56%. The expenditure on foreign interest konto 616200 is 413 000 or 56% more than in 2014. On capital expenditure – supply of land, forest and... conto 821100 – 1.020,000, we do not know what this is about. The supply of fixed assets in 30 forms... konto 821500 is 10,591,000 and is even higher by 103%. Total reconstruction and investment maintenance by 5,487,000 and higher by 3,739.000 than in 2014. What should not be in this budget are reserved funds amounting to 6,216,000 in which 6% of the funds for the members of the Bureau, which should certainly not be available by these funds and are in collegiate with the Constitution, which my colleague Arnaut is likely to have a little later, unless the debate is concluded, of course. This budget is just administrative. In fact, there's not a single, unfortunately, element in it that we could say is developmental. I would not agree with Mr. Šepić, who says he recognized the elements of the Council of Ministers chairman. I didn't recognize any elements in all of this, and... I analyzed the complete exposé in which I compared the budget and the exposé. You will see that there is not a single item in which we can recognize in the budget a recognizable speech, radical changes, investments, etc., etc. In this House, we listened to the exposés of the prime minister, where in 90 minutes, so 11/02, we talked about jobs that in this year should be at least 10,000, or for the first 6 months 5 thousand. In this room, reforms were promised for large and efficient public works with multiple profits. Jurisdiction remains a risk to fiscal and sustainable, fiscal status, side 5 exposures. You have also promised a strategy, indeed, of environments that will include waste management, water and air quality, as well as nature protection. In one city, the amount of benzol is 105 mg per m2, and the amount allowed is 4 mg per m2, five times a year, by the 6th exposé, who has promised to be fulfilled by the Council of Ministers. I don't see any funds here for that purpose. On this page you have precisely defined the objectives, so it says to reduce public spending,... public finances and the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina we adapt to the needs and trends of the modern world. Secondly, to start capital investments, create a business environment, etc. To create conditions for investing in technological development, innovation, the violation of a knowledge society in which skills and innovation in scientific and research work will be a measurable category. Yesterday, the innovators brought in eight medals for seven innovations from Paris, not a single coin, not a single incentive in the budget. Priorities of action, by calling it page 14, to aim without delay at stabilising public finances, reducing public spending and public administration reforms, page 14. Imports continue to grow, 50% more than exports, no stimulating premiums for exporters. On page 19 you listed the objectives and made it clear – increasing the material-financial support of domestic agriculture and production and rural areas, although we know that agriculture is in the jurisdiction of entities and cantons, which is... the esteemed representative of Emrić. There is no agency for small and medium-sized enterprises in the list of budgetary users, and you promised this in your exposé, although it is a commitment that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made by signing a European Partnership document. There is also no Fund for Development and Entrepreneurship to secure projects of national importance, page 20, which you promised in the exposé. There is no investment in the development of rail and water transport, which would increase regional integration. There's no investment in... communication infrastructure and no digitalization of tv services. On page 24, you specifically explained two proposals and this – the establishment of a Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I don't see that there's a founding stake or anything to build a bank like that. The area of culture and sport has been particularly highlighted, you said that they will not be put on the margin and that this is the most important brand of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and with this amount from these funds, the Earth Museum and similar institutions will still be closed, and athletes top and slow collectives will continue to go from door to door and ask sponsors for participation in sports games. On page 28, you concluded that such projects as are the real brand of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be financed from the budget. There's no such funds in the budget. And finally one conclusion from the beginning of this speech is – whether this Italian expert would look at this budget as to what he would have realized. What we in the SBB support is, therefore, 31 employment that is in terms of fighting corruption, terrorism, etc. and the security of the state. and we don't support employment in administration and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6122	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the presence of members of the Bureau, you have already decided that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. We do not agree with this, however, I will point out from one substance side that it is absolutely politically unacceptable that the most important document this Parliament adopts in this year, and in every year at the end, not only in this country, but in any country, that we do not have at least one member of the Presidency who, while fully respecting Mr Bevanda and his role in the whole process, according to the Constitution of BiH, is the Presidency that proposes the budget and it is incomprehensible that we do not have at least one member of the Presidency here, and especially that this is justice for some, that it is a chosen body like this. Finally, the presidency is required, also according to the BiH Constitution, to submit a report on its expenditures to the Parliamentary Assembly at least once a year. I hope you know that. Is there a conflict between two selected organs? Absolutely not. However, I think that the very fact that no member of the Bureau is present here, that as far as I am aware, was present at the Finance Commission as responsible, that he was certainly not present at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs yesterday, and that at least on the Constitutional Affairs Commission was not even a representative of the BiH Presidency, shows how serious it is to approach the subject that is in the world, means in the parliaments of democratic states the most serious. Spears break around the budget, governments drop around the budget, budget failure means not voting at the same time, no vote of confidence to the government, etc. And that seriousness, or lack of it, is also reflected through the process that preceded this debate at the House and the vote finally on the budget that will follow at the end of this session. Mr. Emrić pointed out that all deadlines foreseen by law have been breached and that is absolutely correct. We didn't get any reason why these deadlines were broken. However, what is unclear is why there was a need to break those deadlines in view of the expedition that this Presidency is with, with which the Presidency approached this issue when it received the draft budget from the Council of Ministers. So, 29.04. The Council of Ministers held a meeting in which the draft budget was established and the Bureau received this at the end of the day or perhaps even 30.04, Thursday, and on Friday was a holiday of work 1. May, and then after that came the weekend, and on Monday 04.05. The Bureau shall determine the draft budget. So it's absolutely undeniable, supported by all the delinquent acts, the accompanying acts, etc. that the BiH presidency was considering the draft budget provided to him by the Council of Ministers less than two working days, and we are talking about over a billion and a half marks a year. And then when you see that the BiH Presidency has been considering the draft budget for less than two working days, then it becomes clear to you why none of the BNIH members have honored to come here and explain it, or at least to show with their presence that they are behind the budget. Now, this is an extremely extensive document, over 300 pages. So when the members of the Bureau read it in less than two working days without saying it, they discussed it, etc. So, according to them, they are not, since the only intervention they had on the Draft is to increase from 4% to 6% of the amount that can be 32 individuals, as it is contained, so the legal term that I have never seen anywhere in the law, in the bill, stands in the Bill – members of the BiH presidency each individually makes a decision on the criteria for the allocation of funds of the intervention current reserve, based on the legal or physical person to which the funds will be allocated. Well, this one's not that different from arbitrary because it comes down to it. No one needs any consultation, no one needs a single decision. And now I'm going to say the number, so it's a total number of 318,960 marks, or 106,320 marks per member of the Bureau. Especially with a member of the Bureau. Now let me see if this is in accordance with the Constitution. Well, of course not. The BiH Constitution makes clear how decisions are made in the presidency. Most decisions are taken by consensus, there are, of course, constitutional provisions that speak of certain decisions being made, so that they can make two members of the presidency. And then also for certain decisions that are thus made, it is vetoed by the third and confirmation of that in the National Assembly, that is, the homeland of the people of the Federal Parliament, etc. But nowhere in the BiH Constitution, as much as I've read it, I haven't been able to find that one member of the presidency can make these decisions, especially with 100,000 marks of the budget reserve that this member of the presidency decides it should. And it's a classic vote buying, so there's no confusion here. By 100,000 marks every year, 2015. - 100 grand, 2016. - 100 grand and build someone a stadium - you get a captain. It's literally about that. Now, you see, some of the members of the Bureau promised 100,000 jobs, and then they said it wasn't for four years, for this term, but that it was for eight years, so they said it was in 10 years. And in the end, it will turn out that they have not promised 100,000 new workers but new 100,000 workers, because that is what this Budget Proposal is going to get if adopted. New 100,000 marks every year from workers. From who else but from the workers. ...are the ones who fill the budget, including the budget reserve, and then the members of the Bureau come in fine and get 100,000 marks from those workers. So I'm just curious if we're going to get an explanation soon that there weren't 100,000 new workers, but a new 100,000 from the workers. Yesterday, I also spoke to the Constitutional Commission about other reasons why this Budget Law proposal does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so when it comes to these 318,960 marks, it does not comply with the Constitution. It is not in line with the legal system because the Law on Preventive Discrimination clearly states that a special budget item will be conducted in the budget of the BiH Ombudsman's Office for Combating Discrimination. And we hear great messages about the fight against discrimination and you are not in a position, or the Presidency is unable to comply with this provision of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. So at my comment yesterday, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury told me that this law would certainly change. However, my role on the Constitutional Commission is not to determine whether something is in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, potential, future, after the changes, etc., but rather current. And it is currently not in line with the legal system because we do not have a special item in the budget of the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights which is necessary for the operation of the Special Anti-discrimination Department. So where are you when it comes to fighting discrimination? We also heard from the chairman of the Council of Ministers after terrorist attacks in Zvornik that one of the answers is that the SIPAs will increase the budget by nearly 4 million marks. But here in reason we see that 2,900,000, so almost 3 million marks were allocated for a multi-year building project. So, an effective increase in the SIPA budget is just a million marks which is absolutely insufficient at the moment when we need SIPA, when we need SIPA capacities, and it's not right, at least to say, to deceive the public. When you say 4 million marks sound a lot, but if 3 million of them go for the building then an effective budget increase is indeed a million marks. SIPA should be given a total of 33 4, the SIPA budget should then be increased by 7 million marks, and other agencies, of course, to fight crime, terrorism and law enforcement, etc. When it comes to the BiH Presidency and the 100,000 marks that are on their own, the Council of Ministers wanted to give them some 75, so they brought it up to 100,000 marks themselves, the SBB Club will submit amendments where these funds that they imagined would be rerouted to a much more necessary purpose – education and culture, to be specific, but more will be spoken of by my colleague, Club Chief Mirsad Đonlagić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6124	Thank you. The word is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you once again. Of course, I join all of these remarks that have been made, both of the members of the SBB Club and the other colleagues who talked about it, and I wouldn't repeat it, but I would refer to two initiatives that I recently referred to. It is a science-related initiative, i.e. the means intended for the functioning of the Innovator Club and that I launched my own initiative a proposal, in fact, launched an initiative to establish certain criteria for sport and to know what level it decides in this country on what level of sport it will be allocated to. My proposal went as if successful individuals and representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina who participate in regional competitions, European championships, world championships and Olympic games were financed in as much capacity as the state is able from its state level, and not that, let's say, when you look at the funds that have been shared by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and were intended for sport, they have been shared with local character clubs. So, look, it's very interesting that you see what environment these small collectives came from that should be funded by the logic of things from the level of municipalities and new cantons, especially since there are constitutional competences there. Of course I'm aware of the fact that these things I'm talking about aren't defined as constitutional powers at the state level, but the fact is that such an institution exists and that these funds are shared from the state level. Well, since it's already being shared, I've proposed this criterion to be, as I would say, by the logic of things, the state to take care of state matters and those who affirm the state in the international competition system. However, I got the answer, just this one, that there is no criterion. So make that criterion and don't share some local clubs there for some local competitions, but let it try to provide and at least partially aliminate international performances by athletes from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these funds that are now being proposed, very interesting that we are in previous years, 2006, 2005 and '07. The years had more resources, so those funds were reduced. Now, the truth is, there's been some increase, but it's still not enough funding, but it's not even on the level of funds from five years ago. So, I'm talking about sports. When I talk about science here first of all, I think that the possibility of Bosnia taking part in the framework, Bosnia and Herzegovina in the framework of EUREKA projects, Horizon 2020 or..., that is, from a cycle of FP7 projects where I pay membership fees for such projects, and in fact, we have not provided any preconditions that can be applied to these funds. And that is why I suggested, also in this initiative, that for funding for science, and above all for these funds, this grant to prepare 34 institutions from Bosnia and Herzegovina so that they can apply to these European funds and these innovators, to allocate 550,000 marks, which is approximately the level of four years ago. According to the current Budget Proposal, these funds are not enough, i.e. they are neither close to what I started with my initiative, so I was not making up anything new and deliberately giving these figures proposals, but I was referring to the figures that were already proposed in the previous years. So one year, in 2005, it seems to me, the year was 1,300,000 for sport, and this year, 952,000 was proposed for innovators, 117,000 for science 444,000 for science. So, speaking of science and innovators, that's something we can, actually where we should invest significantly, because of these things this Bosnia and Herzegovina can expect something, some prosperous solutions, some dizziness. which will give investors as well as those... to provide these starting jobs for themselves or themselves, to start taking care of themselves and not waiting for the state to solve everything for them. Therefore, I think, especially given what my colleague Arnaut mentioned, we will give these amendments which, in fact, will go towards these funds being allocated, with this proposal, to members of the Presidency, and those members of the Presidency having and will already have the opportunity to influence the distribution of these funds, that these funds which we consider neither transparent nor logical, are neither correct, and now not to serve any more difficult expressions, that these funds are allocated to these budget lines provided for by the innovators, designed for culture. Of course, when it comes to culture, I want to say that you all know very well what kind of cultural workers and cultural institutions are in, that this is something, a maternal relationship that absolutely cannot be interpreted, understood and approved. And that's why we think it's going to be correct and fair and I think we should come across an understanding with other colleagues about these amendments that are going to relate to the allocation of these funds that are intended for members of the Bureau individually. They can do without that 100 grand, of course. With this in mind, all this is said about the Budget, all these remarks that are highlighted for the Budget, and again I am going back to that Article 182 where in paragraph 2 says - the mandatory presence of the Bureau member at the points they propose. So it's a liability, so it's a decimal and then it goes on. I am not a lawyer, but if there were no such words – the mandatory presence of a member could not be, it could also be tied to the other questions. Other issues include the discussion of their representatives on matters that do not concern the exciption of the proposal they have made. personally as far as I'm concerned, except, given the presence of Mr. Bevanda, whom I have and of whom I have, which he says, only words of praise, but I don't think he's going to be affected by what we think is absolutely necessary for one of the members of the Bureau to be present. Taking into account all of this and the inadequate response and interpretation of our objections to this Article 182 I am free to say that the Club of the SBB will not support such a draft budget, especially if our proposals are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6126	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss it? Now I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the point of the five agenda, that's, uh, 35 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, with Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 10th session of the House, held on 08.04.2015. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the report on 30.04.2015. The report is negative, the Commission did not support the draft law and previously adopted an amendment that reads: Article 8. The proposal for a law of Section 1 shall be deleted. Items 2 to 6 become points 1 to 5. So we have a negative report. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the six-day point, that's Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6129	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, about the Police Officers Act, just one sentence. For a long time, it has been working on this Law and a huge number of amendments have been contained in this Law. I personally think, and I believe that a large number of MPs can share with me that the amendments to the Law that over half of its contents have new members, practically required the adoption of a new law. However, starting with the fact that this Law will address significant issues, that it has long been brought into line, then I believe that this Law should be passed in this context, but at the same time I think that the competent ministry should also approach the creation of a law that should certainly be more comprehensive and cover many of these facts that I now point to, there is no logic, therefore, that in this way the amendments and additions of the Law are made. However, I am going back to this one single sentence, which is if the legal solution contributes to resolving the issue of police officers then this Law, as far as I'm concerned, has the support and, of course, the SDS's Club, but in the future, it is important to take care when it comes to such spectrum of changes that this is about making a new legislation, because it is really very difficult for a man to manage right now. But given that a large number of institutions participated in the creation of this 36 Law, this law should certainly be supported, because it seems better to support it than to now go into the making of a new law. It would certainly take a year, until then... waiting for solutions, I think it would be a worse variant. Here, just that one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6130	Thank you very much. Since no one's answered and doesn't answer the word, I'm closing the argument. We're moving to agenda seven, that's Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Election Law – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 23.02.2015 with a request for an urgent examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. At the 7th session of the House, held on 26.02.2015, no request for emergency procedure was adopted as well as a shortened procedure, and it was concluded that the draft law would be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 30.04.2015. The opinion is negative. The Commission believes the draft law supplementing the BiH Election Law is not in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6132	I thank the chairman. Well, I also have a certain obligation, so I'm talking about this, since this is the first time that this bill has been proposed at the House of Representatives session, has been removed several times, since the Constitutional Legal Commission has requested an extension of deadlines, etc. Taking into account all this, it is necessary to note, therefore, that this is about the addition of the electoral law on only one issue that would allow for the completion of the Serbian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, which was left unfulfilled after the previous elections, and that of the 17 delegates in the Club of the Serbian People currently has only 13, unlike the other two constitutive peoples who participate in the House in full capacity. The bill envisioned that the missing seats be filled in from the delegation order, filled out in the order of candidates for the cantonal assembly of the non-chosen nation, based on the total number of votes they received. And this bill is completely, therefore, completely rewritten, i.e. put into one legislative form from the Central Election Commission Report, which proposed this way just as the first proposal to fill this Club of Delegates. The Constitutional Commission held a debate on this issue shortly after the bill was adopted and after the debate, that is, to give the whole history, the first time it considered this issue the Constitutional Commission decided to address the Federation Parliament to amend the Federation Constitution if this Parliament considers it necessary. And what I saw in the archives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that request was gone. However, since nothing came back from the Federation Parliament, which could also be considered as being necessary by the Federation Parliament that the amendments to the Federation Constitution were not necessary, given that it was not found to be consistent with this issue, it is clear that Parliament of the Federation considered that the amendments to the Federation Constitution were not necessary, the Constitutional Commission again sat down and then adopted the following conclusions – that it is necessary to approach the completion of the Election Law, it concluded that various opinions were expressed in the debate on the compatibility of the draft law with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. So, this is now the most important thing, the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission session of 23.03.2015, is that it found that various opinions were expressed during the debate on the compliance of the Bill with the legal system and not with the Constitution. And indeed no one at that session disputed the compliance of the law with the BiH Constitution, at that second session of the Constitutional Commission where this was discussed, concluded that it was necessary for the House of Representatives to hold a debate on this issue and again invites the Federation Parliament to declare on the need to amend the Federation Constitution and the Commission thinks it is necessary to seek the opinion of the Council of Ministers on this issue. Now, I don't know whose failure, but it's never been done, so it's never again asked for an opinion from the Federation Parliament and it's never been asked for by the Council of Ministers. And it was concluded at last session of the Constitutional Commission, Mrs Pandurević, who is not here now, but who chaired the Commission, I think other members of the Commission can confirm it, she said to my question – did we have the conclusion that it was again, said, "We did, we will see what happened, never gave me feedback." So, regardless of the conclusion, it's not respected. And then at her session yesterday, the Constitutional Legal Commission found that the draft law on the addition of the Election Law does not comply with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. Now here you have allowed a very dangerous game, because representatives of the SDS and SNSD have pushed you through the conclusion that the Proposal for an Electoral Law is not in line with the BiH Constitution. And that opinion was delivered here to the House for decision. Now, if the representatives of the Federation's parties, if I don't call any concrete ones, think that the draft law supplementing the Election Law is not in line with the Constitution of BiH, which is the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which was voted by representatives of the SDS and SNSD, then vote for it, but we will see how next time you will ever change the Election Law again, if you now accept the opinion of the Constitutional Commission that it is not in accordance with the Constitution. Because last session concluded that there were different opinions on compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, and at yesterday's session, Mrs Pandurević, who chaired the session, offered the conclusion that the draft Law on the Completion of the Election Law was not in line with either the Constitution or the legal system. So, something that's never been on the Commission. Now it will be very interesting to see how the SDA, here and to call, will vote on this Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I know that the representatives of the SDA have been abstentioned, but if you are now abstentioned then you will allow this Opinion to pass, you will allow the conclusion that the draft law on the amendment of the Electoral Law is not in line with the BiH Constitution, you will question the sustainability of the Electoral Law, you will question all and other proposals for additions, amendments, etc. Well, go ahead, if that's what you think is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest. And as for the very fill-up of the Serbian People's Club, we've heard different excuses, we've heard that the Federation Constitution doesn't allow a way, which absolutely doesn't stand, we have the principle of legal hierarchy that I've talked extensively about on the Constitutional Commission, there's no need to repeat it here, we have decisions of the Constitutional Court that say the state law is above the entity constitution, etc. And we have concrete examples, we have the Constitution of Republika Srpska, which says a citizen of the Republic cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited, and we have state law, we have state contracts that say that every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the RS entity, can be extradited to both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia for certain crimes. And the Constitution of Republika Srpska explicitly says that a citizen of the Republic cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited. So how do you explain the state law, state contracts that allow extradition of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus the citizens of Republika Srpska to Serbia and Croatia regardless of this, is that right, a conflicting entity provision. And when it comes to BiH's Election Law, the Federation's constitution is much more explicit, than when it comes to the way of elections, it says more explicitly that the House of Peoples must provide parity, that the House of People must provide parity, and then it goes even more explicitly and says so – and that each club in the order of the constituent peoples counts by 17 members. And we now have 13 members in line of the Serbian people, some parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Federation, have the practice that the party decides that a minister will plead, etc., I hope that this will not fill the Club in the order of the Serb people, but I am almost convinced that, unfortunately, 3.5 years later, we will welcome the next elections with the Serbian People's Club, which numbers only 13 members, and the Croatian and Bosniak people's clubs count 17, and that is a full number of members, and that is a shame for the Federation, but also for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this could have been resolved in this way in accordance with the explicit recommendations of the Central Election Commission, which includes representatives of all three nations and others, from both entities, and who unanimously suggested what I had just proposed in the form of the law and what they eventually confirmed. But let's go back to what will be voted on today, so today we will vote on the Constitutional Commission Report that the draft law supplementing the Election Law is not in line with the BiH Constitution, so let's see if the SDA supports it and whether it will be abstention and whether it will let something like that pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6133	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to be very brief and just some details from my colleague Arnaut's discussion to underline, underline, as very important, but also what might be the reason and motive of all here who are present to accept such a proposal. So, we often hear it here, well, it doesn't matter what it says in the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't have to be, and then the law says something predicts, so we can do it if we want to do it differently, so we can do it differently. So this is about the desire of non-hidden intentions, as was present in the discussions at one of the previous sessions, and it's about the desire to solve this problem this year. It is unacceptable that one year or in one election period we have a Croatian Club that is not filled, in the second election round we have or cycle we have a Club of Serbs that is not filled, and with this solution we actually compensate for this lack and this is filled by the Srbin klub for this year so that we have full constitutional competences, rights and obligations of the constitution and equality of the people we have satisfied. I hope that, we will have this one point here, the proposal for the selection of the Interresor Group for the new Election Law, that it will be sanctioned under these proposals of the new Electoral Law, but our wish and goal this year was to correct this deficit, especially because it brings no one else into an unequal 39 position but only one people who is in an unequal position as regards the House of the Federal Parliament, to compensate with this one proposed amendment. And another thing I want to say, here is the obvious lack in the way Parliament works that the vote is at the end of the day, so it happens that these colleagues from the position are not present here, but that is why this last row to my great pleasure is present throughout the session. And perhaps you should consider taking the vote after the debate on each agenda. That's how I think we'll ensure the presence of the session throughout the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6135	Thank you. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm closing the argument. We move to a point of eight agendas – Commission Report of the College
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6136	... The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission clearly states that it is not justified and that the members of the Commission who voted against the Bill's proposal will present their views at the House of Representatives session, so I think it is necessary, I was hoping that someone would come forward, but as it is not... [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6137	Well, you have the right to think so. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eight-day stand, Ad. 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The College as the Commission failed to agree on an emergency request. We will subsequently declare the request in the second round of voting. There's no discussion here. Let's go to point nine on the agenda, that's Ad. Nine. BiH Council of Ministers' 2014 Work Report
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6140	Dear President, co-chairmen, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen present here in the hall, I welcome you all. A few words about this izvjeće. So here, finally, Mr. Chairman read the Commission's position on European integration. We, therefore, supported the Council of Ministers report by having a dilemma, and perhaps other committees had a dilemma, that no representatives of the Council of Ministers were present at the Committee's meeting, other than the Directorate's, or Directorates for European Integrations, so we were in a dilemma, so whether at all we were discussing, what is likely to occur elsewhere and several times we pointed out, and this time here I point out and ask that the Commissions work on their reports to find someone who can give us answers to certain questions. We have, however, considered the reports, of course, in the part in which European integration is concerned. I will just point out a little bit, not a conclusion, but one, so to speak, the appeal to Parliament again, or the Council of Ministers to insist on the implementation of the conclusions made two years ago at both Houses of Parliament, which is that the Council of Ministers' reports contain a special report on European integration, i.e. these processes. They are here now, so I made a little joke at the meeting of the Committee, Mrs Savić said, they, i.e. I don't know Mr Genjac, who is a member of this committee, they understand you and everyone has in their section in particular, so the report on European integration, but it's really hard to follow, because it's a big document and, therefore, it really has every agency, directorship, the ministry that kind of part. So the intensity of this conclusion, in our opinion, was that, therefore, in reporting, we have one special report on European integration. Who's gonna make it? The main secretariat, the Directorate, the Directorate for European Integration, is irrelevant, but we think this would be better given that the SAA will come into force, which makes it more meaningful. So we expect that this conclusion will be respected as was his intention for the next reporting, that means at least once a year. Namely, through Twinning projects, a little bit about it, please ___________(?) 42 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6141	It's a discussion. Let me run the session. Go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6142	So, through Twinning projects on the development of the capacity of our administration, therefore, there are increasingly ideas for the development of a sector for European integration within the framework of parliamentary and joint services. And after this SAA agreement, I believe that on this trail, therefore, we will all be together for such a single solution and that with a solution to deliver a special report, and we will also make one special way of cooperating with the Directorate for European Integration, then this process will be fully monitored, I mean this parliamentary commission in front of you that appointed us, or both of us. Now that's so much about it. And the second thing I'd like to do is just two or three things I'd like to turn away from it is the report now in general. In the section of the report relating to the Ministry of Finance on page 44, I noticed that the Ministry there once said by observation that at present, I do not know how to understand it, had stopped its activities on the adoption of comprehensive amendments and the addition of the Law on Salaries and Restitutions because the initiative was launched around, you know it was a few sessions ago, white bread. So here's what I'm proposing, not to suggest any particular conclusion, but to suggest the Ministry of Finance to continue working on this project and to offer us this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, a comprehensive law... When it comes to the section of the Report relating to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I asked the Committee on the subject, whose member I was, since I had not seen in the Report anywhere, for 2014 that the procedure included the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System. So he's gone at all. I know that he ended up like he did, but there's no way in the report that this bill passed the procedure, how he passed them so I wouldn't elaborate here right now. Even there, it was voted in the Committee and said that we cannot add that to the Council of Ministers' report on the work, that part of the Council of Ministers' composition. So since it didn't go there at the Committee, because I was lonely in it, so there's no point in having something that was in circulation, it was, even Parliament was talking about this subject, it's not in the report at all, nor the Council of Ministers, nor in the section relating to that relevant ministry. So I ask that it be added afterwards that, therefore, this Law was in the procedure and the way it went, right? When it comes to the part relating to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, displaced persons, I read the same thing. It seems to me that there is some kind of interest in the ministry, when it comes to national minorities, in the Roma group, but I have not seen anything, or I apologize if I have overlooked it, so there is nothing about other national minorities, nor their status, nor their position, nor the problems they face. So here's what I'm proposing, if that's what I'm going to do, I'm going to break into one conclusion, but I'm suggesting that the Ministry about it is manifest and that if what they find necessary is an annex to this report, because it doesn't make sense, so we don't talk about it and we seem to say that we have 17 national minorities. This is about what I have for the Council of Ministers' work report, with the part relating to the Agency for Work with Foreigners only noticing statistics, but I will keep that part of the debate to myself. When there's a debate about this security situation at the next session, I hope, because I've only seen some of the agency's statistical indicators there, even with others, it doesn't really deal with the essentials of how it happens. So they tell you of 10 people who have been vetted on the side that two have made an extradition somewhere, and then you can't conclude anything from that, you don't have any data on how they came in, why they came in, how 43 things like this happen, what they think about it. So that statistics sometimes can just be such a clean farce, nothing really says except that they were doing something, but I'm gonna say that maybe then a little... I thank you and I will support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6143	Thank you very much. One notice. So during this discussion, so during the discussion, we lost the quorum, and I didn't want to interrupt the discussion, and then until the end of the discussion we're in a situation of quorum. According to the Ethics Code, no MP should leave this room without calling the chairman of the House and explaining why he's coming out. I have never heard from anyone before, I call on Parliament's services to lead, so two MPs have come forward so far during today's session, I call on Parliament's services to take care of each moment when the quorum of which the MPs do not exist and to inform the Commission, which takes care of the Code. So, we can't work differently, I invite you to act like one. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6144	I thank the chairman. And indeed, business intervention actually, you just told me, in an extremely ugly way, you have the right to think so. This is Parliament, and it is an esteemed function that you perform, and I would only ask you, at least when it comes to me, to refrain, because I, yes, have the right to an opinion, but you have an obligation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to decide the justification of any objection regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, when I, as an MP or any other give MP intervention, you have an obligation to decide on that objection. Whatever decision you make is your function. But your function does not give you the right to tell me – you have the right to think so and to ignore this part of the Rules of Procedure. Because I felt ugly, not because you told me to, but because you told me to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6145	The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6146	I thank the chairman. I'll try to be as brief as possible because it's about the report on the work of the last Council of Ministers. The SDS club won't and can't support this report. There are two basic reasons for such a thing. The first reason is that, only when we got the opinion of the Republika Srpska government on this report did we see how much luck it was for the Republic of Serbia that we kicked the SNSD out of the Council of Ministers. According to the RS Agriculture Minister, based on seven sides, the former minister, Mr. Tučić, transferred a dozen responsibilities to Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to Mr. Petar Đokić of the RS government, Minister Tučić again acted as a free shooter and transferred competences to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that I also have an opinion on the work of former Minister Nović where the RS government also says he has transferred responsibilities 44 to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All black on white documented. I can only say thank Bog, so we got rid of them in that case. The second reason why we can't support this report is because we got what we wrote from the Directorate for indirect taxation. It's a shame that an institution that has 6 billion dollars wrote us a report on page 5. And we see in that report that last year we had an increased VAT return by the eye, I think, 17%. E, since we had some statements in the Pandora affair that we could all read, I am very interested in why we have so much increased VAT returns. I am interested in saying whether VAT has been returned, we had a meeting of the Finance Commission of the Directorate for indirect taxation which said that the highways were also the reason, I am interested in whether the VAT was returned to the Prnjavor-Doboj highway. I therefore fully support these conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission to be delivered to us, to the Commission, a list of all entities to which VAT has been recovered in excess of 50,000 marks. We also see in Budget for this year that the Direct Taxation Administration is implementing some significant software projects. The Finance and Budget Commission also requested information for one of these projects. I am seeking and supplementing this conclusion, I have today another conclusion which requires the Directorate for indirect taxation to submit to the Finance and Budget Committee of the Representatives' House full information on the tender and concluded contract for the creation of a new tax application in the Information System of the Direct Taxation Authority for whose purpose 8 million are planned in Budget. Namely, I tell you, I don't really know who got that contract, but I can tell you in advance that... And I'm going to remind you that both of these companies, I'm going to make a really big apology if it's not one of these, but I'm going to remind you that both companies are involved in some not-so-good and not-remarkable contracts and that we've had some big affairs about, and that's why I'm asking you to see who's doing it. The third thing that the Finance and Budget Commission, on Mr Sokolović's proposal, has also requested is to provide us with detailed information as to why the funds are intended to buy space for the Direct Taxation Directorate in Banja Luka have not yet been spent. It's been a year, they have the resources, so far they can build a building themselves, conduct a tender procedure and build a building. I'd like to know if it has anything to do with what, here's what I'm going to say publicly that after it happens, when it's known that we warned about it, does it have anything to do with a businessman close to Milorad Dodik and a businessman close to Finance Minister Zoran Tegeltija not being able to agree on whose building they're going to sell? Will the Direct Taxation Authority buy that building, Milet Radišić, or will they buy Kajin? Banja Luka is buzzing about this conflict and we just want to know why there isn't, why the indirect taxation administration doesn't make the building itself. And I therefore fully maintain these conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission, and I ask my colleagues to accept this one additional, so the conclusion that we are about to submit and relating to the software application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6147	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. jasmin Emrić, come in. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6148	I thank the chairman. I'm also joining the debate in a way that neither will I support the Council of Ministers' work report last year. How am I looking at this report? Well, based on statistical data, and the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers has made an effort to display and summarise all these statistics and from these statistics, we can see that only 56% of the planned work was carried out in 2014. What's unacceptable for the reports is that, for example, some of the agencies are planning one programming activity and they are not implementing this programme activity. Zero execution. Either something doesn't fit in this Methodology of Making Reports or we're going to have to, in a way, change these summary reports because it concludes that they didn't do anything, and in the descriptive part there are jobs they've done. Although these are the constant jobs that are in their jurisdiction, but if some software activity is planned for one single one, then you should see why it is not done. Of course, here the political ambience also affects the Council of Ministers' report on the work and the reason for such poor work by the Council of Ministers is this very political environment, i.e. the absence of a majority in the House of Representatives which supports this work, so, among other things, as we have seen from the reasons why the Council of Ministers' work is very poor in 2014. Someone will say so it was an election year, then everyone leaves their jobs, we all do the election campaign, and we forget the program of work we create ourselves and who we adopt, and then we don't do that work programme. So that practice should also be changed in the future. What is important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, which is the harmonisation of legal legislation, if we look through this report in 2014 then we see that 20 laws have been established by the Council of Ministers since the planned 46. So, this is a percentage that is not acceptable to the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we say needs to speed up the European path, and therefore the new Council of Ministers' meeting is very busy, and changes habits and established practices, work is accepted and this House of Representatives speeds up the delivery of all these necessary laws which, here in 2014 unfortunately ended up in statistics as zero. Also when it comes to the Council of Ministers' Report, these formulations must be accurate. It can't be said as – the Mayan floods were at least catastrophic. So we know what's going on. Things need to be called exactly the legal provisions as they are, so it was a natural disaster. It cannot then be described and picturesquely explained. I've made this one observation because this is still the Council of Ministers' report. The Council of Ministers is the Government of the State and must be far more precise. At the meetings of the Commission, we have touched all these discussions which were within the competence of the Commission and therefore I will not repeat these discussions but will say that I expect more quality work from the new Council of Ministers and we hope that we will improve this statistics in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6149	Thank you. The word is Mr. Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 46 Just a few words, though we may have missed this point, we have nothing to talk about here but wasting our time. What to say about those who stopped Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, did not meet the requirements of the MAP so that Bosnia and Herzegovina would be in NATO alliance or who adopted the budget when it was spent, when we spent money. It's common to say about the dead all the best, but Bogami damn it, this guy doesn't deserve it. I think it's time we stopped discussing this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6151	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I'm taking a break until 2:00 for lunch. So, break until 2:00, we resume at 2:00. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. Ten. Reports from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: (a) Report on issued documents on external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013, (b) Report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6154	Thank you. Here, I would like to comment as someone who has been working in the dedicated industry for 37 years, namely, it was once the company AD “Orao” now, the Eagle Air Force and now AD “Orao” from Bijeljina. I am currently also serving as executive director for economic affairs so that obtaining permits in my jurisdiction and where I am also directly involved in obtaining licences for... importing and exporting goods and services of dual and military use. We are also classified in the category of dual-use products, regardless of which we do not produce mine-explosive and deadly means, but it is about producing and refurbishing jet engines and belonging spare parts. 47 I should have a few suggestions and a proposal for one conclusion, which you will hear later. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, there are about 40 companies registered for the production and transport of goods, about twenty of them in Republika Srpska, and that number is changing because many are under bankruptcy, we now have a known example of "Chajevac". But to cut short, one of the companies, i.e. the legal entities that are currently working and doing a great job, is precisely the company called "Orao" from Bijeljina, which has 420 employees. We, of course, provide regular salaries to employees, but one of the dangers that currently lurks when it comes to business and liquidity is the time to obtain export licences and imports of dual and military goods. So I wanted to discuss all this from the aspect of improving the existing situation to shorten those deadlines. Namely, we and the goods we have on... when we offer an option of 90 days precisely because of fear of, in order not to break the time of obtaining licenses, and you know today the time itself is, is, whether, a key factor regardless of the quality and price so that many customers and give up when they see the offer for 90 days. I've been looking at reports that have been properly made, and I would point out and suggest that something else be added here, because in these columns and reports we see final buyers as suspicious as, let's say, India, Malaysia and the country and total traffic, but we don't see who these legal entities are that have applied for obtaining permits and we don't see a normal time of issuing permits. They have a 60-day legal framework, and I specifically when it comes to my company, we're about to get the 58th, 9th or 60th day licenses, and very often it's overstepped because of some administrative mistakes and so, so I urge you to see from these columns whether someone is privileged when it comes to obtaining permits or to each of the same arches. It is normal, we know ourselves, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina large profits are made from the sale and production of goods for military and dual purposes, but I think that could be improved, and in the way of bargaining with end-users. We obviously know everything in these rooms that we produce, but we don't know how to sell, so we need those intermediaries who, as the people say, take off the Kajmak and leave us a minimum profit. From that point of view, it would be interesting in this proposal to see who these buyers are, i.e. intermediaries, exporters and how long it is time to obtain their permits to do something about it, improve and provide safety to companies that work and produce these goods and services. We have here... in Bosnia and Herzegovina registered and UNIS-Group dealing with, as well as "Jugoimport" in Belgrade, the export of goods. So, in future times, I think we should rely on registered companies and our embassies, which exist in these desires, which would provide us with direct contacts and create an opportunity to directly negotiate with their defence ministries, etc. Now that was from me, and I can read, if you agree, a proposal for a conclusion that would read: – The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is required to provide the updated tables, i.e. the annexes of these two reports relating to exports, imports of arms, military equipment and products of dual and special purpose, in a way that will be supplemented with the data which will show the name of the companies that have received the necessary export-import or temporary import-exports, normal and the column of the end-user... and the period in which the licences are issued. So the date of submission of the application, the date of issue of the licence with the date of processing of the application, let's see if it's 60, 30, 15, 90 days, etc. Well, that would be mine, so I'll hand it over.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6155	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6156	Thank you. Offered by a previous discussion, not wanting to be considered a replica, because it's not a replica, but rather a confirmation, I'd like to say a few sentences. In the section of the dedicated industry, and from the aspect of further development and experience that people in this country have, and through the analysis of what I've got, it's clear that this fragmentation and decoupling in the entire chain of the dedicated industry is huge. In the exportation of what is called a product or product of the dedicated industry, it cannot occur individually but is there and in front of the country. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I know the circumstances because I've worked on these jobs for a few years. Earth. And precisely because of these partial interests of trade, lobbyist and what we would now say to entities, we have complete dysharmony in the development of the dedicated industry and the placement of the product of the dedicated industry. It's a fact of fact. The ministry of jurisdiction, we are only talking about permits here, would, and in the interest of the entire state, and in the interests of both entities, be able to think about how and in what way to carry out a cumulative review and cumulatively, I call it, a proposal for a plan to develop a dedicated industry, can't go on an entity level. I said the reason he can't. And it's not even jurisdiction at all, it's not about jurisdiction, it's about the lives of those who are still working on the development of what they're doing, and not about collapsing through a commercial and interesting lobby where you're going to find very often that's actually just a transfer of something where, something that's produced, let's say, even somewhere else, that's why there's relevant data. The overall scheme of the dedicated industry, and there's a problem, because they now appear under the same name from one and another entity of the company, I'm talking about the same name and last name of the company, which the foreign customer cannot understand and cannot accept when two companies of the same name and last name are offered to him on one job, only this one stands with the RS, and this one stands with the Federation, which is inappropriate, they don't know it. And compatibility, here's the gentleman who said he's from the Remont Institute and then we start by ourselves, the ones who know what it was, what about the repairs, the repairs. The huge one in Hadziæi... so I don't pick them up one by one, what's in Banja Luka, what's up with Sokola, equipment and so on? And I suggest that, hopefully, the stenograms are delivered to the rest ministers, because they should read from here too, because they're not these benches, we're not talking to these benches, I feel like we're apologizing to each other here, and there's the end. And of those who should hear this, there's not a single one, it's beautiful, we're an example and we're a representative of a congregation that's telling itself that they're being delivered, and I'm asking that their records be delivered, that they at least read them, that they know what the parliamentarians said. That the resolute minister thinks about how to find a unique performance of the dedicated industry, externally, does not need me in Bosnia, but needs me externally out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then we wouldn't have had the shut-down, as the gentleman says, electronics -- Rudi Čajevac, we wouldn't have had the Shut-off Knight, we wouldn't have had Bugojne, we wouldn't have had the Sokol shut-off, we'd have just because of that mutual, and the gentleman wouldn't have imported the explosives, but he'd have all kinds of Knights, not this, not lighters, not in a row. We're like this, we're called for purpose, we give, we give licenses, what's real is our product is terribly questionable. So I suggest that he thinks, see and propose to this Assembly how to execute that, it's not homogenization, it's an importing of an economy called purpose and it can be... and with 49 of the largest gains in this country. We only have two of those, it's the wood industry and the dedicated industry, everything else they're saying is an empty story. '91. Before the war the wood industry had a net profit of $450 million, the dedicated industry was in '91. The year had $800m, net income in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's more than all of what everyone's doing together today, but we don't have a net, because we're now more importing than we're exporting. The data is not incorrect, you can check it out from the '91 statistical yearbook. A year. That's what we as parliamentarians have to plead to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6158	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. Moving to the next item on the agenda, that's point 11, Ad. 11. Report on participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces members in peace support operations, BiH Presidency material The report was delivered in the procedure on 05 January 2015. The relevant Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered its opinion on 24 April 2015. The report was adopted and sent to the homes in the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 12th agenda, that's Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6161	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs. Here, for starters, I will say that I am the Report of the Board of Appeal, although with questions, remarks, perhaps reluctantly, I still supported it when it was spoken of by the Commission for Defence and Security. However, after an analysis of the material that we received on the initiative of distinguished representatives of Aleksandra Pandurević, therefore the material that offers the data, even if incomplete, about the various fat paid, I would say to the committees, what other bodies of the Council of Ministers, that is the material, you have seen it, we have all received it, which simply must be seriously concerned or cut you down, after which I have again dealt with this report by the Board of Appeal and decided not to support it for at least a few reasons this time. The Committee is a parliamentary body of seven members and these are civil servants. It's their job, I'd say, to see from the report and what was legally handed down to them, I'd say she's a pusher, somehow come as doctors of general practice, so they're getting complaints about the work of police officers, recording, forwarding, tracking, all in the job description, so nothing is essentially solved. For this work on the Committee, you can see from the report's analysis, something but not all from other sources, spend, by some free estimate, maybe a hundred thousand marks. In doing so, the account derived from the shrub of the re-provided data in the report says there have been 77 complaints in the past year, of which it has been respected, and this means that only 46 follow-up has been forwarded. And then if you divide those hundred thousand marks, by a free estimate, in order to jargonically point to the head of the population, you get the practical data of how much receiving, recording, forwarding a single complaint costs. Otherwise, the report is visual, we considered saying it to the Commission, visually very effective, there are schemes, charts, initiatives, here are the conclusions that we did not adopt, but at least what could be concluded from, and we would be interested in, the reasons and fate of the complaints lodged. So finally here I want to say that I really don't see the great justification for the existence of such a body, because the same job is done in some other sectors, ministries. And secondly, this time I won't vote for the report here, although it might in some way be commendable that this committee has delivered a neatly written report unlike the Independent Committee, and I missed asking today a question, I didn't know that we would have them today, the Independent Police Oversight Committee that 51 we didn't get, and it would be worth asking why we didn't and when we were going to get it. They delivered very neatly. That's what it's all about, anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, the first vice president has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6163	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, of course all co-workers present at today's session of the House of Representatives, I welcome you all. Here, I will also, even though at this point I have returned from my duties, a little comment on the subject of this Board of Appeal Report. And to me, this is a report that is made up but in one, indeed one systematic and systematic way, contains from a legal provision, meaning by the basis of what this Committee is founded, the number of sessions, of course its jurisdiction drawn from the law, means not entering what the substance is specifically and the work of this Committee on Appeals of Citizens. When it comes to this report in some way it is actually, in my opinion, especially good because it contains recommendations for improving the work of police officers. But I answered primarily as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, and I didn't attend this session, and I saw that this report was adopted without recommendations. Personally, I don't think that means anything, and that this report alone adopted with these recommendations would really be what we are expected to do and expected in accordance with the law to improve the work of police officers, so that these complaints will be any less and that everyone will do their job well and in accordance with their powers, that is, in accordance with the law. So my proposal would be, in any case, to adopt, in addition to this report, these recommendations that are truly well-founded and give simply what is expected of the police body when it comes to the work of this Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6164	Thank you. The word has Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6165	I will only relate to one part of what my colleague, Professor Vajzović, said, as regards the composition of this Commission. We have in this composition, as far as we know, that we can't be police officers or people here, as far as I can see, we have an active police commissioner in one canton. We have people who work at the Ministry of Security and some of them even figure as future directors of the Intelligence and Security Agency, so this is the only report that has been made by these members of the Commission questionable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6166	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? 52 If no one answers the word, I conclude the argument. We're going to the 13th agenda, that's Ad. 13. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2014 The report was delivered in the procedure on 03.03.2015. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Committee responsible delivered its opinion on 24 April 2015. The report was accepted and forwarded to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? If no one answers the word, I'll close the argument. We're going to the 14th agenda, that's Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2014
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6169	When it comes to national minorities and the report that has been forwarded, i.e. the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities, then I, as a citizen of this country, begin to doubt well-intentionedness, because national minorities in this country are dispersed and there are many. How articulate their work, homogenizing them or presenting what they're in is something else. Of course, the Roma community is in a very difficult, difficult position, it is without a dilemma, but let's see what happens to the rest of us and how we make this country a country that will be pleasant to everyone without what's called a national minority. Because when you're born, you're born by chance where you're born, you become a national minority, not by your own means, at your own request, but by birth. If he had been born with Eskim, he would have been Eski, if he had been born in Africa, he would have been a member of a tribe, and so it seems that we are members of a tribe, not citizens of this country. The national minorities, the furthest they went to Canton Sarajevo, look at this, would not be bad to take for example constitutional change in the Canton Sarajevo Constitution, so look at how this problem is treated. Because national minorities are both rusin and Slovak and Ukrajinac and Polish and Čes and Slovenac and Crnogorac and Albanac and Grk, and we have natives and Turčin here and now we don't have them listed by the German nation of natives, Talijan natives, and I can count them this way. This should, not in this way, but be expected from those involved in making a proposal, proposal or legal framework in accordance with the Constitution or a proposal for amendments to the Constitution in order to comply with the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6170	Thank you. Are there any further reports for the hearing? As far as I can tell, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 15th agenda, Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2014 law If only I knew who invented the name of this institution, I'd have a word with him. The report was delivered in the procedure on 26 March 2015. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its Opinion on 27 April 2015, the Report was adopted and was proposed to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt the above-mentioned Report with recommendations contained therein. I'm opening a debate. If no one is answering for a word, please report in time, Mrs Nermina Kapetanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the first deputy chairman of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Mrs Pandurević, in the previous term, I can say that the complete Commission, the entire composition of the Human Rights Commission, has been very serious about work, and let's say some supervision of the work of this Commission. I very much appreciate the fact that many of our suggestions are respected and included in the recommendations, but what is worrying is the fact that all those shortcomings that we have pointed out, as chairman and chairman, and which are directed towards prison units, we call them that, which are directly dependent on the Federal Justice Ministry, are not respected. So they are from prison-type institutions, let's say we're going to talk about the one in Zenica, which may be the largest unit of this type in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All that was within the limits of their powers, and financial and capacitative, they did. But objectively, as a person who has visited many times, at the request of several prisoners who have made a request to our Commission and have requested that someone from our Commission visit this home, it was about prisoners of different nationalities, I can say with the power of the arguments that was found in the detention unit and recommendations that there is not enough light within the detention unit and that they recommend that windows be expanded, in a literal simple language, saying, when done, the building would collapse. It's such an old building that's really in a ruined state and it takes money to build a new one. 54 As a person who strongly advocates the protection of human rights, I have convinced myself that it is not true that they do not have the conditions for free activities there. I've seen people who do painting, in special workshops, make different objects that they sell, have the ability to sell on a commercial basis. And if I remember correctly, there was once a working unit that was, in a way, partially and self-reflective, or made possible, there was the possibility of creating profits by working prisoners and selling products produced there. They're not being denied it now, now they're being denied it in the capacity in which it was. And I, still as a humanist, think that working therapy is actually the best way to socialize them and maybe create improved behavior and get away from those crimes that have been committed, because of which they are located in that institution. What is alarming is the fact that they are not, and that is what we as the chairman and chairman have warned, there are no separate populations of minors from minors in the activities of free content, and that is not good. A negative impact has been primjetiti on them, and I think it should be insisted, asking, of course, the government of the Federation of BiH not to get away from this important problem, especially from the justice ministry, which, in turn, did not respect any recommendations that applied to them, that they would allow conditions for the separation of the juveniles department, and even in the free activities. What worries me is the fact that in all the prison units in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have repeatedly warned about it, there is no guarantee in any prison unit 24-hour medical duty. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation in frequent... prisoners who somehow receive drugs within prison units through different channels, or who are prone to physical calculations that finalise life-threatening conditions, must be dealt with quickly. Three to four minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, if there is no adequately trained frame, there is exitus. I think that, knowing the official position of the Commission dealing with these issues in Strasbourg, I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina must provide a 24-hour presence of doctors in the human rights protection segment, because it is also about living things, regardless of the crime they have committed. And so I really call from this place, or let it enter the stenogram, and we will try again as members of the Human Rights Commission to try to at least in the Health Protection segment, that category of people will not be expelled and that it will not be denied the necessary rights to which they are actually entitled and guaranteed to all conventions that Bosnia and Herzegovina has signed, but it does not apply them. There are even prison units that don't even have medical techs on duty for 24 hours, and I don't think that's right. I very much appreciate the efforts made both in the past and in the previous term of office as a person who has repeatedly entered and observed the situation there, but I think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as the most legislative body in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be consulted by a written letter, possibly by the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, by the Government of the Federation, specifically the Ministry of Justice, which will address the regulation of standards for the acquisition of the rights of prisoners from labour to the protection of health and any other objections that this Commission has seen very, very correctly. And I am pleased to say that, I dare say that the members of the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights have succeeded significantly, as I would say, to create good communication, here is the chairman of this working group, who has indeed worked thoroughly, respected all our remarks. They visited prison units very often, there was an improvement, but I think the Federation government must also make significant efforts in view of the fact that the Council of Europe often asks us in Strasbourg – what 55 has been done in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as regards the fair treatment of prisoners in prison units. And I thank the members of this Commission who have done their job very correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6173	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Nermina, pull the word. Well, thank you very much. Does anyone want to talk? Thank you very much. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th agenda, Ad. 16. Report by the Commission on Transport and Communications on the public hearing of BHANSA, BHDCA and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the failures mentioned in the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The control of air traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina" A report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Control of Air Traffic of Bosnia and Herzegovina" was adopted at the 6th session of the House since 11 December 2015. It also adopted a decision on the conduct of a public hearing. At the 8th session of the House, held on 11 March 2015, after the College of the House failed to reach a consensus, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall be addressed to the Commission for transport and communication in order to implement it. The Transport and Communications Commission, 27.04.2015, submitted a report on the public hearing of representatives of BHANSA, BHDCA and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the failures mentioned in the Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "The Control of Air Traffic of Bosnia and Herzegovina", together with an unauthorized transcript of the public hearing. The Commission proposed the adoption of the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to be appointed as soon as possible by the members of the BHANSA Council and BHANSA Board of Directors and the BHANSA Board of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to make up an Action Plan for the process of taking over and establishing control of Bosnia and Herzegovina's air traffic with clearly established operators of activities and deadlines. I'm opening a debate. So after, yeah, we do. Mr. Fehim Škaljić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6175	Mr. Chairman, working presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the House, with regrets only a small number of the Council of Ministers. This could be another example where this Parliament needs this method of special consideration of the situation to control the reality in many of the agencies and the income-making directorates play an important role. When we looked at this whole process then we saw that there are 56 quite non-transparentities about the supervision of spending, that there is complete inconsistency in the staff and rock capacitation of such institutions, and for a reason this position has been taken on the Commission to ask the Parliament and the Council of Ministers to take their part in these important institutions. It has been shown that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not taken over its sovereignty in this part of the job in the capacity it belongs to and at its disposal, and on the other hand that there is a lot of division and animosity in the management of this process between certain parts, so we cannot say that this mechanism works in favour of the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the dimension in which it should be done. I'm saying this because we had some other institutions where the audit reports suggested that things were bad, that it was left at the level of only findings. I am in the view that Parliament should not take a position on anything that will not play a part in the execution order, and in this regard I call on Parliament's members to pay particular attention to how the function is achieved, how the money is spent. We've seen that there are a lot of things in this case that are not an example. For example, the way in which this institution is managed, which is important and in financial terms, because it achieves income, is in a way that ensures mandates for the rest of its life, means by the end of the working life, and that we have no jurisdiction in the sense that failure of work implies responsibility for such a person. What I would particularly like to point out in this review activity... the relationship of the current minister, who has shown willingness and co-operation to work with parliamentary bodies and I call on other ministers to use this method and practice, to strengthen parliamentary debates in committees and bodies of Parliament, because this will allow us to have more effective dynamics and faster attitudes in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6176	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6177	Thank you. Strange this opposition, I guess, I'm waiting for anyone to come forward about this. Fehime looks like we're the only ones in the back row who need to take the call. That's how I feel. Looking at something that should be called ultimately profit, because that's something that, whether we want or not, is the source of the funds, and we should have a surplus in resources compared to what possibly our air carriers under our supposed signs should be paying somewhere else in flights on all zones, or all altitudes. And when I was in '96. To this day, I'm stuck with my head. How is that possible since '96? By 2015, now it will mean 20 years full, this country or some in this country will not allow the full control of the sky to be completed. Not just for the control in a formal sense, but for the real financial effects. I tried to get to the data on the number of flights over Bosnia and Herzegovina, ministers again, in all areas, low, medium, high, and when I did not add up that number and add up what is the real obligation of one who flies over your space, then I can't help but say – the public has been disaved all the time by the total funds that should be received from the total number of overruns over Bosnia and Herzegovina. The data presented to the public is far more accurate, the sum of what Bosnia and Herzegovina should choose to have adequate control of the sky. 57 And what you're talking about, or what you're talking about, or what you're Fehim about, I don't know how we're going to talk about, we need to do a mechanism of responsibility and sanctioning those who brought this country to dozens, it's not dozens anymore, it's a lot more than a million KM, because in the overall coordination and realization of this project, what should actually bring us closer together, it divides us, ethnically national interests. It's a disaster. It is more important for someone in Croatia to collect Zagreb, it is more important for someone in Belgrade to kill, than for our citizens to have income and for our citizens to live. I cannot come to myself that the country that is economically potential has multiple control of its sky -- Montenegro. Or that Kosovo, created yesterday, has established control of the sky. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not established control of the sky in 20 years. Mr. Minister, since you're listening to what we're saying, I hope we get relevant information, that is, why, who, who, who are the brakes, which is why the brakes are, because we need to find a modusa, because we are now at this moment other than Andorra, I quote, Luxembourg, not to list them, Liechtenstein, a country that doesn't have its own control of the sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6178	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6179	Dear colleagues. First of all, I have to say that we have really called everyone for a public hearing and that all those we have called for have responded, and we have invited all those who, at the conclusion of the House, had a commitment and some even for whom we had no obligation, but we have invited them to come to the relevant data. What is, the fact is that we've come from the data that's in the audit report. Whether they're right or not, we didn't do it, of course. And as a basic thing, we took them to be correct, because that's the data we found in the review report. What's the fact that I'm not repeating everything you could read here? The fact is that there was a lack of coordination between these institutions and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications. So there we had maltene interruptions in these relationships, which resulted naturally in delays in all tasks, i.e. the performance of all tasks. So it happened to us that the Council of BHANSA in 2010 appoints officials who confirm there the old rule that the most lasting solutions are temporary solutions, so these solutions, so temporary, remain to this day as in the status of the perpetrators of the duties. In the meantime, the mandate and the savjet of BHANSA expired in 2012. The Council of Ministers did not resolve the issue, meaning the previous Council of Ministers. Of course, in front of this Council of Ministers, it's up to him to handle it. When, therefore, we started from the fact that the people who worked there, who were directors, were in a permanent working relationship in another institution, then it's obvious that the whole system was set up so that it was ineffective and that the result of this inefficient complete system was actually what the auditor found there. That is why we have proposed practically two conclusions, respecting the one which Mr. Lovrinović's House, on the proposal, has already been adopted, which is that the House is quarterlyly reported. Yes, the Council of Ministers is keeping the House up to date on the process of taking control. So we suggested two conclusions here. One – that the Council of Ministers should, therefore, resolve these staff issues, i.e. the Council and the Board of BHANSA and the other – immediately after the decision of the Board of 58 BHANSA Management to adopt an Action Plan with precisely defined terms, deadlines and clearly established responsibility for the implementation of certain parts of the Action Plan. We felt that as Parliament, we could, in some ways, be bound by it as well as by the Commission. I personally could not take the impression, although of course it does not stand in the report, that first of all the Ministry was a key factor in this non-coordination, or the absence of the coordination of institutions, that it was happening that the Ministry had been going on for several months or even a year to pass some acts. Of course, it was then the delay of some others, that after taking over workers from entity agencies, because of some delays again at the ministry did not complete training. So we didn't get trained people, which, of course, we couldn't take over with untrained people's control, etc., etc., now I'm not repeating what the report says. As the Commission, which did the hearing, we felt that these two conclusions were sufficient for Parliament to achieve its role, and that we finally get the final result, which is to take control of the airspace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6180	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović, if not a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6181	No, it's not a mistake. What a mistake, I pushed it there as much as I remember. Thank you, Mr. Novaković. As it says in the Audit report, but with a very simple check by any member of Parliament entering Frankfurt Airport, the March destinations and then says via Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia ha, ha, ha, for Istanbul, the airport, this airport, and collect the number of daily flights. It's very simple, it even tells you what heights they fly to which destination. It's so simple. So those auditors who do that are people who are just being served, not what the real job is supposed to be to them. So it just can't be, all the planes flying from Hungary to Italy, towards Portugal, towards Spain, are flying this country. Also from all the other countries up there, all of them. It's a shame, I couldn't come to my senses when I started to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6182	Thank you. The word has Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6183	I thank the chairman. So I'm a member of the Committee whose report is, so I'm behind those conclusions that we made, and that was the only possible thing we suggested. But I wanted to say a little bit of the things that I had in the whole process that lasted one or four times in front of this Committee, and the ministry and the minister would obviously have a lot of work to do there, because a lot of questions that came from there, that they weren't really solved, starting with a report that I was talking about today that there was something in it, and it was... that if I wasn't wrong, which is a civil servant, I would take it as a right after the povejrenstvo to interpret. Let 59 interpret Mr. President of the Committee or member, but a gentleman who doesn't even know how he was, in which capacity, that I don't now appoint here is not the order, therefore, to present his insinuations to the public. Next to him is another gentleman who is no longer supposed to be in any relationship with us, or with the authorities, so let's do that, if he can, is some kind of experience. However, the ministry gentleman brings out such lunches after the Committee's meetings on several occasions to take the scales more, and this is not the first time, but also at the Committee's meetings, so it's no longer okay. At the next session of the Committee, Mr. President, we will see first of all who participates there, in which property even comes there and what he says, regardless of his knowledge. On the other hand, at that public hearing, I asked one question logically, after the director of BHDCA said that, therefore, the revision was referred to the remark, as planned, on what they found, and that, therefore, that, that what they predicted was a loss, was not actually done as a service. So she couldn't even be charged and then it created a public perception that it was actually a loss that happened there. And now, the auditor replied to me, or the representative from the audit, that their position was that, as Mr. counterpart said, it was the income Bosnia and Herzegovina could collect. So it's not about reviewing what could and what would have happened, but whether there was a commitment, if someone hadn't done it right or charged if a bill was issued for some kind of favor. And then, of course, it's a loss if it's not done. But then it was created in public such a situation that it was 70m euros, or already marks how much loss it was, and I don't know what the story from it was. I agree with my colleague Backović that this should be taken over, that it is money, etc., if we have the technical opportunity not to talk about it now, however concrete, therefore, about a concrete Impact Report, so these possibilities, I think a lot of things have come out of control through the ministry, of course I'm not telling Mr. Minister who has recently been, but from the work of the former ministry that didn't deal with it at all. So many people are in VD positions, so much, so there's an appetizer whether or not BHDCA is in the ministry, whether or not it's a problem, they've never offered..., even the Committee, in my opinion, got involved in that kind of story, maybe too much, but here's where we want to help solve it, so we're going to be present at some round tables, just to sort of solve both the takeover and the schooling and everything else. So, here's my contribution was to the debate, and I'll certainly support the report and we couldn't do any different, I think, than we did in the state in which it is. But I really suggest to the minister, here to make sure, that especially those who are not authorized to, and especially where they are not members of the body, go public and say things that may or may not be true, but they are not invited to talk about it, create confusion, as far as it seems to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6184	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6185	Dear colleague Lovrenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6186	Lovrinović. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6187	How? Lovrinović. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6188	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6189	Well, I know a lot of Lovrenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6190	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6191	Well, I apologize, I say Lovrinović, but not one, but enough from Eggs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6192	Do you hear what I'm saying? Discussion, replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6193	Replica, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. If my math is about right, and some of what I'm doing is math, something I have to do in my life, and I've been doing my whole life, then it's the 50th part of the money we were supposed to raise. Look out, 50th, price, 50th. And no one here can tell me it's not about interests and millions of dollars, not to tell a ten-million, ten-tenths, corruption. Because how to explain that you're giving someone else that money, that's why I gave it to you and I'm not going to invest and accept control of my own sky. So that's what we're dealing with in the least, just because we have a problem with the state, I'm saying again who they are, and I'm saying it's about millions of corrupting businesses.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6195	...the funds went to those who made deals with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6196	Okay, thank you very much. Discussion, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6197	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like a few words to draw attention to what was happening on the Commission. I met for the first time personally with such an approach called a public hearing. At first, it seemed to me, I was almost embarrassed, it seemed to me that it didn't make sense, some serious world that we were hearing as the Commission. But since we received an outstanding audit report, there was indeed a lot of problems there. It turned out that such a public hearing had to be held, but I left what seemed to me to be Mr. Novaković's euphemistic approach, I went one step further, I did not say that I lacked coordination in the ministry. 61 My proposal was to sort of forward it to the D.A.'s office, actually there's so much trouble. After several hours of discussion that we had, money disappeared on the one hand, and on the other hand, the opportunity for him to move forward was missed, so to earn money. And so since 2007, in the meantime, we've been listening to praises from the media, we've taken over the sky, etc. I think that, I still think that there must be someone else, I don't think that Parliament is just, as you just said, able to solve this,... that it should, because, as the distinguished representative Škaljić said, that this is what happens after the audit report usually happens to us – no, don't do it anymore, and then those who did say we won't do it anymore, and somehow it's over. I think there's a lot more serious stuff here and there's something more serious to be done. Of course they were taken, that it was necessary to verify the personnel, who did they take? Those who are most directly interested in us not taking control of our skies. So then, I don't know, from Serbia, Montenegro was involved people, so then, these management structures claimed at a public hearing that they were in full capacity in two places directors. And so, a lot, a lot of problems, and I think we should deal with this more anyway. At the same time, my proposal was, therefore, after this public debate, that it was a good way to sort things out and agree, the proposal was and it would be if we could get to that date on June 17th when the time for, it stands out for digitisation, that the same thing would be done for public broadcasters, for the public TV system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6198	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not a classic replica, but I forgot to say something earlier, so I took this opportunity to say it. In fact, I forgot to say that the money that would be collected, as far as I'm concerned, actually belongs to those institutions. He does not enter the budget of state institutions, so there would be no confusion. So, that's all we'd get, indirectly, is, uh, financial gains in terms of hiring people in BHANSA, BHADCA and other institutions that deal with it. So this benefits the budget itself would indirectly, so it does, but to know that that fact, therefore, is not the means.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6200	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? The Minister is asking for a word. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6201	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable MPs. I want to inform this House of several important facts. On the background of these discussions that we have heard, the Ministry of Communication and Transport will come up with real data on the number of flights and on the revenues generated by BHANSA and on the costs of porting, to call it that, i.e. the missing profits, or revenues. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we heard from the discussions, is in its geostrategic position, has a comparative advantage over countries from 62 environments and a large number of flights go right across Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, and paradoxically kills the least income on this basis. As far as the Commission's report is concerned, the Ministry of Communications and Transport has already begun to proceed, to say the Commission's conclusions, that is, we have already taken steps to elect and appoint the BHANSA Council, in whose jurisdiction the choice of management is. We already, as the Council is known, have seven members, and we have already received proposals for members of the Council from the Federation's ministries, and we are missing just another member from Republika Srpska and then we have already prepared proposals for the BHANSA Council, which will continue to appoint management, which we expect will happen this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6202	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else want to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. Before we move on to the debate on points, to item 17 of the agenda, I suggest we unify the debate on points 17 and 18, given that it is the materials of the Export Credit Agency, and then we will vote on my proposal. Prepare to vote, to unite the debate, therefore, prepare for the vote. Vote now. As far as I can tell, we've decided to bring the debate together on points 17 and 18 unanimously. We're moving to dots 17 and 18, Ad. 17. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2014 Ad. 18. Information from the BiH Export Credit Agency on measures and actions taken to eliminate difficulties and ensure the necessary preconditions for normal work Report and Information were submitted in the procedure on 01.04.2015. The information was provided in order to implement the conclusions of the 3rd session of the House, held on 15 January 2015, which was adopted on a proposal from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on 28 April 2015. The report on the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency Management Board for 2014 was accepted and its adoption was proposed in the House. Information on measures and actions taken to eliminate difficulties and ensure the necessary preconditions for normal work has been accepted and is proposed to do the same. The Commission proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: – It is up to the Governing Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH to hold an emergency session within 15 days at which, with the presence of representatives of the founders of Bosnia and Herzegovina with entities, a proposal for concrete measures for the resolution of the situation at the Export-Credit Agency, with 63 projection of its further functioning, and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as soon as possible, including all relevant levels of government. I'm having a debate. Here you go. Mr. Mirsad Mešić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6204	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to speak about this subject before I begin to express my enormous dissatisfaction with the insolence of part of the MPs who spend most of their time in congregation towers and at all times endanger the quorum, or normal work of this House. I also express great dissatisfaction with the disinterest of representatives of the Council of Ministers who do not want to attend the debates. ...in fact, what's the content, the subject and the method of our work, to whom we're actually saying this and who's going to hear our messages. One good example was, in fact, the Minister of Transport and Communications who heard the debate, and man will likely do something about the area that is hunting terrible problems. I didn't want to report at the previous point, but here I'll just tell you that in that one directorship, the man is the director of the airport, the man is the director of the agency, the deputy director of one agency, the deputy director of the other agency, they do whatever they want, they don't respect the ministry, they're related to the political leaders of relatives, and then they're the problems we can only dream of. We are now discussing an Export-guarantee agency that has made terrible, catastrophic results of its business. Mr. Chairman, there's no one here from the IGA, no one from the Management Board, and we need to say and express our dissatisfaction. So IGA has done everything to bring its functioning to collapse in this previous period. That's mostly the problem with running that agency, the board's problem, and here they are not present and they don't want to hear what we're doing. And in fact, I suggest we take this item off the agenda, let the gentlemen and the ladies come, or the ladies are headed by these two institutions, that's the Agency, or the Management Board, so here's to hear what we're talking about. Otherwise I don't know what we're talking about. In any case, the SDP MPs' club will not support any of these documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6205	We have representatives of this agency, they've called, they're here in the O.R. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6206	Well, I'm not going to specifically elaborate everything I've seen in these reports, but one of these reports, especially this board of directors, on work, so, and on financial business, has suggested that I might suggest one conclusion today if other colleagues support it and think about it the same way I do. Namely, when this material and relative material is not as large as it comes from other agencies, directorates, and I don't know who reports it to us when it comes to work and financial operations. Namely, I would suggest that, if possible, from the leadership of these bodies, regulated bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose reports we are considering and 64 we adopt, deliver up to at least five pages, short of what they provide with a reference to problems and proposals to address these problems. And if this were to be the basis because otherwise you get the text, sometimes you get the material of 150-200 pages, you just lose yourself in the statistical data that's inside. Even if you're not from that profession and you're a representative, then it's very difficult for you to follow that material. It seems to me that one of our conclusions that would be binding on those who report to me, that this leadership on three pages, five, four pages would give us all the problems, the problems and say, suggest some solutions that MPs and those who may not be skilled at any problem, can participate in the work of it, and those who are more skilled, here have these reports as statistical as they like to be looked at and discussed by them as they please, so those who are methodologically. Well, if it is, I will suggest such a conclusion, if colleagues are in the mood, I hope it would contribute perhaps more effectively to considering such reports in the future, if they get support. If not, thank you very much. I'll support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6207	Thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6208	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, present. These united agenda points have certain similarities with the previous point of this BHANSA since here are colleagues before me who have discussed, together with me in the Commission where we have considered this report of the Agency, and where we have one, where we have found one thing, this general relationship in the Agency itself. You have a negative audit report, you have an agency that operates negatively, and that's just how it goes without any concrete measures, without any suggestions on how to get out of all this trouble. I had one question on the Commission concerning this report. To tell you the truth, I didn't get an answer to it, I just found it says on this page 8 says, in the proposals of the conclusions it says – in contact with the legislative authorities to look for possible models for its survival or transformation. I was looking for an answer to what models they were, who's supposed to suggest those models? In that debate, what led to the difficult situation in this agency, it was said that no one was giving instructions whether this agency, how it should be done, should it stop its activities towards the particular entities it has been working with. Of course, we all on the Commission have found that this Agency is very important for our country and for its work, especially for these businessmen who are export-oriented and these problems solved by the Federation, in which they are trying to exit, however, the general relationship that exists in this Agency. And what was presented to us, on the Commission, did not give me the right to support this report on the Commission. Therefore, I will most likely, as well as my colleagues, not most likely, be restrained when voted in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6209	Thank you. 65 Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6210	What am I gonna do when I'm alone, but they're empty benches, bigger numbers from one political option, we'd talk to the other, but I don't have another. When it comes to the Export Credit Agency, and I've already talked about it here and explained the model of what it means to guarantee a job, because it's not a bank, it's the Agency that guarantees that in and for a name, etc. I was later given more explanations than those employed by the Agency. And if that's true, then we need to wonder what's going on and how it's going to happen in this country. Entire pressures that this must and must be guaranteed, so because someone does not do it and does not end guarantee on guarantee, guarantee on guarantee, banks are activated and the money is gone. The biggest terminator of that money, so on the air, you should say, everyone should know, the Derventa tube factory. And then the one sitting here with us, and he left this session, at the Commission's session, here's a colleague who just said he didn't know what he was going to say, openly, but the owner bought these money with a huge number of warehouses in Germany, and his factory wasn't in his heels, not in his mind. We have to have an Export Credit Agency because then we don't have any way to guarantee that what we're supposed to do export has a guarantee, or that there is, that's actually a guarantee on bail, that the bank will betray you. It's got to be. Since entities are the ones who made their presages so that they can be reduced to what they are today or means they have states, bankruptcy, then entities from their budgets need to cover it. There needs to be a way to keep issuing guarantees for those who really do business, who don't take that money to rob it. And the money was jacked in half. Because if the contract with Moldova was signed, and if the Agency issued a guarantee, the bank transferred funds, those funds were intended for material and equipment, and they weren't used for it, then it's a crime. Of course, now that there is no final product to go on, Moldova will pay the total sum of the bank to activate the guarantee. Then they say, "Stop, don't give it, but guarantee it, and so there have been so many tens of millions. This is where they'd have to get involved, that way, the roads of that money, and someone who's called the investigative organs, because otherwise we're not going to protect ourselves, and eventually we're going to lose it, and we need it. All countries have her and she's ours on her knees. How is that possible? It's simple, because there's a decadent plan between those called the political mafia, how to suck money out of all the institutions that are, under the supposed name of state. It's an exact plan. The pipe factory thing made that clear to me. And that's why I'm proposing to the Resort Minister, he's gone here, I suggest you sit down and laugh, so I have no one to propose to, sir, that we call a chair, lady chairs, to start a procedure and find a modus to keep this agency alive and that those who sucked this money are being detected and that that money is coming back. The chair's turning, isn't it? Thank you, ma'am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6211	You see, I respect it when MPs have ideas that can improve Parliament's work, but I would ask you not to caricate things. This has been a cartoon, and I ask you to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the role of a representative. You can't talk to the chair, Mr. Backović, no matter how much I respect your right to innovation. 66 Mr. Predrag Kožul, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6212	Wrong, wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6213	Wrong, thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6214	Since Sokrat, the way we communicate here has been in different forms. So I can communicate with the microphone, but through the metaphor of my communication with the microphone, you understand what I'm trying to say. I can talk to this paper, and that's my discussion. I speak to him, and those who understand will understand, and those who do not understand will not understand. And I'm going to act like that for the simple reason that others treat me like that. This is absolutely ignoring the MPs of this assembly. And that's why I turned to the chair. Maybe the chair will react better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6215	Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6216	Chairman, business intervention, actually. In view of your comments, Article 74(2). - The members of the BiH Council of Ministers have an obligation to attend the House sessions. And I understand that Mr. Backović has cartooned, it is his style, it is my style to quote the Rules of Procedure, and then I would ask you to ensure, as chairman of the dom, respect for this Rules of Procedure, because it is one of your obligations. And the Rules of Procedure make it clear that members of the BiH Council have an obligation to attend the House sessions. Here, I don't see any and most of it is like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6217	Mr. Nenad Lalić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6218	Thank you. Well, I'd like to take a brief look around, in most cases I agree with the discussions of the predecessors. I'd make a little correction that the Agency, as it is now, is not on its knees, it seems to me a meter below ground. She's practically dead now, she can't issue guarantees. Looking here that the banks have all sued the Agency, and listening to the presentations of the President of the Management Board and the Director on committees, I think that here is the exclusive responsibility of the Management Board and the management of the IGA which were either careless, or they did not know, or it was a bad intention and allowed to be so in charge of the IGA. I say, or my company deals with 95% exports, we've never used IGA services, we use bank services, they give us more guarantees or bigger expeditions that have an interest in working with us, so they give us guarantees. Normally, however, they cost something, and I used to say, these privates are always faster and more able to get some easy money, to the source, unlike companies where they own state and government. 67 So I noticed immediately the guarantees were not given as a whole. Why did this agency, when the first guarantees were given to the UNIS plant in Derventa, who had entrusted them somewhere at approximately 80 million marks, need to investigate this and recognise that the funds were not purposely spent on the purchase of repromation that would serve to produce a finished product that would be carried out, but were probably spent on non-intentional personal incomes, to settle some other obligations, to buy businesses around the countries in the environment. And I resent that, I find it exclusive that IGA management and the board of directors were responsible for not taking care of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6219	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda number 19, Ad. 19. Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad for 2015, the BiH Ministry of Defence material, with amendments to the annual training plan and exercises of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad for 2015 The information was delivered in the procedure on 01.09.2014 and the amendments and additions were submitted on 03.03.2015. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Committee responsible delivered its opinion on 24 April 2015. The Commission took note of the information and forwarded it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 20th agenda, Ad. 20. State action plan on emergency cases of protection of the population from ionic radiation in the event of an emergency, nuclear accident or damage, material of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6222	I said it was fate because I'm alone, and these empty benches have a lot more MPs, so everyone can talk in a row. When it comes to this problem I'm just going to look back at four segments, you've listened to me already, you know what I'm going to talk about exactly, just four segments, not wanting to get into the depths of this problem anymore, because this is too complex a problem. Namely, I couldn't come to myself that those who were doing the Action Plan, when I asked where they were deposited by ionizing fire alarms, that none of those who sat across from me knew it. You should know that ionizing fire alarms, that's what's up above us, in use for more than 40 years, and they've been deposited at four locations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today no one knows what's going on with that radioactive waste in those locations. Maybe it's blown up, maybe it's in the water, maybe we're drinking it, and no one's gonna deal with it. At the space in Republika Srpska in Ugljevik, here I will tell them now, in Ugljevik, in the Federation in the window, an old window closed in the Kakanj mine, one in the mine that pleads that it should be a mine for the future Termoelectrica up at your place in Krajina. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I just know what I'm talking about, this is very dangerous, this is not a joke, it's a toxicity of space, given the way the rainwaters go, where they're going, and no one's taking care of it today. And one in the window of the Banovic mine. These huge amounts of Banovic mine, given the circumstances, I know this, and I am measuringly saying that because I've laggled them. Namely, fortunate or unfortunate, so for two years I was the director of the Institute for the Study of Fire-Fire Devices and Systems, and we took it down, packed it up, closed it down to these depots, which were optional depots in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, lags. When I asked what was going on after this paranoia or war, because I know what is a potential and latent danger, absolutely no one will, nor can, nor can answer me. And I say in a miracle, I find that the gentlemen didn't know at all. And now I'm asking -- where do they camp or agree with cobalt today, when I say a cobalt bomb people think it's a bomb that's going to explode, medically, where do they go after the period of that semi-degradation, or use for medical purposes? Where do those who hang above our heads go? Where do those go, and so do, because you also have those that are used in the industry and are very severe radioactive radiation. We get into this problem, we don't seriously approach it as a country at all. It's not about entity or any interest, it's about the country. Look what's going on in Croatia, and one of the segments of radioactive waste is not just Elektrana in Krško, but exactly what I'm talking about right now. And what exists in the geological map of underground waters, and the space where the lageration is foreseen, is more than dangerous for us, and the state is not responding at all. Because 69 of us forget that there's washing, flow, water, water is basically the biggest solvent and then goes into general use with all citizens. We have to deal with this problem a little harder to deal with, and information like this is actually something I say about pre-war training, don't give Bog of atomic impact, so atomically from the left, atomically from the right, lie down, lie down, and what happens to what we have in the country and where it ends, nobody cares about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6224	Thank you. The word is Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6225	Thank you. I will continue to discuss Mr Backović, but I will look back on what threats are possible at this current moment and therefore I support the adoption of the proposed State Action Plan. I hope that the same will justify the reasons that are to be adopted and stated in the same way, because at this current moment as you know it has the intention to resolve the disposal of radioactive waste along the border with the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be discussed later on at a special point in the agenda, although I sincerely hope that this will not happen. I would like to emphasise, and it is also contained in the plan, that the same is primarily being brought to protect the population and the environment from any radiation emergency. Why am I stressing this protection of the population? Because I believe there is a serious threat to installing or installing the source of an emergency radiation event in the northwest part of our country. I therefore hope that the representatives of the Agency are present and I want to hear from them – what at this time and in particular is the responsibility of the Agency, what can they do or possibly do in terms of preventive action and involvement in these processes? In Chapter 2. I haven't found a specific case of radiation threats across the border of another country. Maybe it's contained, but I didn't recognize it in such a concrete way. And as this Plan explains in 2015, there is no financial means for its implementation, as it states that the funding will only be provided at 250,000 KM and that by the International Atomic Energy Agency, and will be intended to carry out the exercises. It is also stated that in 2016, the budget of 32,000 KM will be planned, but for the employment of an executive and co-ordinator of the Agency team. My opinion is that financial resources should also be planned to monitor activities in the process of assessing the convenience of the site of construction of the radioactive waste disposal site, and to take possible preventive measures, including the knowledge of the population about the harmful effects and consequences of radioactive radiation. Also, I would like to request a reply from the Agency's representative, is it in Chapter 3. The response to a radiation emergency should also be indicated in point 3.1 of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the state border, etc. The ESPO Convention, as Bosnia and Herzegovina is the same and contains activities undertaken by the country's signatories to prevent, reduce and control negative environmental impacts across the borders of the state. The General Provisions of this Convention, referred to in point 2 of this Convention, stipulates that each signatories will take the necessary legal, administrative or other measures to implement the provisions of this Convention. Also in Chapter 3 I found no response to the current possibility of radiation 70 threats from sources such as the Low and Medium Radioactive Waste Deposit, which is planned to be deposited 5 km from the border of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6226	Thank you. The word is Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, of course this question deserves special attention and I must say that at the Commission's defence and security session we had the opportunity to hear far, here's to say, wider and very important information. I am pleased that the persons working in this Agency are very professional and trained to respond to this challenge that is not at all simple. And what I want to say, and that is, among other things, the Commission following the debate and the submission of oral information, which was given at the session, that I do not repeat everything that is said and I suppose that perhaps the representative of the State Regulatory Agency for Radioactive and Nuclear Security will address it, we have reached several conclusions that we have made, among other things, to the Agency for Nuclear Security, then the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, because we believe that this conclusion, which is binding on the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, is that, in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, prepares detailed information for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on all the measures and actions taken and which are intended to take on the basis of the security of such existence on persons, society and the environment and environment. The Joint Commission will discuss at the meeting the information and materials provided, and on this issue will deliver them to the homes, the House of Representatives, of course, and the House of Peoples, with a proposal for inclusion in the agenda in one of the next sessions of the homes when this information is obtained. So, I think this is the best possible line of steps to really get information that will include competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina dealing with these issues and then at our session we will have one complete information. To avoid what's being heard in public about this problem today, this is the best way to go. That is why we in the Commission for Defence and Security have, in this very way, considered this issue, reached conclusions that directed this activity to be led exactly in a way that included the competent ministries alongside the Agency. Certainly, the Presidency has its role here and, therefore, all those who, in any way, have access to these international agreements and conventions, all that needs to be respected about this problem that can indeed be a very, very serious problem. And I believe that using all those mechanisms that Bosnia and Herzegovina has to prevent all these unwanted consequences that can happen in the event of the opening of such a location for the installation of radioactive waste, that we will use it with these opportunities, of course, to prevent it, but certainly there should be no exception to the possibility that certain international disputes may also occur. Therefore, I think that we must engage very quickly and actively, not only from here in the Parliamentary Assembly, but I call on the competent ministries to do their job as soon as possible and on the basis of the Commission's conclusions on 71 defences and security so that we in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples can draw more concrete conclusions on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6228	Thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović, ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6229	I thank the chairman. I've read this Action Plan, I agree that it's very well done, in my opinion even in some things very detailed. Sources of ionizing radiation, we all know, can be radioactive matter and can be electrical devices used in industry and medicine. And as far as our country is concerned, as you stated in this report, that the five categories are planned. These last three are actually those who are interested in us as a state and which, in my own court, they are not as much of a danger as these two are the first to which we do not actually use in our country but we are very exposed to them. So it's talked about and treated, so damage or gambling that can occur on nuclear power plants and as such producing dangerous radioactive matter means through atmosphere in our space. You remember all the volcanoes in Iceland that caused the arrest of complete air traffic in Western Europe. And this problem that has been detected regarding radioactive waste at the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I also agree that it can be extremely dangerous for our citizens, or for our country, because it is nuclear waste that is in a gas state. And it wasn't accidentally chosen that location, it's my deep opinion, given the rose winds, the winds that blow, those products go straight to our country. So, since it's nuclear waste from the Krško nuclear power plant, it seems to me half-half to Slovenija-Hrvatska-Croatia, they could have easily done it at the border of these two countries, but the same thing as it is between Germany and France, it seems to me, so there are nukes mostly near the German border because of these currents. I think it means that, too, I agree that this problem can be very dangerous if it doesn't respond adequately in time. I, if there are already people who have done this Action Plan, I have found one interesting thing in this Plan, and it is about institutions that have certain equipment in terms of protecting against ionising radiation and there are mentions of armed forces that have some powers, but I haven't found that they have any equipment. Now, whether they really have equipment or it's some secret I don't know, but I find it a little strange that our armed forces don't have that kind of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6230	Thank you. If no one else hears from me, I'll close the argument. Moving to the next item on the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6231	72 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6233	I'm asking and I want to make a record. As an opposition, I will speak only of the SBB Club now, today ensuring the functioning of the House of Representatives. If we got out, the four of us, right now, there wouldn't be a quorum and we couldn't work, and that's how it's been since this morning. And just to remind you of Article 7 in which the right and obligation of every MP to participate in Parliament's work is being spoken of in attitude 2. What's going on is extremely unserious. Well, we're not all here, not to use a street dictionary, so what do we call ourselves? So we spit on ourselves, we don't respect ourselves, which we would sit here all the time, and gentlemen from the position don't come and thus threaten Parliament's functioning. We will now go out and you will interrupt the session of Parliament. So what do we do now? Please take all possible steps to ensure that people attend, that colleagues attend the session, that they are not unserious and sit in cafes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6234	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6235	So that's what you tell them when they come, I'm telling you who you're not...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6236	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6238	Thank you. Please, everything I had to say on that subject I said and all I would say would be exaggeration on my part, I don't like to exaggerate. Each of us is telling a story, among other things, about his behaviour in this House and his presence and absences. That'll be recognized by those who need to recognize and I can't say anything anymore. I'm sorry we've been in this situation all day. And once again, I'm calling on the services to in case we don't have a quorum to be recorded as being represented, which aren't and the case should be forwarded to the competent commission. That's all I can say. Anyone else want to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6239	He's got this guy from the Agency. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6240	Did you ask for a word from the Agency?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6241	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6242	And you are?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6243	Deputy Director of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6244	And where's the director?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6245	The director is currently in Vienna.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6246	Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6247	The Honorable Presidency, the People's MPs. So, I'm Deputy Director of the Agency, Jovica Bošnjak. The Dirktor is currently in Vienna, precisely on the subject, currently holding a meeting every three years related to the Joint Convention on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. So this week, we're actually going to use the first time to get real information from our Croatian colleagues about what's going on with their disposal plans on Tršičko Gora, because until now, the information we have mostly comes from the media, so we've never officially received anything from our colleagues from Croatia. After obtaining this information we have a plan to prepare, and that is even the conclusion of this, from the Joint Defence and Security Commission, we have a plan to prepare a very detailed report for the Parliamentary Assembly for one of the next sessions. As far as the plan is concerned, so I'd like to start with the 4th question, meaning the last question that was about Armed Forces and institutions that own detection and reaction equipment. In principle, the Armed Forces don't have too much equipment, mostly this applies to an RBH unit based in Tuzla, so in our plan we haven't been overly emphasising their capabilities, we've been more based on health protection institutes and the Public Health Service that have been equipped for this purpose for years now through the funds that we get from the International Atomic Energy Agency. So, for that reason, we're not even giving instructions to the possibility of the armed forces themselves. As for the issues related to the financial plan, for the implementation of the plan, we expected the adoption procedure to take place in 2015, so that the real implementation of the plan actually begins in 2016. For this reason, we spoke to the International Atomic Energy Agency for assistance through the Technical Cooperation Project. The project has already been approved and will amount to around 250,000 euros, so we did not intend to burden BiH's state budget except for the employment of one man who would work in some way co-ordination of these activities. And you could also see in your plan that we were primarily based on the already existing 74 security force, meaning from the Ministry of Security to the entity civil protection. For this reason, we did not require any additional staff to be employed, which does not mean that it would not be desirable and it would not be better, but given the economic crisis we respected the current facts. One of the issues was also planned whether the case category was processed, meaning when a nuclear incident occurred in one of the neighbouring countries. I'm glad some MPs really read this plan in detail. So this refers to category 1 and 2 that does not exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, category 3 and 4 of the radio threat, it refers to sources of closed, radioactive sources as we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and category 5 therefore processes, means the impact of an incident or... in another country that has an impact on Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that category 5 actually applies, specifically if something would happen in Krško or... in Hungary or in one of our countries in the environment, so that category in the Plan is very detailed. I'm going to ask one more question I want to answer is the matter of the ESPO convention why it's not mentioned in the plan. In particular, because the Plan refers to nuclear and radiation incidents which are much more detailed in the two conventions that are deposited by the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, means the Convention on Early Reporting and the Convention on Response, so that both of these conventions are detailed in the Plan which is much more important and more important for our Plan. I would also take the opportunity to call Mr. Backović if he could come to our Agency once and make sure that absolutely control for every source in Bosnia and Herzegovina exists, means there is a detailed register of all sources, and even a fire reporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina has about 35,000, without saying that more significant sources, means cobalts,..., which are located in the industry. The inventory of all warehouses in Bosnia and Herzegovina exists in our Agency, and all these sources are under detailed control, both the issue of licences and subsequent inspection controls by our inspectors. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6248	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. We only allowed the Agency's representative to say what he had to say. I hope that we can bring the end, Mr. Backović, the debate is closed not every time it has to react. We're going to the 21st agenda, Ad. 21. Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović The motion for a resolution was submitted on 24 December 2014. The motion for a resolution was discussed at the 3rd session of the House, held on 15 January 2015. The following conclusions were adopted: 1. The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked with organising a public debate on the status issue of Sutorina and the House of Representatives by 27.02.2015. 75 2. A statement on the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina is delayed until the end of the public debate until the amendment phase is extended. A public debate was held on 24 February 2015. On 10 March 2015, the Commission submitted a Report on the Public Discussion held, and the Commission decided that this report, together with an unauthorized transcript of the Public Discussion and the publication of the Association of Geographers in BiH, the Act of Geographic of BiH, should be delivered to the House of Representatives, in particular the issue of Sutorin. The Constitutional Commission has assessed the need to carry out further consultations with experts in the field of constitutional and international public law, and has proposed to the House of Representatives to set a new deadline of 30 days in order for the Commission to hold a special session to be called by experts from those areas and to give their views on the situation of Sutorina's status. I remind you that in the second round of voting, after the College failed to reach its agreement, the House adopted the following conclusions. Starting with the principle that we will not and will not, in accordance with the BiH Constitution and international law, have the primary objective of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our country, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives finds: 1. The Badinter Commission's report is an unquestioned part of international law with the power of international judgment, and as one of the foundations of the Dayton Peace Agreement has the right of championships on other acts of the type guaranteeing the non-questionability of the territorial integrity and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina within its internationally recognised borders. 2. A new BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with carrying out three comprehensive primary-legal expert analyses with consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests from the point of view of preserving its internationally recognised borders with Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. 3. On these grounds, the House of Representatives will organise a public debate aimed at signing the State Borders Agreement with neighbours. I would also like to remind you that MP Hanka Vajzović, at the 3rd session of the House, has submitted an amendment that we will later declare: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to form an independent expert commission that will establish the correctness of the contract on established borders between BiH and the Republic of Montenegro at the borders of the municipalities of Foč and Pljeva, the Malinjak area. At the 8th session of the House, held on 11 March 2015, a new 30-day deadline was set at the Constitutional Commission's proposal to carry out further consultations. The Constitutional Legal Commission's report on the hearing with a special session on the status issue of Sutorina delivered on 30.04.2015. The Commission did not support the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Mešić answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. 76 Personally, I am not satisfied with the public debate which led to the problem called the Resolution on Sutorina and which, in conclusion of this House, was organised by the Constitutional Commission from the simple fact that it was not, at least by my humble court, the eminent legal names of international law that could give a valid assessment of the problems we call the Resolution on Sutorina. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today is a historic opportunity for us to protect the validity of this Parliament by protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina, by accepting this resolution, by bringing civilised peoples to a position to settle their disputes and even disputes called territorial disputes and bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina to an international court of justice that would, of course, be able to make a decision on who Sutorin belongs. So, following all these developments over Sutorina's problem, I am personally confident and convinced that historical and constitutionally Sutorina belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are not causing any misunderstandings, we are asking that civilised, internationally established methods return to the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By accepting this Resolution, we are creating an initial step and I personally invite you to do so. The SDP club will support the Sutorina Resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6251	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6252	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talked about this before, I brought up a series of dilemmas and then, of course, evaluated(?) Everything, a man begins to explore a little and realizes that the only dilemma is here why we will not as citizens of this country to protect our own country. And since we've received a hearing report from a special session on the situation of Sutorina, and the names of those who were me are all here are listed, because we said they were legal experts, experts from that area, and by the circumstances of all and one of these here I know, who is the legal expert here, who is the expert in the given area, who and how and how he selected and invited these people. This is dancing, playing with citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and playing with us who are called MPs. I don't mind, I don't appreciate them very much, I speak for those I'm closest to, by Zenad Đelmo, Hidajet Vladić, Hidajet Dhelma and so on, and then they could invite me because I'm from that profession, and I'm a technical face, and I'm an engineer like some of them here. And now I claim to know more than they do. Currently within the EU countries, not to put this dilemma and that questionnaire under our noses, there are dozens of disputes before the international court and all can, and they have no problem with going to court, it seems only Bosnia and Herzegovina for the only part with Montenegro. Croatia is already leading Slovenia, it agreed that, and now you know about... the country..., nobody's country between Croatia and Serbia, will lead the dispute before the court, that Croatia and Montenegro around Prevlaka will lead the dispute before the court, and it is not a problem. That it will lead Montenegro's dispute with Albania because as far as you know, I don't know if you know that Montenegro has won the use as well as Hong Kong that the United Kingdom received it, so the Treaty says for Ulcinj for 99 years, and will lead the dispute over Ulcinj because such an International Agreement is signed for territory after World War I. You didn't know this? So it's not part of Montenegro, it's used for 99 years, and that's what the International Treaty says. Thus, Rumunija and Ukraine had no problem restoring territory several dozen times compared to Sutorin. So is Hungary in dispute with Rumuni. 77 So they're around some islands, I really don't know what this is about, in the Atlantic in the Dutch and Denmark litigation. And it's not a problem that they're in the EU. So, I'm not picking it up right now. It seems that the only problem is that we're called Bosnia and Herzegovina and what I'm going back to is that it's more ethnically than our own country and the future of children in this country. And it is insecure for us to say, ‘Go in slowness, and what the judgment says we shall respect.’ Niko one calls and gives fanfare to go on a hike, but we're going on a slow trip. What is the problem then, and why did those who called themselves experts not write from which professions and experts? Why isn't that in this information, so let's see that they're from technical professions, polythologists, philosophers? And they're discussing international legal relations. It's something that's not right. It's not right for the simple reason we're downplaying the opinion of those whose strukaq it is and who are dealing with it. I suggest, I will now write it in writing, that given this statement our Commission invites the relevant, those who know it, and they will say it themselves – you are wrong or you are right, or here is the dilemma and should go in slow or there is no dilemma here and you should not go in slow. Experts, but not environmental experts, but experts who have such situations, from Slovenia, Denmark, Hungary, Romania, let them give, because they all follow the course of historical events well. They are not foolish, because they would not enter disputes and Rumunija would not have given the great Soviet Union to manage its territory in the Republic of Ukraine, at the time in the Soviet Union, put it back. And the biggest dilemma is, I say this now I can experience... and the pressure on all sides, don't forget that Montenegro gave its statehood and did not have its part in Sutorin, Bosnia and Herzegovina. By decision of their assembly, they abolished statehood and entered into Serbia without Sutorina. That's what to say, and that's how Knjaz Nikola had to go to Rome and, so he wasn't expelled, it was the Parliament's decision. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Knjaz, the Knjaz. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6256	Thank you, Chairman. 78 Here, I should have contacted Mr. Backović before, he took a good part of what I wanted to say, but I have no intention of getting in here on the scale of things he tried to talk about, the measure of things with regard to, it could already be said, the case of Sutorin. In my court, this should have been the commission's task, consisting of independent experts who would have been justified, so we expected, to offer representatives sufficiently valid reasons to, I would say, give a clear conscience to the court on this interstate issue that apparently divided the Bosnian-Herzegovina public a long time ago. So, without essentially getting into Sutori's problem, I focused more on the border treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. In particular, given the facts, firstly, that this so important document, the first that, after the resolution, after the secluded private republics, the transmutation into separate states, we bring, has been done so badly that it is not even harmonised, look closely at it, even with the basics of the Unique Rules. The second thing, that I eat, that the Treaty is not completed, is not to be decided by the Council of Ministers with contributions that are even listed in Article 2 of the Treaty itself, which are a description of borders and maps. And that's what I asked the Council of Ministers to answer me whether they had or didn't, although in Article 7 and in the Treaty itself there was confirmation that it was not. Third, in addition to the issue of Sutori's disputed identification of the border line in the Malinjak area, the area on the Foca-Pljevlja move is the area. And in that regard, I also tabled an amendment to my colleague Denis Bećirović's resolution. Now, I will try to conclude, no matter what anyone thinks about the Sutorina issue and how whoever in this House about it is going to remain a fact, first, yes, I will repeat, that the public, therefore, is divided, almost half-half, that, second thing – that the argument for and against us is not as we have imagined, as we asked, it seems we have agreed, an independent commission, we have already spoken instead, and it was already colleagues, instead we had, first – a multi-hour public debate at which, if anyone was present, everything could be heard, and so also that politicians were thieves, that pensions were late, etc., and it was about Sutorina, and this was also held this thematic session of the Constitutional Commission where they Sutorina, and here I will repeat, mainly, the members of the Commission for the border and, of course, all the civil servants who have been in this Commission, and this first Treaty, which they offered to defend, the matter. In addition, these intellectuals participated in this, many of them dear colleagues, but from different areas, at least they metric, machine, sociologist, psychologist, etc., with a wave of personal attitudes, what my colleague Backović said we could all say, which can't be any basis for us to make such an important decision. For those reasons, it seems like we're at the beginning. We've been talking about Sutorina for a long time, and at least in this House, it seems to me we haven't gotten far. So perhaps it would be best, and again I agree with the proposal to postpone the statement on this point until this has been fulfilled that the commission of independent, committee of experts in..., politologists, lawyers, historians and all that would help resolve this issue. If we do not agree on that, then that would be my proposal, but if we do not agree on that and we do decide today to vote on a resolution, I must point out, so now I am making my own point, that for a decision, or I remind you of the things that are common knowledge, there is no thing that matters so important. Today if we vote, that's it. And the other thing is that, if we plead, for the abovementioned reasons, I have said them – and this amendment and the question of the border and the lack of answers from the Council of Ministers, what I asked, that if the resolution is such a formulated question, I will support the resolution. Well, that's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6257	Thank you very much. 79 The word has Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, as far as I know Mr Bećirović, know that he has no last intention, that he does not enter political calculations when it comes to state interests, but I do not know the others that way, because he is not one member of the club, which counts three MPs, kept this story open for four months. This was done by the ruling coalition, and it is the ruling coalition that is responsible for the worsening relations with Montenegro, with our Western partners, in the end for the downgraded reputation and renaissance of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The ruling coalition is the one that called for a public debate which, so here, in order to say, was not suitable for this building, but we've seen others turn out so that it's all in the style of the ruling coalition doing business. Here, remind us, the first story about Sutorina was opened by a Bosniak member of the SDA presidency in an interview for... TV in November last year. It's the first time you've talked about Sutorina as a troubled area... Then the DF offered the amendment and further problemed this issue, and here we see that it is still further troubled, it is another member of that coalition. The PDP and the SDS voted in favour of the Resolution, i.e. were abstentions. And here's the ruling coalition with the exception of HDZ, of course. Now, this ruling coalition has kept this story open for more than four months, and the goal of all this was for the public to deal with Sutoria and not for the fact that at that time we had no Council of Ministers, that we had no indication when we would have the Council of Ministers, so we had to entertain the public with the story of Sutorina. If we had not had the government of the Federation of BiH, we had no indication that we were going to get the Federation government, that they were changing nationalities in order to comply with constitutional provisions, that they were said to choose the party and that they were proposing decisions on the appointment of the Federation government, so the agreement was withdrawn, etc. At that time, the story of Sutorina was to be made public. If we hadn't had the Budget, which looks like we still haven't. That the Federation of BiH Parliament has not passed a single law, not a single law of the Federation Parliament adopted since June of last year. And here, the way things are going to be right, it's going to be more than a year that we don't have any laws in the Federation Parliament. The fact that this House has not passed any laws other than the Law on the Elimination of White Bread, which we of the opposition, we of the SBB have proposed, and the public should have dealt with Sutorin and not those facts, not the House, the public should have dealt with Sutorin's rather than the opposition, as my colleague, Mr Đonlagić said, keeps the quorum here, we, if we go out, can all go away. And we told you at first our position, and we could calculate as well as you, but we didn't calculate, we said exactly our position, and you're all going to vote today, or the vast majority, as we said in the beginning to vote. And it may be the only satisfaction in this, although when it comes to state interests, I really don't see any satisfaction when, looking at such a disastrous way this was done by the ruling coalition. And we haven't calculated yet, we've already gone to solutions to citizens' problems. And for this very reason we have offered a solution, i.e. the removal of white bread, we have offered a solution to the question of the Serbian People's Club in the Federation Parliament and several other initiatives, also in the Federation Parliament, in the cantonal congregations, while the ruling coalition has been keeping public attention, the attention of Glaradians to Sutorin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6259	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered that one simple... structure, which my colleague made, I comment. Look, this would make sense really if the motion of this resolution were someone from the parliamentary majority, that structure would be given then and defended in such a way and probably, if nothing, the one who built the structure could believe in it. Such a structure in which the opposition party is a proponent of something and in which, therefore, it did not vote the position because it was the position, to hold the debate, but because everyone was pleading and each party according to how she thought it had or had no conditions to solve this issue, really, uh, is very interesting. As if now the SDP had stood up and said – here we were dealing with the election of Serbian delegates in the Federation so as not to think about some key economic and economic issues, and we of most did not propose amendments to the Electoral Law on this. Here, it's about that kind of structure. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to vote for this resolution today because I think there's a chance that this issue will be resolved positively for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, after all these violations of laws, economic, social issues, I still think this has a chance. So as long as there's any chance why not try to use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6262	The replica of my colleague Arnaut. In fact, this story with this point -- federal government, white bread, catastrophic ruling coalition, and everything else sounds to me like that public debate, which I reminded you, there's no pension, we're talking about Sutorina, then someone comes out and says no pensions. It is said that Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation has been undermined, that relations with Montenegro have deteriorated. I can't hear it for the first time, it's been repeated. I would really like to know how we ruined Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation by doing so. Are we going to bring down Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation tomorrow when the issue of delaying radioactive waste is raised because if we don't solve this quality way, we're going to have to re-enter some kind of arbitration. If we're gonna get our heads all over the place and say let's get along, it doesn't matter what's wrong with me, but in the name of good relations, well, let me forgive all that. As for the fact that I'm still insisting on checking the border line in the Malian area, I don't think anyone has the right to have one inch of this country, just to own it, to give it to another neighbouring country. Here it is, it's not a space of 87 km2 as it is in the area of Sutorina, it's 42 ha. It's not much, but there's no one right. I want to see someone, an expert, to say if that's the line. I simply doubt that it is, I have reason, and then I still don't trust the findings, the work of a commission that sits 10, 15 or how many years, the same people change eventually when someone dies. And this is the first contract we have, we know how important it is to us, with this Council of Ministers, all of us have gone unexploded material.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6263	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6264	Here, after these organised public debates and special sessions of the Constitutional Commission, we didn't get the material we expected, so I as a technical profession can hardly assess the legal situation and the legal issue that relates to Sutorin. We were therefore convinced that this special session of the Constitutional Commission with experts of international law would give an answer or a proposal for opinions, or a proposal for conclusions with an analysis of possible solutions, including what it is that Bosnia and Herzegovina can achieve international arbitration, which are consequences if we fail, and what Bosnia and Herzegovina loses if it enters international arbitration with Price Gore. Of course, we all have to be sure that we have good neighbourly relations with all the countries in the environment, and I think that if one dispute is opened, it must not endanger the relations of the two states, but based on relevant documentation and historical ones, we can call it misunderstandings, facts, and mistakes all together to be classified as relevant documentation and based on the fact that the right court is brought. In this report on the hearing, I personally miss that it is not, not all those who have been called, but only those who have responded are listed here, at least that's how it stands. And I think we should also keep those who are invited, so let's see if there was, whether there were experts who knew international law and this whole situation and who can give us real information and real conclusions. I therefore support Mr Backović's proposal that this issue be reconsidered and that we may eventually come up with a more concrete position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6265	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know, I'm in one situation maybe I wouldn't, it's not good that I'm gonna say this, but the more time I'm walking away, the less I know. This is a completely confusing situation, and I have a lot of criticism to address the BiH presidency. We need a president or a presidency that has vision, authority and strength to decide or direct something to the best possible way to reach a decision. Please, I will remind you only that the Commission has done its job, whatever the job is and whatever the Commission may be, and that the Council of Ministers is a material that came to the Bureau as a final material on 06 November. Since then, to this day, the Presidency has not come forward on this issue, it has not expressed its position, it has not given guidance except for, someone here mentioned, a public presidency came forward at a television station where something was talking about it. So that's something that's not what the presidency expects. Parliament has been involved in this process or in this procedure where it does not belong, without contesting the legitimate right of a colleague who has submitted a resolution of the best intentions. Seven months here, nearly six months and 10 days that this material is in the presidency, and that the Presidency is not advertised, and all this talk here could have been done by the Presidency. And that when the material ends it comes here, it comes to Parliament for ratification. I am sorry that those who have organised these discussions on behalf of the Constitutional Commission are not present here. So once again, it's very symptomatic that today is exactly the number of those who have been left behind from this session. I repeat again, if we went out now, this point couldn't even be realized by 82. So who does it serve to honor and whose cheek does it have to go to? We MPs in the House of Representatives are digging ourselves a pit from which we cannot get out and allow ourselves to be done with what is being done to us. We do not have enough authority and strength to oppose such intensities, so that Parliament, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is brought into this position. After these things that are happening to us, not only this about the Resolution on Sutorina, but all this that is happening to us, the criticisms that are coming to us, and even the unfounded criticisms that are being directed to us, will be even worse in the future, and we will be harder and harder to deal with the problem that will serve us. I therefore do not approve and I cannot agree with the way the Presidency reacts, this relationship between the arrogant Presidency or lack of authority, strength, power, knowledge, will and whatever you want to deal with is their question before it should come here to Parliament, and only then come to Parliament as a final document, or as a defined proposal. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6267	Thank you very much. You were Mrs. Vajzović's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6268	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6269	This is another replica, you have another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6270	In fact, I will briefly, prompted by this discussion by my colleague, Đonlagić, I want one thing, let's say that the rhetorical question – why are we not, not only did the Council of Ministers not get the full contract as expected and as it says in the Treaty itself, but here, colleague Arnaut asked us where the Treaty is, why has no one ever seen it? When I look back at this Treaty, it comes to my sense of speaking, you can either trust me or not, you can't check that the member writes that and that, so we never got that much. I don't know who was in debt, and we've been talking about this subject for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6271	Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6272	Thank you. This, I thank Mrs. Vajzović for restarting this issue, but here, I will remind her there were two or three initiatives, three initiatives on the Constitutional Commission and one initiative on this House to ask the Presidency to refer the Treaty to the procedure, to act in accordance with its constitutional and legal obligations and convulsantly, the struggle here was a struggle of the SDA-SDS coalition not to allow it. And the Treaty was in the presidency on November 06th, counterpart Đonlagić mentioned it, foreign policy is one of several only, but one of the main responsibilities of the BiH presidency. Here, since you asked me, but here is my colleague, Đonlagić, who had previously told you – the Treaty in the Presidency since 6 November of last year, and here was a frenzy fight that would leave the Presidency out of it and allow the Presidency 83 to have a non-chalant relationship to eskiate, either out of ignorance or I don't know from what, to eskiate its foreign-political obligations. And yet I say, all so that people don't deal with, is, uh, the fact that we don't have, that we didn't have the Council of Ministers then, the government of the Federation, the Federation Parliament didn't pass laws, budgets, etc., etc., that a little bit of fun with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6273	Thank you. If no one else answers my word, I'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6274	Proposer of Resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6275	I really, uh, have to say that this isn't right at least, this is today the second, third time after I conclude the debate, the key is pressed. And I'm going to give you my word now, because you're a pronoun and you know the future when I say that the debate is concluded that I won't allow a debate while I'm sitting here with anyone after that. Mr. Bećirović, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6276	Mr. Chairman, if anything is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no matter what it means or who it concerns me. So, what are we discussing today on this agenda? A great injustice that has been committed towards our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to every man, citizen, nation, country as a whole. And it's perfectly natural to have this reaction of ours. In all this time, for the five, six months that we have been discussing, no MP has denied the fact that it is an injustice towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is about an injustice that has been done contrary to the provisions of both the federal and the republican Constitution of BiH. We are only here in Parliament that differs from what the answer to this injustice should be. A number of international agreements have been signed in the past 316 years, several international conventions have been held, a series of constitutions have been passed, and all of them have treated the territory of Sutorina in Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the Karlovsky Peace, through the Pojarevack, the Vienna Congress, the Berlin Congress, the Sangermen Treaty, the Vidovdan Constitution, to the SFRJ Constitution. So there is not a single international congress and contract that did not locate this area as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is very important because it is important here in the BiH Parliament to send a clear message that the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not artificial, nor political and lay, as some have claimed, but very well-founded and internationally recognised, and it is our obligation to affirm and protect them. We have received information here on the demarcation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro in the Sutorina area, which was delivered on two and a half pages by the State Borders Commission. On the other hand, the Commission, arguing its views, also cited this part of the border line identification process between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, also calling for some of the laws adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as the '47 administrative and territorial division law. And not to list everything that's written here. Of course there must be a question here – how is it possible that our State Commission quotes laws and does not quote constitutions, neither federal nor republican? I guess we all know there's a hierarchy of legal acts, can the law be greater than the Constitution? Why didn't Commission 84 quote the constitutions, and it did some laws... so. here in the material, which is in front of us? We'll daći a direct answer to that – it's not because in Article 12. The constitution of the People's Republic of BiH, the first postwar one, stands – opposed to the Constitution of BiH, any act aimed at the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina on its territory, including territorial sovereignty. So they knew people would do an anti-constitutional act if they had acted differently. That's why it's never been verified by any competent authority. Why didn't our commission put it here? Because in Article 13. The Constitution, not the law, the Constitution of the People's Republic of BiH stands – the borders of the People's Republic of BiH cannot be changed without the consent of the People's Republic of BiH. And Article 46(2). – The decision to agree to amend the borders of the People's Republic of BiH is in the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of BiH. What it says in the Constitution of BiH, all the subsequent constitutions of '53. Constitutional law, Constitution '63. And in '74, they all repeat it less, so there is no change of boundaries without a decision by the Federal Assembly and without the consent of the Republic Assembly. Has it ever been done? We know the answer, it's not. Why didn't our State Commission write it here? No, because if she quoted the Constitution as saying FNRJ, Article 12 clearly states the Federal Constitution – the borders of the People's Republic cannot be changed without its consent. Article 44(3) – the jurisdiction of the FNRJ shall include the distinction between the republics. Has the National Assembly of the FNRJ ever discussed and changed the boundaries established by the Yugoslav Assembly now after these five months we can definitely say the answer is – not. Why am I talking about this hierarchy of legal acts? Because I guess we all know so much that there is a clearly graduated order of legal acts based on jurisdiction and subordination, and there is no commission here in Parliament to quote the laws of that period, not to quote the Constitution as the highest legal act. So after these five, six months, we can freely say that we did not get an answer here to the question of how did Montenegro ever gain ownership of Sutorin? Does anyone know the answer to that question? Do oral talks and possible agreements have any legal fact in international law? We should have gotten that answer, too. According to which member of the Constitution, federal or republican constitution, Sutorina is singled out from Bosnia and Herzegovina, do we have an answer to that question? We don't. How did we even get this Sutorina as Bosnia and Herzegovina? It has been part of Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than 500 years. The Yugoslav Assembly, not just any assembly, but a planetaryally recognised Yugoslav Assembly, has assigned Sutorin to be part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such limits as were assigned to her by the congregation could only be changed by that congregation, according to the Constitution, with the consent of the republican congregations. It's not done. So today is the first time I've told you something here that I haven't talked about before. That February of '45. when it was decided to recognise Bosnia and Herzegovina within the Berlin Congress, which is AVNOJ's decision, in the same month it was decided on the status of some other parts, some of them do not know but Sandzak is until '45. I have had my Earth Anti-fascist Council, and a representative of Montenegro at that AVNOJ session Marko Vujačić says – it is not politically justified to vacate Sandzak, if it should not already be, quote him, a special administrative and economic area I suggest that it be part of Montenegro. And that was responded by Serbian representative Sreten Žujević, who said he was against the reconstruction of Zetska Banovina. The result of that debate was that Sandzak was divided and that there is today's border between Serbia and Montenegro. Now the question is raised, and colleague Vajzović is absolutely right, there is no more correction after this – as it is possible for Montenegro to get everything from AVNOJ, here we are now talking about the Sandzak case, respecting what she has received from Bosnia and Herzegovina with Sutorin to subtract it from Bosnia and Herzegovina beyond the procedure envisaged, and very clearly, in the federal constitution and republican constitutions. And this is the first time I've said this - how have other territories and borders changed in the former Yugoslavia? Special decisions are also made at the republic or province level, and all of which has been verified by the Yugoslav Assembly. And that is the case for you with both Sandžak and Kosovo and the Slovenian coast and Istria, etc., which have been assigned to Croatia and Slovenia, but the decision has been made by the Federal Assembly. 85 E now raises the question – what is the problem that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are asking that, through civilised, peaceful dialogue, by escalating facts and arguments, let us shed light on this issue and come up with a real solution that will fit the facts as well? Why should Bosnia and Herzegovina be subject to rules that do not apply to other countries? There are territorial disputes in other EU countries as well. Great Britain and Spain have long had a dispute over Gibraltar, Turkey and Greece. The Aegean dispute, the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom, the Swiss, Austria and Germany dispute over Lake Boden.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6277	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6278	I remind you of a provision by the Rules of Procedure that gives the motion for a resolution a little more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6279	Not once, but not a few times.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6280	Well, I know, but you've reopened the debate, so I'm guessing there's some analogy in it. Then the issue of the Netherlands and Germany, the issue of Slovenia and Croatia, the issue of Romania and Ukraine, a similar example from the Soviet Union, Rumunija, in an international court, restored the territory. The issue of Montenegro and Croatia are going to international court around Prevlaka. The issue of Croatia and Serbia several months ago has been disputed about 10,000 ha of land on Serbian and about 2.5 thousand ha on the Croatian side. Both decided to settle it in front of the international court. We will get most of this today, but we will not find out here in Parliament today whether we have found the right answer to this question. We made decisions too often, and then it turned out that those weren't the right decisions. I also have to say that by giving up Sutorina, and some are trying to convince us otherwise, we will not solve any other issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor schools (?), no blockades, no entity vote, no other issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm afraid we'll just send a message that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the softest tissue in this part of Southeast Europe and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is subject to rules that don't apply to any other state. And we're not just returning that Sutorina from 2014 and '15. For years, that story has been going on for 70 years. The Ministers in the Government of the People's Republic of BiH asked for it at the time of 1947, even the National Assembly in '46. One letter of instructions, some presidents of the BiH Assembly in the 1960s, not to mention everything else, until the MPs in the previous assembly here, one of the colleagues who proposed it is not there, until this resolution. In fact, this situation shows us how difficult this has always been for the principles and for the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can imagine when this kind of pressure is in the multiparty system that it just looked like in a one-party system. As for ministers Ćemerlić, Toda Kurtović and many other people who had the strength to ask at the time how you took it from Bosnia and Herzegovina past any constitution in the country. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to use the time, whether, which belongs to me as a proposer of this whole Resolution, but I want to end up with the following words – my position remains the same, I am fully convinced even more than when I proposed this resolution that we have arguments and facts on our side. As far as I'm concerned, I remain in the position to always defend Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests at all times. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6281	Thank you. If no one ever answers my question again, I'll close the debate. We're moving to agenda 22, that's Ad. 22. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives At meetings of the House of Representatives Colleges and the House College in an extended composition, held on 12.05.2015, it was agreed that for the secretary of the House of Representatives, the secretary of the House of Representatives should propose a coalition headed by the HDZ. Marin Vukoja is the secretary of the House. Let me also point out that it has been agreed that the secretary of the House of Peoples is proposing a coalition of the Alliance for Change from the RS. The motion for a decision to appoint a secretary has been made. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6283	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6284	Yes, she can, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, First Deputy Chairman, ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, since you said that under this point of appointment of the Secretary of the House of Representatives you received the motion for a decision in your materials, I was just about to respond to the proposal for a decision that I received in the materials, so this is an invitation for our services to continue to take care of some of the principles and formulations, or it is their job. One of us MPs doesn't have to be professional and competent, but the services that work and provide us with suggestions for such decisions must really be competent. The proposal for this decision states – Marin Vukoja is appointed secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives on 26.05.2015. The second item says the decision comes into force on the date of adoption and will be published in "The Official Journal". In a legal sense, no one can be appointed today, and a decision can be made subsequently, but it can be named before it comes into force that is the reverse case. I therefore propose that this proposal for a decision states that Marin Vukoja is appointed as the secretary of the House of Representatives, meaning he is appointed today, and this decision will take effect on 26 May and will be published in the Official Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6286	Thank you. 87 I think that's quite all right and take care of it, about this, therefore, discussion when we vote later. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, he asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know whether it's a common practice or not, but I would take advantage of the opportunity to thank my colleague, Reljić or Mr Reljić for his very correct co-operation, because it was really nice working with him at times when we're like a club, so let's go some of us and we're all new here, but in it we had a very correct associate and support for everything that was related to administrative procedures, and otherwise we would have noticed that during the course of work, during the session, that he was very constructive. So here's what he's saying, if we weren't overly commendable, I'd thank him once more and congratulate him and wish him all the best in his future work. And hopefully, not thinking about anything in this solution that is suggested that it will be less good, but here we are to highlight these positive features and characteristics of Mr. Reljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6288	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Mešić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6289	Mr. Chairman of SDP's Club of MPs is joining the positions said by Mr. Đonlagić. Mr. Secretary was great and the best of his life.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6290	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6291	The Democratic Front Club also thanks on behalf of all members, thanks once again and happily in future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6292	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Mešić is having another discussion, what is this, Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6293	Well, I have to say, I think this is a very problematic solution that's been agreed, uh, between the two colleges. I've just spoken to my colleague Pandurević, she's informed me, after all, this is the place that belongs to the SDS, and of course it gives the SDS the right to agree on a variant like this, and I have to make my point. So, 88 this is my view, that the solution is bad, that I still think Srbin should have belonged to the secretary of the House of Representatives, has their reasons, we all know why. What hasn't been a practice so far, and if it's a practice it's going to be good, which is the principle of rotation, so if next time it's going to rotate and it's going to be different, it can be something that can indicate that we're going in the right direction, or that we're going in the right direction, because so far it wasn't. Look, there's a series of problems here that I don't want to open today, but I'm going to open at one of the next sessions, starting with the secretary of the ministries, through the sector managers here in the administration and a series of other problems where it's obviously over a longer period, so in the previous period, a little by little second-largest people came into third position. Whether not taking enough care of it or for some other reason and initiative, I don't want to talk about it today, especially I don't want to talk about it until, uh, and this question, I said, I'm going to open up with exactly all the names and last names and names of the sector, and we're going to have to have a discussion about it once. So, even though I find this problematic, personally problematic, I will not prevent the adoption of this proposal. So I will not prevent just because this is part of a whole, whole agreement within the parliamentary majority here and because, ultimately, the president, the vice-president and president of the SDS, has accepted both part of that agreement and I will not, out of respect for it, prevent this. Otherwise, uh, I have to say that I don't like this, this way and this kind of thing, so I'm not going to say blackmail, but I don't like any kind of pressure anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6294	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6295	Thank you. I'm only interested now because Mr. Novaković mentioned something very interesting, that this is part of a broader agreement, we're talking about the division of positions, we're talking about, so, one bigger deal and you're not going to stop it, I'd really like... an answer to the question of what is all of that agreement then? Because we have parties in the ruling coalition who have said that they will not participate in any agreement on the division of positions, etc. So this is not just about two Home Secretarys and the head of the Joint Service, but as Mr. Novaković said it was part of a broader agreement, obviously so important, that besides all these criticisms, he is not ready to stop it. Well, if I don't get an answer, I don't know, we're going to ask a parliamentary question, but it would be interesting to see what that broader deal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Monika Tomić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6297	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to thank Mr. Reljić in front of HDZ BiH, so for the co-operation over the last five to six months. And by the way, I personally know Mr. Marina Vukoja, I think that 89 of us could all read his resume, and I don't think it's correct to talk about such a man in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6298	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6299	Thank you. I want to say, and I feel obliged to say this, that the current secretary of the House of Representatives really worked consciously and correctly and professionally his part of the job. That's what I've been convinced of and directly cooperating with him over the years, and I'm not going to repeat everything that the SDP Club Chief has already said. We are, therefore, against the removal of this secretary of the House of Representatives and certainly will not support another solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6300	Thank you. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What you would say... is, I mean, first of all, it's probably a clumsy one, given a clumsy argument that the esteemed Mr. Marin is not the happiest solution. I, as a delegate in the former assembly at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, know for sure, and can argue that he was an extremely, extremely correct secretary and indeed co-operation with him was at the highest level. But I do not want to make a public event, of course I appreciate Mr Reljić, the fact that, in this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it is rarely when a new person who is very, very responsible, is able to meet with good knowledge, indeed, with the capacity of Mr Reljić, and aware of the fact that in certain, for example, people who absolutely do not have the competences for the jobs they work on, here is a decisive opportunity that there is one thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we all agree on. Here is when we all were so heartily congratulating Mr. Reljić, what he really deserves, let's find a way to keep Mr. Reljić in the Parliamentary Assembly, to show good will for a quality fit, with all the welcome Mr. Marin, for whom I can only say the most beautiful words as a longtime associate. But for people like this, I think all parliamentary, and those who are opposition and position, can take care of it. We all complimented him, so given the fact that there is a redistribution in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we could all think about it. And thank you, Mr. Reljić for your correct cooperation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6302	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6303	Thank you. Just what Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović said, I think it's something that we could absolutely support. I've personally learned a lot from Mr. Reljić and I join my colleagues at my club, but here, if we can all agree, I think that would be an ideal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6304	Thank you very much. I'll talk about Mr. Reljić in the end, when I have a chance to speak as chairman. If no one answers the word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the 23rd agenda, Ad. 23. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH At meetings of the House of Representatives and the House College in an extended composition, held on 12.05.2015, it was agreed that the secretary of the House of Representatives should propose the Democratic Front. Aida Koristović was proposed as secretary of the Joint Service. The motion for a decision to appoint a secretary has been made, with this discussion that Mrs. Krišto had concerning the legal technical processing of this Decision, also valid for this Decision. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Predrag Kožul asked for it, but keep an eye on these tasters, let me know here. Who else does? Is there anyone who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 24th agenda, Ad. 24. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to, for the first next session of the House of Representatives, prepare and deliver the Information on the procedure for the evaluation and approval of the location of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste Management of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia"
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6307	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Extended College for putting this item on the agenda for today's session for the reason it has been a topic that has unfortunately been in realisation for many years. And these latest announcements from the Republic of Croatia to continue the process of assessing the convenience of the location in the Shop Gora for the accommodation of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre have been alarmed by the re-publicisation of the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I also don't want to take up too much of your time, because here's a game of cases today several times, through discussions of the agenda of this session, I mention this location and the intention of Croatia to place at this location of the Shop Mountain a landfill of radioactive waste, and that strongly as a representative of the citizens of the Unskosan Canton and the entire North-West region oppose that intention, and to repeat once again the attitude of citizens and the public that it is unacceptable to build or store on the Trade Mountain, namely the microlocation of the military storage complex Cerkezovac. This procedure takes more than 30 years. We've been working intensively, or we've been opposing this intention since '97. years, when the first initiatives were and when the Trade Mountain was proposed as one of the possible locations for this dump. I would, of course, like to point out here that the municipalities of both Buzim and Bosanski Novi, Novi Grad have brought resolutions and the most recent resolutions have arrived at authorized addresses and we hope that this overall activity by local communities, by entity ministries, will bear fruit, and that together we will get one of the most accurate information about the process of talks, evaluation and approval of that location, and that we will clearly state that these intentions for Bosnia and Herzegovina are unacceptable, i.e. that they have the consequence of reducing the perspective of the development of this region, but I also want to point out the unspeakable consequences for the health and life of citizens in these areas. I thank you again for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6308	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Mešić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6309	Mr. Chairman, you will forgive me a little bit of this indifference that results from your quick conclusion of the previous point, and here's just one sentence. So, the SDP Club thanks Mr Buljubašić, secretary of the Joint Service of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, for self-absorbed, disciplined and responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6310	Okay, it was a debate about the previous agenda, but here's what we can do, is it? Since no one's answering my question anymore, I'm closing the hearing at point 24. Moving to point 25, 92 Ad. 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Be careful, therefore, in this Commission here, it is such a structure that two members of this Commission should be from the opposition, according to the Revision Act. We didn't make a deal yesterday at the college session, so we can't suggest. We need to make a detailed agreement on this matter, in order to respect the law, so we suggest we postpone this issue until the next session. Prepare to vote on this proposal to finish. Vote now, so who's in favour of this proposal? So there aren't enough MPs from, have they all voted?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6312	It's all of them, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6313	We need to repeat the vote. Wait a minute, one moment, please. We'll do it again. So we repeat the vote. We vote on this proposal to postpone, therefore, this item of the agenda, while the College prepares it until the next session, since it is not prepared today. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 22 for, 1 against, with enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted this conclusion to postpone this until the next session. We're going to point 26. Ad. 26. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly The joint college of both homes is, in accordance with Article 51(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH and the established obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, set out that proposal for a conclusion – it is necessary for the House of Representatives to appoint three members to the Interim Joint Commission of both homes. The College of the House proposed that they be, therefore, the same members as in the previous Commission. These are Ms. Mensura Beganović, Nenad Lalić and Nikola Lovrinović. And that's the proposal we're going to make today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6315	Business... 93
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6316	Mr. Damir Arnaut, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6317	We don't have written material for this point, do we? So, these three suggestions you've read we don't have in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6318	So, you, are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6319	Article 67(1), chairing in agreement with the deputies, calls on the House meeting, proposes the agenda. Call for a session, the agenda is delivered, the material prepared for the session and if it is... delivered to the MP with a call to the session. This is the fourth time we've gotten lines past names. It hides from the media a proposal and then reads at the session itself. As an MP to offer a conclusion here, you won't accept it unless I deliver it in writing. For the fourth time, you have submitted proposals for temporary commissions, working groups, etc. with lines and then read the names quickly. We really insist on delivering this in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6320	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move to the 27th point of the agenda, the proposal for a conclusion on the formation of Interresorna.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6321	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6322	Mirsad Đonlagić, business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6323	Mr. Chairman in accordance with Article 83. The SBB Rules of Procedure are requesting a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6324	Based on the SBB's request, I'm taking a 30-minute break. Here you go. We'll continue at 5:45 sharp. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The president of the SBB Club asked for a break. I call on the president of the SBB club to manifest itself after the break is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6326	That's what I'm guessing the quorum is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6327	You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6328	Mr. Chairman. We asked for a break to agree and take a stand on this agenda point and to take a stand based on the proposal. That's one thing. And secondly, to give you the opportunity to maybe respect the Rules of Procedure, or to make a written proposal for this working body, and possibly for those other working bodies that will follow. Unfortunately, we haven't received that proposal in writing yet. But here, that's an explanation why we asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6329	Thank you very much. You got a proposal without a name, that's true. You've been given names today and you have a complete, therefore, proposal. We're moving to agenda 27, Ad. 27. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation – Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Joint College of both homes proposed that conclusion, with the aim of completing the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 7th session, was held on 10.03.2015, and the conclusion of the House of Peoples from the 3rd session, since 30.03.2015, of the report on the conduct of the 2014 General Elections. It is necessary for the House of Representatives to appoint three members in the Interresor Working Group. The College of the House and the Enlarged College proposed the appointment of MPs: Hazim Rančić, Borjana Krišto and Lazar Prodanović. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnaut is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6331	Mr. Chairman. Intervention, Article 67. Rules of Procedure, Section 2 again, you delivered materials without a name. So I really, really want to show you, we have lines here. That's supposed to be on the College, you've had 24 meetings and more to give us the names of those people in writing. I am now 95 again, as an MP to offer a conclusion, a resolution, an initiative, anything in oral form, you would immediately refer to the Rules of Procedure and you would not accept it, you would ask me to deliver it in writing. We gave you half an hour to deliver in writing, obviously there's some reason you don't want to do it. Please be aware of my request and enter this business intervention into the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6332	So, the Rules of Procedure are respected. You got a decision without a name. You've got names now, you've got names and you've got a complete decision in writing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If you get an answer and please don't lead the controversy with me. It's a closed debate. Mr. Đonlagić asked for a word. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6334	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the situation is exactly the same as the previous point, we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6335	You have a 15-minute break. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Everyone has a right and a duty. The MP for the occasion, therefore, please listen to me, therefore, the MP has the right to every item of the agenda, a club of MPs, to seek a break. You're looking for a break. I'm obliged to take that break. The public is watching what they do in this House. Time out for 15 minutes. We'll continue at 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6338	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak again, regarding the search for our break. So we're looking for a break to agree on further procedures regarding both this point and this point to the end. 96 Since we respect both you and the function you are acting, unlike your colleagues from the parliamentary majority, we have decided to allow today to hold a session of the House of Representatives, because our date could not be organised by the House session, or because of the lack of quorum you would be forced to interrupt the session. Once again, we ask you to respect the Regulation literally, because in any case, when the Regulation is broken in such a way as it is in this and in the previous point, we will seek a break or we will decide that, possibly by some other measures, we will try to fight in a way that is only available to us, so that things will be as we believe they should take place in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6339	Thank you. So, I'm opening a debate on the 27th point, and I read her introduction. Mr. Damir Arnaut asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6340	Thank you. So, first of all, I will explain this proposal for a conclusion which I have delivered and which is shared by all MPs by the official services of Parliament. So, when it comes to Article 2 of this proposed conclusion, we do not have to sign up for anything in this article, it has been delivered in writing, we ask that the following point be added to the score and the next text "and at least three representatives of the NGO sector will be included in the process of amending and supplementing BiH's election law, in line with the criteria set out by the Council of Ministers of BiH." We have seen very clearly how much their participation in the electoral process has been useful for the purpose of preventing election theft, election surveillance, etc., so we believe this is necessary, and of course we leave it to the Council of Ministers to establish the criteria in which at least three representatives of the NGO will be involved. That's the first supplement, then. In Article 4, again after the point at the end is added to the point and after the comma, the text “at the latest until 01 February 2016”. Because this Article 4, which you also delivered in writing, and we do not have to write anything with a pen, says that the Interresor Working Group task is to prepare an amendment to the Election Law, and to refer it to the homes of the parliamentary procedure by means of an authorised legislator. Now, that's really too open. Do not wait for 2018 so that something is referred to in the procedure, because we know well what it was like last year when there were a series of amendments, proposed amendments and additions to the Election Law, mostly for pre-election purposes and of course none of them were adopted, so it is necessary to define the deadline. Now, why February 1, 2016? Well, because this is really the deadline if these amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law were to be applied for local elections, is it, which will be held in October most likely next year, but the CEC's obligation is to call them six months ago. Which means that if we do not receive the proposal in the procedure by 1 February at the latest, it will not be adopted within the time limit for the CEC to apply this new, or new Electoral Law, or the text of the Election Law with amendments and amendments, so that the deadline is absolutely necessary. And the final change, and this is something that the SBB has been constantly insisting on since its founding, a member of your 6th proposal, which is also delivered in writing, and we need nothing to pen 97, says – every institution that has representatives in the Interresor Working Group will bear the cost of fees for their work, after the point is added the comma and the text "but the fee cannot be paid for work during regular working hours." We believe it is absolutely unacceptable to create a commission of what we are convinced of, as this is proposed, six from the Parliamentary Assembly, by 3 from the CEC and the Council of Ministers, so at least 12 hours, all of these are state institutions, and that these people are paid for something we are convinced of, and the practice at the end shows, they work between 9 and 17. I don't know about a committee meeting after 17, here's a quorum that can't be secured after 17, let alone a commission meeting after 17 hours. I don't know about the commission or the Interresor Working Group meeting on the weekends, so this article 6th without this intervention that the fee can't be paid for work during regular working hours is absolutely unacceptable. Because what we're talking about, I mean, we're adopting Budget, we're in constant debt, and we're getting paid by various commissions. You literally have a situation where, say, an MP can have a session here, get paid by the MP, get out of the session, attend the Interresor Working Group to amend the electoral law, the opposition provides him with a quorum while he's there at that session, but he takes the daily. That's no longer possible, that is, if the ruling coalition is asked, maybe it can, but here's ours to point it out. And I also think it would be reasonable that, since you haven't arrived yet and we've given you enough time to read who's called it from the House of Representatives, so we eventually write it in with a pen, although I really don't see why it's the fifth time that things are delivered like this without the names listed. What's the reason for writing a pen something? I mean, you can't say that to someone in a pen, and you're telling a State MP to sign in with a pen. Well, it's really unprofessional and it really violates this House's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6341	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6342	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the Commission for Gender Equality, I think someone from this Commission should be a member of this Interresor Group. That's what I'm explaining to the next fact. So we have 14 governments. Of these 14 governments 12 are formed, 2 are not yet formed, so we have 153 ministers and prime ministers, of which only 23 women, which makes up 14.97%, means even 15%. I mean, this Parliament has a Commission on Gender Equality, and it doesn't take care of that. We've formed commissions before, of course, in those commissions, women were very little represented. We have the Council of Ministers and also women were very little represented. On this occasion, I really insist that someone who proposes, and we don't have names, obviously someone suggests, someone already has a list, which, as well, one of the women in the Committee on Gender Equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6343	Thank you. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the 28th point of the agenda, 98 Ad. 28. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly - Proposer: MEP Damir Bećirović So MP Damir Bećirović submitted a proposal on behalf of the DF MPs' Club on 08.04.2015 to amend the members of the joint committees of both homes. A change has been proposed in the membership of two committees in a way that MP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražica, who was elected member of the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs, is now elected member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, and that MP Mensura Beganović, who was elected member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, is now elected member of the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs. The proposal for a decision was submitted on 13.05.2015. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 29th item of the agenda, Ad. 29. Consideration of Semihe Borovac's resignation as a member and first deputy of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by a second court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina law
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6348	I propose a conclusion on this item of the agenda, by which the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH is tasked to explore the possibility of new amendments and additions to the Funding Treaty for the railway project in BiH, so that a new priority stock can be added to the A1-technical description, in the section of the Description, in a way that a new point is added behind point d) to the new point: Point e) The share of the single line Dobrljin, the border with the Republic of Croatia, – Bosnian Novi or Novi Grad – Bihać – Focus, the border with the Republic of Croatia. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is also obliged to provide information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the implementation of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6349	Thank you. This way, if no one answers the word anymore, I conclude the debate and announce that we have exhausted the agenda of the session. Is 15 minutes enough to prepare for the vote? [[Common discussion]] We need to allow the services to ensure both this conclusion and the stenogram, so we'll start voting in 10 minutes. It's 6:30. We'll start here with a vote at 6:40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6352	The SDP Club is looking for...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6353	So, at the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again on this proposal to go to another reading. Vote now. 20 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has decided to go immediately to another reading. So we have made such a decision, the request has been accepted, and I am opening a debate on the Bill's proposal on Budget in the second reading. So this is a debate without a commission phase, here there are no amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Can I help you? Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on Budget in the second reading. Vote now. 20 votes for, 7 votes against, no abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2015 and in second reading. Let's go to point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, with the Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission Report. This is a negative report from the Constitutional Commission. If the report is adopted, the draft law shall be rejected, unless the report is adopted by the competent Commission to draw up a new report, Article 121(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 for, 14 against, therefore, no report of this Commission has been adopted and is going back to the Commission. Point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law, on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law on BiH police officers in the first reading. We are going to item 7 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Election Law of BiH – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. If the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is adopted 102 The draft law is considered to be rejected if the opinion is not adopted by the competent Commission to draw up a new opinion on the draft law, Article 113(3). Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 6 against, no abstentions ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6354	SDP again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6355	At the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. 18 for, 8 against, no abstention, enough entity majority from both entities. I find that the House of Representatives has adopted a negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and thus is considered rejected. Point 8. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 9 against, there's no 2/3 against any entity since this is the second round. I find the House of Representatives has adopted an emergency procedure request. Now I'm opening a debate on the law itself. I'm closing the debate. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 9 against, no abstentions, no 1/3 from Republika Srpska entity. I'm realizing we have to go to the alignment and go to the second round. We don't have a second deputy chairman present, and I declare that the alignment will take place later. We are going to item 9 of the agenda – Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2014. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote on the report. Vote now. Nine for, 16 against. I find that there is no general majority and that the Council of Ministers' report has not been accepted. 103 We are now voting on the conclusions of the Commission's opinion. We vote on the conclusions of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights which read – do you want me to read it to you? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] They want some, look, I think it's okay to read, uh, everything. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to improve and improve mutual co-operation through joint meetings, conferences, workshops and seminars. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is urging the BiH Council of Ministers to first obtain the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury prior to sending the bill to the procedure. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is urging the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the restoring ministry, to submit the same to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly before sending a Universal Perodic Report on Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly suggests that when Bosnia and Herzegovina's delegations are formed and appointed, such as the BiH delegation in the presentation of the Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights in BiH UPR, through the UPR, an ethical team to monitor the implementation of the Ethics Code on expression with children and children of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other state delegations will be appointed members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 5. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requests the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to, as soon as possible, in accordance with Article 8. The law prohibiting discrimination, delivering a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and proposing concrete legislative or other measures in this regard. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 10 abstentions, no objection, there's enough entity majority from both entities. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. We are voting on the conclusions of the Commission's Finance and Budget Opinion, which read: 1. The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives is asking the BiH Infectious Taxation Authority to submit a detailed report on the return of the VAT for '14 as soon as possible. one year after regional centres of the Administration, with a reference to all entities returned to VAT in excess of 50,000 marks. 2. The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives shall ask the Directorate for indirect taxation to provide information as soon as possible on the implementation of the NCTS project relating to the purchase of relevant equipment and the development of its own IT application. 104 3. The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives asks the Directorate for indirect taxation to provide detailed information as soon as possible on the problems that the Management has in the realisation of the collateral for capital investments, the construction of regional centres of the Administration, with a proposal for measures that would eliminate difficulties. Get ready to vote, listen to what I'm saying, get ready to vote on what I read about. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6360	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-13-0.u6361	We'll vote on that later, so we'll vote on the conclusion after we see what happens to this vote in the second round. Point 19. – Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad for 2015, material from the BiH Ministry of Defence with amendments and additions to the annual training plan and training of members and units of the BiH Armed Forces abroad for 2015. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that we have received information from item 19 of the agenda. Point 20. – State action plan on emergency cases of protection against ionic radiation in the event of an emergency, nuclear accident or damage, material of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the State Action Plan. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted the State Action Plan on emergency cases of protection of the population from ionising radiation in the event of an emergency, nuclear accident or damage, the State Regulatory Agency's material for radiation and nuclear security in the 20th agenda. 109 Point 21. – Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: Ambassador Denis Bećirović. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Zaim Backović, which reads: – The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is bound to invite relevant experts in the area of international law who are not interested in the countries that are members of the EU but are not in contact with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives College undertakes that, when a public hearing is held, it invites all interested MPs. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 6 for, 20 against, 1 abstention, there's no general majority. This conclusion has not been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for an amendment by Member Hanka Vajzović, which reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to form an independent expert commission that will determine the correctness of the contract established between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro at the border of the municipalities of Foca and Pljeva, the area of Malinjak. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 for, 17 v, 1 abstention, no general majority was accepted even this conclusion. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution of MP Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 for, 17 against, 2 abstentions, there's no general majority. I find Mr. Denis Bećirović's resolution on Sutorina has not been adopted. Let's go to point 22. – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We vote on the adoption of the Decision, i.e. the appointment of Marino Vukoja as Secretary of the House of Representatives, with the amendment proposed by Parliament Borjana Krišto, First Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A repeat vote by the SDS Club is required. We repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority and both Bosnian Herzegovina units. 110 I find that Mr. Marin Vukoja was elected Secretary of the House of Representatives with the date as stated in this Decision adopted today. I congratulate Mr. Marin Vukoja. Let me, dear colleagues and colleagues, now that I, as chairman of the House of Representatives, say that I have had the pleasure of working with a professional, and in the name of the College, I can say, colleagues Krišto and colleagues of Bosićš, to cooperate and to cooperate with a professional such as Mr Dragoljub Reljić, former secretary of the House of Representatives, or the secretary until the 26th, as we have decided earlier today. It's really about a top professional who's done his job in the best possible way, and I don't have any grudges. And I, as the chairman of the House of Representatives, would be happy if we could find ways in the context of conversations between us that one person who is a professional of this type should be kept at one of the jobs in the Parliamentary Assembly, but this is the subject of some future discussions between us, and we will see how these things will, therefore, go. Mr. Reljić I thank you on behalf of the House of Representatives for your correct attitude towards work. Politics is like that, you're on political duty like all of us, so you share the fate of those who are in political office. We're going to point 23. – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We vote on the adoption of the Decision, namely the appointment of Aida Koristović as Secretary of the Joint Service, with the amendment proposed by Parliament Borjana Krišto, I mean those dates and the entry into force. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 20 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the Secretary of the Joint Service appointed Mrs Aida Koristović on May 26th. I will also, this will be addressed to the House of Peoples for adoption, as this appointment also requires a decision from the House of Peoples, as it is a joint service for both homes. I am taking the opportunity to thank Mr Ferid Buljubašić on behalf of the House of Representatives, on behalf of the College, for the correct performance and professional performance of the work he has done. Mr. Ferid, according to what I know, he's leaving for a well-deserved pension. I want his pension to be as large as possible and that he enjoys it as long as possible, of course in health, joy and rickety, as we say in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 24. – Proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare and deliver the Information on the procedure for the evaluation and approval of the convenience of the location in the Trade Gora for the installation of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre, which is run by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia." We're voting on the adoption of this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, no problem, four contained, enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted this conclusion under point 24. 111 Point 25 was removed earlier by this House's decision on the agenda. We're going to point 26. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We're voting on the adoption of a conclusion. The proposal is to appoint MPs in the commission: Mensura Beganović, Nenad Lalić and Nikola Lovrinović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives adopted this conclusion at point 26. Moving to point 27. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut:... the conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the amendment of the Election Law in Article 2 is added, instead of the point, to the point after the comma of the text, which reads: "and at least 3 representatives of the NGO will be provided in accordance with the criteria set out by the Council of Ministers". In Article 4, point 4 is added after point of text, which reads as follows: "and no later than February 1st." And in Article 6 instead of point-point, and after point-point, the text reads: "but compensation cannot be paid for work during regular working hours." Vote now. 11 for, 14, against 2 abstentions, there's no general majority. This proposal for a conclusion has not been adopted. We are voting on the proposal, therefore, conclusion, to vote on the adoption of a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group. The proposal is for the working group to be called MPs: Hazim Rančić, Borjana Krišto and Lazar Prodanović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 5 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority from both entities. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Point 28. – Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – Proposer: MEP Damir Bećirović. You've seen what Preddog's decision is, there's no need to read it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, no problem, six abstentions. 112 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
