ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7562	Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. /
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7563	The meeting invited our guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of the media. Representatives of the High, Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all our representatives and our guests. I would like to note that we have been informed that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, is unable to attend the session because of the official trip to Vienna, I also note that Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is not in a position to attend the session because of his official trip. They also justified their absence by MP Milica Marković, representative of Saša Magazinović, and the delay was announced by representatives Željko Komšić and Safet Demirović. According to information from our service at this time there are 36 MPs present, so we have a quorum for work and decision-making. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask oral questions. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Mr. Šefik Džaferović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Fehim Škaljić, Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, Hazim Rančić, BiH Council of Ministers and Minister of Security, Staša Košarac, the chairman of the BiH Council and the Minister of Security. These announcements, in accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been secured, in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking parliamentary questions and giving answers. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the question is raised by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7564	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question was actually addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, so it is precise and the question is: - Which BiH institution is tasked with overseeing the border crossings of BiH? Are these surveillances being carried out? Are reports and to whom they are delivered, and what is the appearance of border crossings? I am particularly interested in who is responsible for the flag of the state at the border crossings, its appearance and its state? In the past few years, regularly when I cross the state border of BiH, I experience discomfort when I look at what it looks like and what the flag of BiH is like at many border crossings. That's what happened this year. At one border crossing, the flag of BiH was highlighted on a rusty mast, torn, down, burned itself on half a mast, and relied on a bush that had already grown near the mast. It is a sad and shameful picture of the state of BiH's mark and the first impression it gets when it enters BiH. If nothing, then BiH institutions can at least take care of it. Let them take a look at how neighbouring countries are treated with national traits, so let it be done when it comes to BiH. I ask that a special report be drawn up on this, to review all border crossings, to make up a special report on the overall situation at the border crossings, and to inform this Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7565	I thank the deputy, Mr. Džaferović. Since I said the question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, from the Council of Ministers, who is the minister who will give the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7566	Maybe next time, that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7567	Here's what I'm saying is that the Minister of Security is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7568	Honored chairman and members of the College, honourable MPs, dear guests. I just wanted to explain one thing and one situation, and then maybe later that, either purely informatively, to tell you, and then later to ask a more concrete and broader answer to this parliamentary question. The competent authority, the competent institution for the regulation and, as I would say, the management of border crossings is under the law of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, and therefore perhaps it would be the best solution to request a written or other kind of answer to this parliamentary question directly from the Directorate for Direct Taxation. Clear, more perhaps for clarification. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7569	Thank you, Minister of Security. Does a colleague Džaferović want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7570	Thank you, Madam Chairman, thank you for answering this question. Of course, I am not satisfied with the state of border crossings of BiH and the state of view and the position and state of the BiH flag at many border crossings. I ask you, put this on the Council of Ministers, give a warrant to review all border crossings, it's not expensive to put this in order at every border crossing and to carry out a regular inspection of this matter. For years, people have been doing this and nobody's doing anything. I've decided, although there are a lot of things that are a little bit more pressing, that this should be my first question at this session today, because the situation is that this is simply because of the shame, we can't take it anymore, we have to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7571	Thank you, Deputy. Representative Fehim Škaljić asked the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7572	Dear Chairman, Mrs. Krišto, I congratulate you on taking over the presidency of this honored House. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the Council of Ministers and wish you good health and fruitful work. For today, I would like to refer to the Council of Ministers one question in which we need to get an answer, but also to confirm the function of whether there is a coordination mechanism. In fact, the question is, what is this property of BiH and all its constitutional forms of government in other countries? The question should be answered by what form of property is, what is its value in books, what is the orientational assessment of market value, and what is the legal status? Is there a slow or a mortgage or something? That, by my request, involves the properties of all forms including apartments, financial assets on bank accounts in two periods, the one in '91-'96. and '96-2015. the years and the state of intellectual property of BiH and its protection. The review should show the state of property of BiH, entities, cantons and municipalities. I know it can be said that it's part of a different jurisdiction, but today we're in a position to talk about it differently. Then, the property of public enterprises and companies with majority state property. Which one was sold in this '96 period. and alienated, under what conditions, for what price and for whom? Certainly the answer to this question requires co-operation of multiple levels of government, which should not be a problem because these days, the executive authorities are asking us to work together.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7573	Time. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7574	Different levels warn that they have a coordination mechanism. Here's another sentence. So let's check it out. The content of the response and its argument can confirm or reject the present speculation in irregularities in these areas. I expect the answer by the December session, given the complexity of the issue. Thank you, and I apologize for the extension.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7575	Thank you very much, Agent Škaljić. Since the question has been asked to the Council of Ministers, and you yourself said you were expecting, do we expect today from one of the ministers to comment or will we
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7576	I'm not expecting today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7577	You don't expect it. Thank you very much. Then we expect to see the next, as you yourself said, answer. The next issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security, MP Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7578	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives. Is there a danger of overdoing the refugee crisis from neighbouring countries in BiH? Do the competent institutions take appropriate preventive measures in the event of a flood of the refugee crisis in BiH? Are we human and technical and in every other respect ready to respond to the challenge? If so, are BiH institutions ready to help refugees, as others have helped refugees from BiH, of course, by preventing all possible and unwanted consequences that could come with a huge inflow of refugees in BiH? In fact, we are witnessing these days in neighbouring countries, it is not good for these refugees, not these women, not those children, and, of course, those countries are facing problems. And not only our two countries in the neighborhood, this problem is much more pronounced, so here I am interested in whether we're ready for any problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7579	Thank you, Agent Rančić. Since the issue has been addressed, so also the chairman of the Council of Ministers, here is the fact that the Ministry of Security, I assume the minister will. Here you go, Minister. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7580	Thanks for asking. Dear MPs, when it comes to this problem and this phenomenon, I can say it is not recently and this problem has already been present for several years when it comes to the problem of the mass movement of refugees and migrants. And it is less known that after all these events down in the African region, a large wave came and ran and a large number of refugees who mostly go and want to come to Western Europe, i.e. the EU. Some are now estimated to have been running somewhere between a million and two million migrants lately, and that in some form of migration, in the last few years, I say, two or three years this wave of mass and uncontrollable migration has gone mainly through the Maghreb countries, so to speak, most of all, across the Mediterranean Sea towards Italy, towards the southernmost island of Lampadusa, and one section has gone towards Greece. In a way, after, let's say, escalating this economic crisis in Greece and certain problems, there was a massive movement of migrants from Greece and there was practically one new corridor of mass inflow that went from this war-side region and it was mostly refugees from Syria, I think somewhere at least 80% of refugees or migrants from Syria, this rest is the most from other 20%, from Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan. There are also migrants, or refugees, who are being inserted, so to speak, into these routes and these channels from countries that are absolutely not affected, let me say, by some type of Pakistan war crisis and so on, they simply use that opportunity to get to Western Europe. So, let me put it this way, more has now been rerouted through Turkey, a certain part of the Mediterranean down, Greece, now further from Greece via Macedonia, Serbia and heading towards Hungary. In fact, the problem has escalated to such an extent that, despite all attempts by the authorities of certain countries to stop it, it was impossible, so you saw that in Greece, the pardon in Macedonia, the Macedonian police and even the military tried to use certain means of forced decommissioning and stopping, the shock of bombs and other means, but simply did not produce any results, migrants continue via Macedonia now without any major problems going towards Serbia, and Serbia organised them to the North of the country because it excludes their desire to transit through this area and to go to Western Europe. In Serbia, relatively short, perhaps 6 to 8 hours they need to cross the territory of Macedonia and come to Serbia, enter the Presevo and Presevo Valley below, there is one reception centre on which they are accepted, registration takes place
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7581	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7582	Oh, sorry, as far as possible, I didn't know I was sorry. And we can now say that somewhere in Serbia there are between 90,000 and 100,000 of these migrants and that they have been staying here for a long time and that this route towards Hungary is actually still current. However, Mađar are doing everything to stop and most likely to be able to stop because somewhere recently, the estimates are some, will deploy about 2,500 soldiers up there, literally stop the corridor and visit then the real danger of one of these migrations heading towards BiH. We evaluate, monitor this situation, keep in touch with the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, one of the 6 international centres below in Macedonia that we have our permanent representative, follow this situation and at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers we discussed this problem and within the framework of the Ministry of Security, Interresorna one working group we will bring in one action plan by the end of this week to assess all measures taken from the security and humanitarian character. We have precisely planned our accommodation options, the acceptable accommodation of these illegal migrants, and the provision of the most basic humanitarian needs of, to say the least, food, accommodation and medical. We planned it all together with some international organizations here, and I hope we're ready to see this problem if it comes up, but here we still don't have that problem, but there's a chance it can happen. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7583	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to make a comment, please answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7584	Yes, thank you very much. The minister probably meant to give a comprehensive and comprehensive answer, so he spent a lot of time talking about the situation in neighbouring countries, which was not the point of my question. Finally, he looked slightly at the situation in BiH and about possible assessments and measures. So I would ask, since he talked very little about this situation in BiH on this issue, I would ask the Minister and Council of Ministers, given that the problem is much wider than the ministry's portfolio, to deliver a written reply. Here's what they're planning and what they're gonna do, so let's know.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7585	Thank you, Agent Rančić. Staša Košarac, a question from the BiH security minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7586	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you. A few days ago, media in BiH called for official reports by the Croatian Security Intelligence Agency, more than alarming data suggests that the number of radical Islamists from BiH who joined the Islamic state terrorists in Syria and Iraq exceeded 600. You can see that number is still growing. Given that the data in this report differ significantly from the data that we have had in the last few months to hear from BiH officials who are competent, or those who are dealing with a security problem, I ask the Minister of Security – How many truths in the data presented and is it true that the number of persons from BiH who go to war in Syria and Iraq continues to grow? If these data are correct, what are BiH institutions in charge of security doing to stop the growth of BiH citizens from going to the aforementioned battlefields? I also ask the minister – How many such persons have returned to BiH and what have BiH-level judicial institutions taken to apply new provisions of the updated Criminal Law that came into force in June 2014 and which provide for years-long prison sentences for 7 persons who join foreign paramilitary and terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State? More specifically, has any person before the Court of BiH been convicted on the basis of an amended BiH Criminal Law that has been in force for more than a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7587	The Minister of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7588	Thank you. I read about this information somewhere in the media, that Croatian intelligence services have provided, that there is such information from Croatian intelligence services on, somewhere over 600 people in BiH are located on the battlefields below and clean, to be honest, I doubt that this is official information from Croatian intelligence services, although it was media reports such as that and that they called for Croatian intelligence services. We have co-operation with Croatian security structures here and nowhere in correspondence with them have we exchanged such information, nor have we received such information from them. I can say that our security, and especially the Intelligence Agency with our partners has been following this whole situation very seriously for several years now, and that according to our data, there are currently around 130 BiH citizens who are at war and can be for a few people up or down, that is to say, perhaps so, depending on time and so on. But mostly this is the data that our intelligence and our security structures provide, that 43 people died in these conflicts over the past few years as our citizens go down to those battlefields and return about 50 of our citizens from the battlefield that are currently here in BiH. And I say once again, that information can be for one, two people up or down, depending on, to say from time to time lately, and from the possibility that someone's gone again or gone. So this is the data of our security and our intelligence structures, and that's the information that we share with all our partner services, and among other things with Croatian security services, and that's our information and that's our information. I wanted this second part of the question that says about the procession, it is true that we have passed, Parliament has actually passed a supplement to our criminal law where it has prescribed that it is a criminal offence and a criminal offence up to 5 years in prison who participates, who encourages, who coerces, who finance the departure, and that so far we are through operational processing
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7589	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7590	submit 19 reports on criminal offences committed due to incentives, funding, co-operation and participation in foreign war formations in Syria and Iraq. I have to say that out of those 19 indictments one after the investigation was suspended, so 18 charges are filed and one number, I'm not sure how many courts, the court has confirmed one number of charges, and the others are in court at the time of the confirmation of those charges. We don't have any final, definitive or judicial convictions, and it's very interesting, to say what kind of court's position on these charges will be, what 8 sentences will be, because it's rather complicated and complex works from the point of view of proving these actions themselves. In all these criminal reports and criminal reports, we offered one phantom of evidence that was sufficient according to the D.A.'s assessment. And I say once again, it is very, and here we are going to wait to see what practice in all of this, both in terms of evidence and in terms of saying the amount of punishment, will be taken by the Court of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7591	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Košarac, would you like a comment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Here at this point we've exhausted asking questions. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to mention the following: From the earlier agenda are the following: Point 3. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-18/15 of 29.05.2015, with the correction of the technical error in the Bill Proposal, issue: 01-02-1-15 of 01.06.2015 (second reading), at the request of the Finance Committee and the budget that requested the extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report. The college approved a 10-day extension. I point 6. – Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2014, issue: 01.02.01/1,02/1-08-861/15 of 30.06.2015 at the request of the Constitutional Judicial Commission, since the meeting was not attended by a representative of the High, Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The debate was attended by a representative of the Maja Gasal Vražalica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7592	Dear Chairman, I welcome all present. On our agenda under point 4. – Discussing the agreed reform agenda and the action plan related to the European route through Bosnia and Herzegovina, we in our materials have been given the consideration and material of the agreed reform agenda, but the action plan was absolutely not in our materials, so I propose the transformation of point 4 which will read – Considering a harmonised reform agenda in relation to the European route of BiH, without this action plan, because there is absolutely no action plan in materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7593	Thank you, Vražalica's advocate. Is anyone else picking up? Here I can comment that the position of the College, we have had this issue on the agenda and we have considered it, but I will remind you that the conclusion of this Parliament was that 9 this point is being considered in the way in the draft agenda and that it is said – Considering a harmonised reform agenda and action plan in connection with the European route of BiH, but the Council of Ministers delivered under this name as the colleague said. Of course, it was our obligation to put the agenda on point as we adopted the conclusion. Whether any of you now want to accept or agree, I think that this point material has come to this point and it contains something that the Council of Ministers thought we should consider under this, a proposal for a point in terms of a harmonised reform agenda and action plan. It really does not contain this action plan, it contains this part, but here if you agree we have left the draft agenda, which was the initiative of MP Nikola Špirić and he proposed, meaning the agreed reform agenda and action plan in connection with the European route to BiH. Here I would remind you all, so here, our proposal was also the position of the College that the point reads as it was adopted in this House. Here comes Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7594	I would like to thank Madam Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests. What I'm saying is, by analysing the agendas we have since this House's calls, these sessions are holding progress. It would be quite logical that our delegation today, or our representatives of the delegation, who are together at a meeting in Vienna, that this Parliament has discussed strategic projects for BiH, to avoid any speculation and politics within BiH. I actually think this Parliament is working... and what doesn't have an action plan is saying that we are acting... We want him to exist, but it's impossible, so this document when we talk about this reform agenda, I think it's a new phenomenon, in a sense, a new decision by Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac on which this country will run around for the next 15-20 years, and there will be no movement because it does not follow the action plan. Shall we oblige the Council of Ministers? So, will we, in one conclusion, oblige the Council of Ministers to report to us each time or every session, or once in a month, until they have come to terms with the realization of the non-existent action plan? How to measure work on that reform agenda at all if there is no action plan, if things are not armed. This is written as, no matter what, I don't want to be too common, I don't want to offend anyone, but this isn't just the work of the Council of Ministers, this is a combined rhetoric and writing of representatives of the international community in BiH and the Council of Ministers. And I'm against it, I've been chairing and vice-president for almost eight years, for the Council of Ministers to be an office for international mail. As long as that is how we will be able, we have been brought to an opportunity not to be able to hold two Parliament sessions during the month. There's no material. What do we talk about? In the last nine months or eight, as far as this House is working, we have adopted, not the law, but the amendments and the addition of three laws. What kind of European route are we talking about? That is why I can propose the same point today, I know that it will not get support, but at least this working conclusion which will oblige the Council of Ministers to go once a month in front of this Parliament through what has been done to realise the commitments made from the European pathway.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7595	Support this initiative of mine. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7596	I'll support it, not a problem, every initiative will support it, and you, for nothing, even if we adopt the Šepić initiative. What can they tell us if people went to Brussels and already today in BiH you have discussions that what people say is strategic projects, someone says no one has consulted us. As long as it gets into that story, there's nothing to do with the projects. So, I wish we had talked about it at Parliament just didn't agree, but here. So what the colleague was talking about and adopting it, whatever the point's going to be, is the essence of what's in the material. And in the material this reform agenda is written as sultan and... it's about to be written in... (?I apologize if I'm going to hurt someone and it's not my intention. Who reads me the responsibility of the BiH government from this agenda, I am ready to support it for the rest of my life. This assembly of Parliament will be deeply retired and the youngest members until the agenda is met. Now, that's our European way, just so you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7597	Thank you very much. Here I would just ask that the debate be on the agenda, and as far as this European agenda is concerned, we can when it comes to the agenda. Representative Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7598	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, I call on everyone here in Parliament to really benevolently and correctly accept this proposal of the honourable Parliament of Maja Gasal the Vražalica. We today have a agenda item bearing the name – Considering a coherent reform agenda and action plan regarding the European route of BiH. We are all witnesses as MPs that we have material bearing the title – Reform Agenda, but we as MPs do not have an action plan. I think that this is a quite correct remark and the only possible solution here today as we determine the agenda, is to discuss the reform agenda that has been delivered to the MPs, and to task the Council of Ministers to deliver to us for the next session an action plan that may be the point of the agenda already at the first next session. Everything else would really be absurd, because yet in the context of the agenda, the title of the agenda item must correspond to the contents of the agenda point, and in this case, in this second part of the titled point, it is clear that we do not have such material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7599	The replica was reported by Nikola Špirić, a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7600	I'll just take a minute. I think it's... if this Parliament wants responsibility and... Council of Ministers, to remove the reform agenda until we have an action plan. The people we're talking about. Does the Council of Ministers need five days, seven days, 15 days to tell? So if this reform agenda doesn't follow the action plan by hand, it's a hollow package. So nothing means 11 agendas without an action plan. I suggest that this point be removed and the Council of Ministers be tasked with making an action plan with the agenda, and while that makes it look like we have one item on the agenda. Otherwise this is how we take responsibility, and without the action plan, believe me, this is an empty story.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7601	Thank you. The debate, Senad Šepić, is a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7602	Well, here I am saying that I support this proposal from my colleague, Gasal, and Mr Bećirović, too. I am opposed to taking this thing off the agenda today, but I am in favour of reforming it in a way that we are only talking about the reform agenda today, and I am already in preparation for this agenda point, that is, the fourth item of the agenda, I have already prepared a written conclusion that actually sublimates what we are talking about, that until the next session, which is 15 days, delivers a clear, as I have already stated here, clear action plan with commitments, deadlines and responsible institutions and persons who have in this sense the responsibility to realise the action plan from the reform agenda. I think that this first part of today would end, and already at the next session we have clear deadlines and responsibility for all institutions and individuals...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7603	Thank you, Representative Šepić. Representative Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7604	I thank the chairman. I think our colleague Mrs. Gasal's proposal is something we should respect. The European path of BiH implies a process in which time is one of the... factors we must take care of. The measurement of that time is impossible without an action plan. Reporting and evaluation of the report reached is impossible if there is no action plan in which everything that is in time, by the perpetrators and by content is defined. That's why I suggest we support Mrs. Gasal's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7605	Thank you, Agent Škaljić. At this point, we see Representative Mirsad Mešić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7606	Thank you, Madam Chairman, with congratulations on good work, I propose that all MPs support the efforts made by Mrs Gasal and Mr Špirić, and that this very important document called the Agenda on the European Road to BiH, getting its action plan, become something that can be implemented in the coming period. I also believe that Mr Špirić's proposal, which says we need to get information monthly on BiH's European path to become an integral part of what is called the BiH Action Plan in the coming period on the European path. 12 So, by supporting these proposals, I believe that or that, I am not sure, today we are not discussing or obliged by the Council of Ministers to submit an action plan within 30 days or 15, as Mr Šepić puts it, and to provide them with the obligation to inform this House of current issues from the European road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7607	Thank you, counsel. Representative Damir Arnaut reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7608	I thank Madam Chairman, I take the opportunity to congratulate you on taking office and express my satisfaction with the same. What is typical here is that the Council of Ministers has been explicitly asked, i.e. the Council of Ministers has been explicitly informed that this House has adopted a point that reads – A coherent reform agenda and action plan. And then the Council of Ministers was asked explicitly to deliver relevant materials. And then the Council of Ministers, I guess consciously, delivered incomplete materials. I guess it's conscious, because if it's not conscious then it's a failure, so I don't know what's worse. But in any case, I think that this further shows one aspect of the Council of Ministers' relationship with this House that has been continued and that is why I join all my colleagues, especially my colleagues from my club, in support of this initiative by my colleague, Gasal Vražalica, because at the very least I need to send a signal to the Council of Ministers that this kind of behavior is not allowed and that this House, which is commanded by the Council of Ministers, will not tolerate this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7609	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nikola Lovrinović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7610	Thank you, Madam Chairman, congratulations on taking over the duties you've taken. Well, I didn't think I was answering the agenda, but as we are already discussing certain points, however, the colleagues who spoke here at the Joint Committee on European Integration did not support the very ideas that we had yesterday, so Mr. Šepić's idea of informing this Parliament even quarterlyly, yesterday did not get support. So you have it in writing. Also, the proposal of the Joint Committee for European Integrations, which I have proposed, was discussed at the session that we have a thematic session with all BiH institutions that will report on the European integration process, has also failed. So, he didn't pass by our counsel yesterday. Now I'm stuck like this, I hope you'll now support Mr. Šepić's idea, you have an initiative there, I asked at the College why it was put on the agenda when the Committee's negative opinion is negative, and now you're telling a second story just the ones who did yesterday didn't support such ideas. I don't mind particularly to change this about the action plan, so because we don't have it, but it's very interesting this debate, so now, but when the time comes, we'll... 13 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7611	Thank you, counsel. The word came from MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7612	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't want to be Council of Ministers' lawyer, but I see there are several members of the Council of Ministers, even the vice president, and I'd like to know if there's even an action plan or not. If there is no need for someone to come out and say there is no action plan and to delete it from the name at least the agenda points and to consider only the European agenda. Therefore, as a club to be responsible for the citizens of BiH, he also suggested that we have information on BiH's European progress as one of the points of the agenda. And we don't see anything wrong with that except that it's one big commitment to the Council of Ministers. Why, what bothers them to inform us about progress, problems on the European path of BiH and so on. So I think the proposals here are quite correct. I would not support the removal of the full agenda point as fellow Špirić suggested, but that the name of the point be restructured and that we consider only the European agenda, and that we are provided with an action plan if there is, if we do not let the next session finally be, to see the light of day and to consider, to see the essence of the agenda, because we in the Club too have a number of questions to the Council of Ministers when it comes to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7613	Thank you. For the debate, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7614	Thank you, gentlemen chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the hall, this and to say that I'm partially surprised by these discussions, that someone doesn't respect us and say that the Council of Ministers doesn't appreciate us, so we don't respect ourselves. I would remind you of the initiative that we launched on 10 June as a Club of the SBB concerning the problem of the Energy Community, but this House did not adopt this and simply this initiative, in fact a request, one conclusion, a proposal to commit the Council of Ministers to inform us exactly what the problems are, and which is why we are in a position to criticise us, did we not fulfil our obligations when it comes to the Energy Community, the contractual obligations we have made. However, we did not adopt it, we did not show respect for the problem and respect for ourselves, so that just a few days ago, the European Community, or the Energy Community, is preparing a sanctions package for BiH. And what are we talking about now? We're talking about someone disrespecting us. First of all, we must respect ourselves, be consistent and be correct, accept proposals and those coming from the opposition, and not just proposals coming from the position, treat the quality of this proposal, according to a reasonable one proposal, and only then will others respect us. 14 Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7615	Thank you. Debate, representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7616	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me really, first congratulate your presidency, so you're the first woman to head the House of Representatives, I mean from the establishment, and it's a great obligation, I hope you'll sit in that seat with women's wisdom and lead this House. What I want to say about the agenda point is that I understand the position, it's not easy to be here today and let this point off the agenda just have nothing to discuss. What kind of discussion we're going to have if it's a very high percentage of the probability that the action plan doesn't exist at all and that the matter of the kaja is ever made. It's going to be different for Dom if he knows about this fact, and it's going to be different if he knows he's going to be at the next session, here's what we're going to talk about, and then we're going to talk about the rest later. I don't think it's responsible enough and serious enough to discuss this subject only with the authority and leave it for another time. I'm asking you to put this proposal to the vote, which came from the SNSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7617	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7618	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And I won't have a discussion, it's basically a business intervention. In accordance with Article 167 of the 25.08., I submitted the subject to the Office – Resolution on the borders of BiH, the same as I see is not forwarded, nor included in the agenda. Article 167. The Rules of Procedure accurately define that the resolution is an act that goes directly to the first next session or can be submitted at the session itself. Since this has been happening to me for the fourth time, that what I submit to the Office of Parliamentary Affairs, and then onward and not to come into the parliamentary benches, I want a precise answer, which is why this is happening and why what I have handed over is not in the agenda in good time?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7619	Thank you. Are you done? Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7620	Thank you very much. 15 So I, like all my colleagues, want to talk about the agenda and, of course, the action plan and the precise measures and who is in charge of both deadlines and reporting, but I think the time has yet to come. If we looked, and I want to believe we've all looked at this, so I'm not defending the Council of Ministers, but this BiH reform agenda for the period 2015. – 2018 in point 2 is defined as establishing the main plans of all levels of government, as defined in point 1, and so are the Council of Ministers and Governments of the Federation and Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government of ten cantons and the Government of the Brcko District. All those on the agenda and on the karaj end whether we are informed and it says that the consensus was adopted, they agree with this, they adopt and have their responsibilities in implementing the agenda, a series of measures are in the jurisdiction not only of the Council of Ministers, not only of the state level, but of the entity and canton and Brcko District, and even of the local level of government, municipalities and cities, which, unfortunately, are not included here, not in that other sense as it has been said in the last days, but simply there are competences of the local level, they are founders of some institutions, here in the field of health, in primary health are found homes of health, homes of health. We're talking about reform, and we won't be able to do it without founders, without founders. Why am I saying this? Therefore, it is not possible to quickly and in a simple way to make a precise action plan and to do so only by the Council of Ministers and without other levels of executive authority. So I'm asking, what, that we got today, that we have a reform agenda, that we're considering it, that we tell everything about it what we think and we're looking for precise action plans with those who are responsible and competent to carry them out and of course they're reporting to us and... that we're discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7621	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7622	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, respected colleagues. I'm also going to say something about item four of the agenda, namely I don't think that conditions are created today to discuss this agenda point for a number of reasons. First of all, I haven't got the material for this agenda point yet, and I don't know if the other colleagues got it before this session, and I've been in touch with some of them, either, and they didn't get this agenda. Secondly, if and at what point does it need, the agenda, to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, then it should be on this one. Given that there are legitimate reasons why man is not here today, I believe that a point should be removed from the agenda, a team before it is personally not clear to me and you would ask the answer – What does it mean to consider a coherent reform, so what is the goal of putting this item on the agenda, are we considering it, and are we taking it into account or considering it, and we are considering it, and we are not doing anything with it, we are getting acquainted with it? Since in no part of it, of course, we can't accept anything in this agenda, because it is consistent and of course that touching its contents would open up a whole other kind of process. So the concept of a coherent reform is, in my opinion, giving a completely different picture of the possible debate on this document. From all of this, I think it would be a good idea not to have a debate today on item 4 of the agenda, but to leave it for the next session, I don't think it's something that can't be left to bear in mind that it's still in line in the seventh month, that at all levels this thing is over and that we can simply consider it at the next session of the agenda. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7623	Thank you. At this point I don't see any more friends to discuss the agenda. Thank you, everyone who participated in this debate. After all we have heard we have a number of proposals, according to the order of the proposal, we have a proposal to transform the point of the 4th Representative, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, which would read as follows: Point 4 of the agenda – Considering a harmonised reform agenda in connection with the European route through Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're making a proposal from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil to vote. Vote now. 24 for, against 5, abstentions 6, Federation 20, MPs of RS 4. So we don't have enough entity majority. We're going to a match, at this point we don't have colleagues, we don't have a chance to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7624	We'll take a five-minute break to call it just...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7625	Here's a five-minute break to consult on the compliance. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7628	Your Honor, ma'am, there's no vote on that, Article 167. The Rules of Procedure accurately define that it is put directly on the agenda and there is no vote. I have instructed and I don't understand why the College has the right to interpret what is a business provision in its own way. The Rules of Procedure therefore accurately say that it goes into the agenda and from where law goes, so it goes into the agenda and you were obliged to forward it to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7629	Thank you very much. Of course, we told you, and you know well as a representative that the Kolega determine the agenda, so if you want to stay with the proposal, your proposal to put the item in the agenda and we will plead here at this session, and the Kolega in the extended composition have set the agenda and you know that we do not vote on the draft agenda, but only on the additions and amendments to the agenda. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7630	Obviously, we don't understand each other, Article 167 doesn't give the width to vote on whether it goes or doesn't go to the agenda. Are we going to break what is the rule of our work? The rule of our work is what is said – home can, etc. The MP may submit a proposal.... which is discussed at the House session even there is no debate whether it is going or not on the agenda. I've filed it on the 25th and she's going into the agenda, it's the same as your conclusion, the girlship, the recommendation, it's the same thing. Therefore, I have submitted in due time and it goes to this agenda, to today's sessions, because it is so defined by what is the category that is the legal Rules of Procedure for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7631	Thank you very much. 18 I will once again conclude, today none of us individually decides here, today we all decide, so far the Kolega have decided and in accordance with Article 167, what you said is that the initiative is at the next session, the MP can submit a motion for a resolution under consideration at the House session, here in the Rules of Procedure is not said to be at the next session. Please, the Kolega have decided to be at the next session and I ask you – do you suggest that today be the item of the agenda, do you suggest or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7632	Let me say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7634	Again, the MP can submit a motion for a resolution under consideration at the House session, so at the session itself, and I filed it and here it is that I have submitted it. So I insist that she be at today's session, because I filed it in due time and she is attending today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7635	Thank you very much. I understood, I hope we all, that it would be, at this point I am making a proposal for Mr Zaim Backović to put the resolution as the subject reads – the resolution on the borders of BiH on today's agenda. Let's vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7636	There's no voting on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7637	I do, I put it to a vote because this is a proposal for an addition at the session itself. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7638	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7639	You've exhausted all your replicas at this point in this agenda point, you've already done business. I have put to the vote, please state who is in favour of putting this resolution on the agenda – BiH Borders Resolution, today's session of the House of Representatives? For 6 is 15 against, he was retained 1, representatives from Federation 6, from the RS. This proposal has not been passed and this item is not on the agenda today. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7640	He's asking for a repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7641	You're asking for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7642	Business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7644	... I would really like to make it easier for you, this Article 71(1). The Rules of Procedure say the MP may request amendments and additions to the agenda. If Mr. Backović really wants this, he is obliged to deliver material in writing. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7645	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7646	We don't have any material in writing, I don't think there are any conditions to vote on Mr. Backović's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7647	Thank you very much. I understand and thank you for, I tried to say it in the original answer, but the MP was persistent twice and I realized, I wanted you, I can't make the decision and I don't want to make the decision, I want us to make the decision here because this is a decision and it's being made here, and it's about how we plead rather than voting. So here you go, and I appreciate this that we do not have the material because we did not even put it on the agenda, this is a serious issue regarding the subject – the resolution on the borders of BiH, this is a question that would require some lengthy debate, the nature of certain initiatives, regardless of what the Rules of Procedure does not ask and therefore it was our proposal not to have it at today's session. Here I once again say that with respect to what you just said, we didn't put this on today's agenda session. I agree, the motion was for a re-election. Let's vote again. Vote now. For seven against 17, abstention eight, there's no general majority. I find that the proposal has not received the required majority in the re-election round. 20 I conclude that the 16th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15 of 02.07.2015. (first reading); 4. Consideration of a harmonised reform agenda in connection with the European route to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material; 5. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue 01,02-50-14-995/15 of 14.07.2015; 6. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2014, issue: 05/8-04-562/15 of 14.04.2015, with the Opinion of the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, issue 05/8-04-562/15 of 28.07.2015; Please consult the representatives for order. Seven. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014, the BiH Ministry of Security material, number: 01-04-1016/15 since 20.07.2015; 8. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 13th session of the House, held on 10.06.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative to include within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative in the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a point titled: Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the special parallel relations between the Bosnian Serb and the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina." Act No: 01-50-1-787/15 of 10.06.2015; 9. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which was submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held on 30.06.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the House College with establishing and establishing the agenda of each regular session to establish a mandatory item of the agenda with the title: Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path. I propose that the colleagues of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a part of the agenda of the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives.’, issue: 01-50-1-853/15 of 30.06.2015; 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1007/15 of 27.07.2015; 11. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for conducting the procedure of selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1051/15 of 23.07.2015; 12. Selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1050/15 of 23.07.2015; 21 13. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer: Representative Hanka Vajzović, issue: 01-50-1-840-2/15 of 10.07.2015; 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on the realisation of the grant of assistance from the Government of Japan to the purchase of new generation vehicles, issue: 01,02-05-2-866/15 of 01.07.2015; 15. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on the implementation of a grant of assistance from the Government of Japan and Herzegovina for 2014, issue: 01,02-05-2-867/15 of 01.07.2015; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank in connection with the BiH Regional Housing Programme 2 (2013).) number: 01,02-05-2-1074/15 since 28.07.2015. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? Thank you very much. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7650	I thank the chairman. As you have stated, I have received from the past to this session answers to four asked parliamentary questions, I would like to stress that in all four cases the deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure have been significantly broken, so I would really appeal to my Kolega to ask the Council of Ministers to take the deadlines of 30 days more seriously for the delivery of answers to the questions asked. As regards the three parliamentary questions I have asked, I declare that I am not satisfied with the answer, and I will ask an additional parliamentary question in writing in accordance with the same article, as regards the three parliamentary questions I have asked, in accordance with Article 175(4) of the Council of Ministers, or the Office of Agents before the European Court of Justice and two of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As for the fourth, it was actually an answer to the additional parliamentary question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I am also not satisfied with the answer, but I am not sure whether the Rules of Procedure allow an additional question to the additional issue. However, I am taking this opportunity to point out that I have already asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs three times for an answer to a very simple question, which is – Did they conduct any talks or negotiations with the authorities of Australia on the proposed social insurance agreement between March 2013 and June 2015? Are they persistently refusing to give me an answer yes or no, on this basis I conclude that the answer is no, but that someone insists on explaining why the answer is no, uh, two years ago, and that is why 50,000 of our citizens in Australia are still waiting for this agreement whose opening negotiations, i.e. accepting negotiations from the start of negotiations by the Australian government, can I say, I came out three years ago, so it is incomprehensible to me that the Ministry of Civil Affairs has not done anything about it for two years, when I ask them to or not, refuse to give that answer, even if it was or not at least say that you were wrong. And I am finally also taking this opportunity, uh, to remind you that Mr. Isaković and I, in line with Article 175, had been asked five months ago by the MP's question to the Office of the High Representative, however, that we still haven't received an answer to that question. I suppose the Office of the High Representative doesn't want to answer the question, the Office of the High Representative has immunity, so it's not at all, it wouldn't be polite to ask this House to try to come up with answers, and then I think we're going to be looking for 23 removals from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, why at all allow us to ask the Office of the High Representative if we can't find an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7651	... Kapetanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7652	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In the last session, I referred the question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I thank the Ministry for the response you sent, but I am not able to comment today on this answer for a simple reason because I have been given a large answer to 130 pages on entering this room, so just before the beginning of the session, so I will plead at the next session on the answer to my parliamentary question. I'll just point out that I'm the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that I've asked two more questions of which I especially answer, I insist on one answer, and it's about the adoption of a personal identification number law. If you have so far answered this question, my parliamentary question, and by mistake, the answer in the materials has not arrived, which is possible in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I only ask to be provided with a written reply and thank you for a comprehensive report which I will comment on next time. Thank you, and I wish you much happiness in your work as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7653	Chairman of the House, Mrs. Krišto has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7654	Thank you very much. When I asked all the prosecutions, of course police administrations, or the interior ministries, and the question was – How many people were covered by investigations into the destruction of property in the Federation during the social rebellion, political demonstrations, or what did we call events that followed in different cities on February 6th and 7th last year? I can say that I have received certain answers from certain prosecutions, such as Sarajevo and Mostar, which suggest that certain persons are being investigated for criminal offences, I don't know about arson and damage to other people's affairs, violent behavior, assaulting an authorized official, etc. and some kind of statistical numbers. And clearly from these answers stands out, let's say even the chief of the sector, the chief police inspector of the Herzegovsko-Neretva police department, wrote – that after the transmission of these reports to the competent prosecutor's office we are not absolutely familiar with the status of the case, or whether or not the prosecutions have been brought up at all and whether the proceedings for the above-mentioned crimes are being conducted. Here's what I'm trying to say, simply where the general judiciary is in a broader sense of the word, in a special way, the prosecution. Especially since it's been a year and a half since these events that we don't have, that neither procedure is under way, nor is it over, and we know what happened. What's this for? This is a clear message that everything that is wanted here in BiH can be done, so eventually, to burn buildings and commit violent acts, that the institutions of the judiciary are not what they should be, are not independent, are not impartial, are not dependent on the Constitution, law and morality, and that is what is necessary for all of us, as well as BiH. Here I have only commented on this answer, but from these 24 answers there will be further questions to certain institutions, as well as findings and suggestions to this House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7655	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7656	Thank you. I have to say that some questions I didn't get an answer to, I'd take the opportunity to call, that's on my question that I asked 25.06. Parliament, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, and this is about the number of cars, but the particular focus was the way these cars are used, to use unlimited 24 hours, and even opportunities that are not official, we had the opportunity to hear that being used and how these cars are seen in front of cafes and restaurants. And of course I got a part of that answer, I got a response from Parliament, from the Council of Ministers, and from the Presidency I didn't get that answer, and in the meantime there was an incident where there was an injury to traffickers, you know probably all about it, that's not to mention those names. So with this question, I wanted to point out the problem of behaviour of escorts of officials and official vehicles on BiH roads, and I have not yet received an answer. But at the same time, I would use the pirique that when the minister of civil affairs is present here, to remind me of my initiative that in the third month, and it is about the financing of successful athletes and representatives of BiH, a question that is completely unsettled and I would not have opened that question now, but would ask the minister once more to pay attention to the initiative that I have submitted and to take advantage of the opportunity to adequately ask for the functioning of national teams, i.e. alliances as well as successful individuals. And speaking of which, I would take the opportunity to welcome the individual's latest successes, and I had that in mind when I proposed this initiative, as well as the representative selections that have done something that has so far been completely unimaginable in BiH. I am once again taking the opportunity to ask the minister to pay attention to this, because we read in the paper that there is good will both by the Minister and the BiH institutions to address this issue adequately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7657	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7658	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I have no comment on the answer I have received, but I point out one question about about a month ago, and it concerns cases of the victims of Hrvat returnees in Travnik, so the processes of the investigation and therefore the processing of these same events, so this time I'm using the opportunity to point out that I'm looking for that answer, if not then I'm going to have to see what I can do next if I don't get to the next session. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7659	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7660	Thank you. I also can't comment on the answer to the question raised because I haven't received an answer in over a month, I've asked questions, if you remember, about the number of ministerial advisors, the chairman, etc. I ask you to make an additional effort so that I can finally get that answer and possibly comment afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7661	Thank you. At this point, I no longer see the comments applied for, Mensura Beganović here, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7662	Thank you. I apologize for reporting so late, but I would like to thank the Ministry of Civil Affairs for its response to... research, with one note, that I hope that the Agency for Preschool, School and Secondary Education has planned to do the opinions from the cantonal ministries by the end of August of this year, not some other year, because the extension of the deadlines it has given us, which BiH has given to apply to this research, is likely to expire if this system continues to shift responsibility from one to another and waiting for them to decide the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, etc. I ask you to take this into account that we do not stay at the end of all events, regardless of the European readiness, or whether the European institutions that are monitoring this, which are leading this research, are not even moving away from this prolonged deadline in this kind of organisational and communication problems that are obviously present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7663	Thank you. At this point, I no longer see any comments on the answers received. Since there were comments on the unaccompanied answers, I would ask all MPs and we would send an emergency for, in a way, the delivery of answers from the requested institutions, the Council of Ministers means others who have asked these questions. Maybe on some of the questions, I think it was two or three, it already could, because they were already being asked longer, but I think those who didn't do this to us do some deliveries, so we're going to forward the emergency for and from these questions that we didn't get the answers. We've completed point 2. 26 So we're going to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-9/15 of 02.07.2015. (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 02.07.2015. The colleagues of the House were competent to consider the draft law by the Constitutional Commission, the Council of Ministers of BiH delivered the draft law on 18th08.2015, which corrected the observed technical shortcomings in accordance with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector. The Commission submitted its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles of 26.08.2015. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. Predrag Kožul MP, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7665	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else present, I welcome you today. Just one small intervention until the second reading, in Article 4 of these amendments and additions I suggest, i.e. I suggest that the Proposer add two words, so that is to say – if it is found to be a violation of indirect taxes. So, I'm adding the word "from the field" because this formulation here is imprecise and I think that adding the word "from the area of indirect taxes" far more corresponds to the spirit of the law, because within the segment of indirect taxes you cannot break indirect taxes, but rather to a number of other regulations within these areas. So if, I suggest to the Proposer, then these two words add up to the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7666	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7667	Thank you very much. Given that the first reading is and it is about the principles of the Law, I support the adoption of this Law in the sense that it will lead to the work of the Direct Taxation Authority being more effective and, of course, the courts that would eventually come in a position to judge by these offences, and also in the section concerning more effective payment of fines in the sense that if citizens pay, they agree to pay a fine within 8 days that it is 50% of the amount, as it is in entity regulations. But what I have in principle an objection, especially to the Council of Ministers, and in particular to the Minister and Deputy Minister of Justice, is a controversial principle introduced in the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Violations, where it is cited as a reason, i.e. as the principle of harmonisation of the state law with entity law. So, according to both the Constitution and the hierarchy, it is the opposite order of things and I am asking the Council of Ministers, and in particular the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Justice not to make such failures in the future. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7668	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7669	So, I just want to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or its competent ministry, has analysed the proposed version of the Law and has argued that there are no additional proposals, objections and suggestions and that the SNSD Club will support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7670	Thank you. Deputy, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7671	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think we should support this law, because it is obvious that both the reasons why the law is proposed by the Council of Ministers are justified. Here, therefore, I am particularly referring to the payment of fines and this intervention relating to the fact that it will be found that the fine is paid if half of it is voluntarily paid, of course, and all other costs are determined within a certain period. However, precisely with regard to this matter, so I will vote in favour of the Law in the first reading, I would ask the Council of Ministers to do a second reading together with the Indirect Taxation Department to review all the laws where the violations are prescribed and where certain fines have been threatened, it seems to me that we once knew here in the Parliamentary Assembly to pass laws, so especially under the influence of these other legal schools, where penalties were prescribed by measuring against the unlawful property benefit. I'd like to, therefore, especially if it were to be analysed so that it wouldn't happen to us that there's a fine prescribed for illegal property use, and then half of it is forgiven through punishment. I believe that we've cleaned it out of our legal system so far, that we have a special measure of confiscation of objects and benefits and special punishment, but that there's nothing left to happen so that the situation doesn't happen to us. This is just a precaution, I was talking about this on the Constitutional Commission, and I'm talking about it here, because the worst thing is when we do something, and we haven't looked at it until the end. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7672	Thank you. At this point, I don't see that I have any more logs on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. 28 We move to point four, Ad. 4. Discussing the agreed reform agenda in connection with the European route to Bosnia and Herzegovina, BiH Council material At the 14th session of the House, held on 30.06.2015, MP Nikola Špirić proposed the addition of the agenda to the point – the Harmonised Reform Agenda and the Action Plan in connection with the European route to BiH. When voting on this proposal, there was no need for an entity majority, and it was sent to the House College for subsequent consent. The colleagues did not reach agreement, and the proposal to supplement the agenda was adopted in the second round of voting at the 15th session of the House, held on 22.07.2015. Following the meeting, the House Chairman sent a request to the Council of Ministers for the delivery of material to be the basis for the debate under this item of the agenda. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered a 2015 reform agenda to BiH on 05/08/2015. - The 2018 material you got. I am opening the debate, I have already noted in the draft agenda, as we have after, so when we adopt the agenda, we have redesigned this point again in a way that reads – Considering a harmonised reform agenda in connection with the European path of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Representative Mirsad Mešić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7674	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, the BiH reform agenda has become an official document of BiH and without the participation of this Parliament, how well we will see it in the future. But today it is in our disposition, today it is, of course, the platform for the talks held in Vienna in the framework of a meeting on the Western Balkans and the EU. So, today, at our disposition, it is only possible for us to accept or acknowledge this reform agenda that we are in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan within 30 days and I have also proposed this conclusion in writing, on the European path of BiH and, of course, inform this House of Representatives. I also think it is very important for the effectiveness of monitoring the BiH reform path agenda to establish the Council of Ministers' obligation to report every 30 days, so I am apostropheming the report as a document, which will inform this House of the achieved level of implementation of the BiH reform agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7675	Thank you, counsel. A representative of Senad Šepić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7676	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So, I won't spend much of the words around the very essence of this agenda, it's like here said and colleagues earlier, it's a thing that's already agreed, it's passed a certain procedure 29 and today I think that the way it was done, by me was wrong, we could all get involved much better, we could have achieved a lot more in this whole business, but now it's over. What I want to say today, so this is a political framework, or framework for BiH's political action on the European path, and these six areas are in some way the things we know in BiH are the biggest problem. What is particularly important here and what is indicated in this document that we have ahead of us, so the implementation will begin immediately, without delay. All those who have said that it is unserious that there is no clear action plan for the implementation of this reform agenda are right. So how you're going to start doing something right now and start implementing it without delay unless you have a clearly defined plan, a road map, an action plan to do it. In two months ago, here at Parliament's Assembly, I submitted one of the initiatives, and here today it is spoken of in a certain way by other colleagues, and it implies that at each session of Parliament we have mandatory information about the progress achieved on the European pathway. This may be information that, in its form, may not be particularly binding on institutions to react, but that we, as Parliament, need to have information about how far we have come when it comes to the European path, I don't think there should be a dilemma about it. I will especially speak when this initiative comes in line because, as a man, I have remained shocked that the Commission for the European Integration of BiH, that is, the main engine to be advocated, which should potential this story around the European agenda and the general European path of BiH, even one modified my proposal, if we can't have it at every session, can we at least quarterlyly have people sitting in the commission, let's say those who vote against it. You see, one MP, here I as an MP have the right to place every session of all of us here burdened, standing up here asking me to be delivered, as it is called, that information, instead of doing it institutionally and in some way creating a framework in which we will make responsible institutions, individuals, in which we will be able to clearly distinguish who is the one who truly advocates and fights for the European path, and who are the ones who, as I said the other day, keep the figs in their pockets, talk about the European path and everything seems like that European path doesn't happen. If this Parliament does not know what is its responsibility here and does not take into its own hands what is its right, then we are sure that the executive power will not do so. So here I am going to go back to that initiative that I was just talking about, but also the floor, in the debate on this agenda point, so all of us are invited to make ourselves to the end of it serious and responsible and to make these people who have an obligation to carry out these duties, and if they are not able to do so, then think that in these places we will have responsible, serious and capable people who are going to have this European story, and it is the most important for BiH, able to manage it with credibility in the next period. So, according to this point on the agenda, I'm going to suggest two conclusions, one conclusion and one initiative. The conclusion, therefore, is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers to establish and deliver a clear action plan of action with commitments, deadlines and responsible institutions for 2015. If I cannot work this out, as the 2015-2018 reform agenda is, then within the next 15 days or until the next session, a clear action plan with deadlines and responsible institutions for 2015. That's one conclusion. 30 And the other thing that concerns, I would say, the even greater seriousness of this process by Parliament, is that at the next session of Parliament, we have a mandatory agenda point in which, it is a parliamentary initiative, which says that the BiH House of Representatives obliges the College to prepare and establish the agenda, and for the longest time every 60 days, establish a mandatory item of the agenda with the title – Report on the realisation of BiH's commitments on the European path and the level of meeting BiH's commitments under the BiH Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2015-2018 Reform Agenda. What does this mean? This means that when we make an action plan, that we will be responsible people, I would ask the Vice-President and Secretary-General to follow this a little bit, so that the responsible institutions chairing the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, all the institutions hire us, and that this is the mandatory point of Parliament's agenda, within 60 days, we have the Chair of the Council of Ministers, all the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for European Integration, whoever they empower in that sense, to directly respond to what they are during that period, so within 60 days, we have concretely made that action plan real. We're going to make an action plan where we're going to have, say, for a whole year, but every 60 days we need to talk directly about what we've been doing in those 60 days, so in one sixth of that period, we've made that action plan come to an end. If this Parliament, I repeat, does not understand its responsibility in this sense and I am not optimistic that people in the Council of Ministers, wherever they come from, will accept it until the end. Because if we are in a position, so now that we have a full mouth to tell stories about the European path and the European perspective of BiH, and we see that we have no action plan, and we have no clear path maps, how we're going to do it, then I'm afraid there are a lot of people there, I'd say stories that served just to get some funding from international institutions, and the real reform that BiH needs is not happening. If we are here to do our job properly and to force these institutions to show responsibility, then I am optimistic that it can be triggered. If we don't do this, I'm not sure they'll understand how serious this is and how much it takes to deal with this issue in a credible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7677	Thank you, counsel. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7678	Thank you, Chairman. You see, I will support all the activities needed to speed BiH's path towards the EU, of course in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional competences. What makes me say that? Because, to reach a conclusion today that is binding on the Council of Ministers, whether until the next session or in the next 30 days, to deliver an action plan, is not realistic. We all see that the reform agenda has been agreed between different levels of government, so from canton to government of the BiH state, and in this sense this agenda has been created here. It is not possible for the Council of Ministers without, now these levels that took part in the agenda to come up with an action plan. That is why I will not support Mr Mešić's conclusion in the first part of the obligation to submit an action plan within 30 days, and if he would separate it into two conclusions, of course the second conclusion I will support that the Parliamentary Assembly, Representative 31st House, is regularly informed, means every session, about the course of the European path of BiH. When it comes to the action plan, I think it takes more time for the Council of Ministers, together with the governments of entities and canton, to come to an action plan, because if it could have been easy for us to have a reform agenda already at this session and action plan. Obviously, this is a more serious problem for the Council of Ministers, and that is why the Council of Ministers should not be placed in a position to conclude in 30 days that he has not done something that we have concluded here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7679	Thank you. Here's the replica, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7680	Short replica. We're not gonna, probably not even this is gonna be the first conclusion we adopted and we didn't get it in time for an answer, but I think we should really start to get serious, feel responsible. In this reform agenda itself, when we take it into knowledge today, we will not change it or have the opportunity to work in this sense now, so it says that the implementation of the reform agenda will begin immediately without delay, so the moment it is adopted. Those who prepared this had already some first steps of the action plan to do. In that sense, I think we can get that first, as it's called, initial information at least for September, at least for October, at least what they're doing right now. So I'm really not in favour of anyone right now, in some way, freeing him from some responsibility, working in that sense, and if he doesn't deliver that information until the next session, I repeat, it won't be the first time we haven't gotten what we asked of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7681	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7682	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, of course, I don't want to diminish the importance of a document like this no matter how he's initiated and how he's adopted. It is clear that it was initiated by the International Community, it is also seen by the text and way of writing this document, and it is clear that there have been adjustments in the process of alignment in the document, and this is also accurate on which parts of the document have been harmonised. However, and of course I would be pleased if this country would improve the political situation, the business situation and every other aspect of life that would ultimately lead to the improvement of the lives of all people in BiH. But what worries me is the unpreparedness of the current political structure at all levels in BiH, given that the government has not been established and that the government does not function adequately, as well as taking into account all that has preceded it in the past 20 years, as regards political activity and the involvement of political entities in BiH authorities. Or, if we consider, here's just last night's statement that we had the opportunity to see and hear, that BiH is at least 9 years late, 9 years late compared to countries from the Western Balkans, which are on their way to the EU. How do we get to those nine years? It has been missed for 9 years and I don't see that the current 32 political structures in BiH give any chance of optimism and belief that such a really demanding document, which will ultimately result in very difficult decisions, implement and create assumptions as stated in one such document. So, of course, I welcome this document, but I don't believe or express my doubts, or here we are even better perhaps not to be too rough, worried that those who have brought BiH into a difficult situation can make BiH out of a situation without dramatic changes in the behaviour of each individual, of course, and then all political structures at all levels in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7683	Thank you. Representative Safer Demirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7684	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Of course, I'm glad that here we have the opportunity to talk a little bit about the reform agenda in view of all the attention it's caused and the way it's brought along with, here I agree, certain pressures from the outside. I've carefully read this reform agenda and what's a little bit strange to me is that there's nothing spectacular here, these are things that we, at least I believe most of my colleagues, 90 percent promised to our voters, even some things to me, I'm surprised that we have to make a commitment that, on page 3 says, we're going to speed up the construction process and the electrical energy connection. I mean, these are some things that nature needs to go on. As an MP in this House, since I won't be here long since a lot of debaters have applied, I will do anything to help this House fulfill those obligations it has made to this agenda, which concerns this House. And I agree with my colleagues that without proper implementation of these obligations, dynamics and monitoring of these dynamics, this will actually remain only one of our obligations in the series so far unfulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7685	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7686	Thank you very much to the President, colleagues and colleagues. When we didn't have a reform agenda, what, come on, where, why didn't we get it, when we get it then let's say some would take off or even won't argue, they won't participate, they have a lot of work to do, but of course I understand it all as well as other colleagues and colleagues. I want to look back at a few things, of course I will also take care of the time and the number of registered colleagues and colleagues who want to make a contribution to this document. I would also like to say in the course of the debate on the establishment of the agenda, and in the debate itself, that I am joining all those colleagues who insist that we have a precise document, whatever it is called, 33 Action Plan, where it will write exactly who is responsible, who are the deadlines, who should be reported, including the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of these objectives. I am sure that we will all be happy that most, let alone all of these goals, are being implemented and that we will be as close as possible on our way to the EU. Of course, on the very first page, it says that this document, as they have defined, is all levels of government, by their definition, excluding local self-government. So if this is the summation of the main plans of all levels of government by means of both state and entity and canton and Brcko District, then it is logical and results in that action plan that we are so attached to, it is actually the Action Plan and the Government of the Brcko District and the government of 10 cantons, and the government of 2 entities and the Council of Ministers. We cannot only ask the Council of Ministers to make an action plan, but the action plan must actually be a collection of these 14 action plans in terms of constitutional composition and constitutional competences in BiH. Because if the Council of Ministers tried to do something out of someone else's jurisdiction, so a lot of colleagues and colleagues would report here and say they can't, it's not out of jurisdiction, it's from the entity, it's from the canton, it's from the jurisdiction of the Brcko District or it's from the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities as levels of local authorities. So I will join at the end of the conclusion that most spoke, here and my colleague Šepić, only expanded in this way, that I expect an action plan as a set of action plans for all competent levels of government in line with the constitutional composition of BiH that we need to come for the next or one of the next sessions. And of course I support this regular report on the fulfillment of all these plans from this agenda. What I want to do a little bit of trouble in a way that maybe I don't understand or maybe it's not well described here and said, maybe they're right, maybe they have answers, one of these objectives in the area of public finances is that they want to achieve in the field of public financing of taxation and fiscal sustainability that the budgets will be established and maintained on a firm medium-term basis agreed with the IMF in an arrangement that will follow the current stand-by arrangement and therefore talk about reducing public debt in BiH. I don't get it. In fact, some time ago, we received data on the state of responsibility in BiH and external and internal debt and then as a goal, we say that we will go in the downward path of public debt in BiH, and then it is said that after a stand by arrangement there will be new negotiations with the World Bank, the IMF and the EU. I don't get it, does that mean new borrowing? What do these negotiations mean? How are we going to get to the downward path of public duty? It's about budgets, they're adopted, they're implemented this year, they're what they are, we can possibly talk about budgets in the next and next years. And in the following measures, when it comes to labour legislation and reforms in the field of social policy and social rights, especially in the area of health, it is said that the moves that will be made, and then it is later said that they will go back to borrowing cantons, entities to settle accumulated debts, which is contrary to points 3 and 6 of the reform agenda. Because if the aim is to reduce public debt, there is no way to tell the entities and cantons will take new loans and be in debt. Those two targets are a standoff. In the working legislation, they speak of a reduction in contributions. Okay. that's a good thing, it's also wanted by employers and investors internationally, it's long spoken of, but the proposal for measures is just a reduction of health contributions. There are other contributions in the burden of pay and they do not touch for retirement, in case of unemployment, for solidarity. The solution was seen only for labour legislation or reduction of salary contributions by reducing contributions to health care. But then from the measures they're talking about health reform, I'm not convinced that they're going to save health care, because yes, we have a problem with the burden of contributions, but we also have problems in health care that are convulsing in debt. Why is it so now that it's another 34 topics, that we don't open it. But this way, as provided for on pages 2 and 3 I'm not sure what they're going to do, especially what they're saying again, the World Bank's engagement, financial, technical assistance, borrowing. The only measure I have read here is that the parallel authorities in BiH will support an increase in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol that will be the direct income of the RS Health Insurance Fund and health insurance funds in BiH and cantons and Brcko District by the end of 2015. Bog, and if this is how we would then have to have legislative proposals at the next session that will lead to, whether, to this increase in excise duties and their orientation precisely in health insurance funds, what is missing in health insurance reform, which is certainly going to be an obstacle to future reforms, however it may be, is the engagement and consultation with the founders of health homes, and these are local levels of government, municipalities, they are the founders of health homes, and they provide primary health care and are spent in them, according to my information, certainly more than half of the health money, which through funding of health homes, which through funding essential lists of medicines that are prescribed in the homes of health. Neither cantons nor entities can reform because directors, directors and whole or parts of the boards of directors and municipal councils are appointed. And unless they are involved in this process, there is no resolution of reforms in the health sector. I'm not sure that helping or reforming labour legislation in a way or investors, investors and employers, by reducing contributions to health care, I am, therefore, also for this reform to reduce contributions, they are big somewhere like 72%, but I'm not for doing it in a way that collapses one other very important segment. These are some small notes, I would like to cross these data with the Council of Ministers as well as other levels of executive power, and I hope, in the end, that, if we adopt a conclusion, we will oblige them to make these action plans and to keep us regularly informed of the measures taken and implemented, we hope that we will succeed and do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7687	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7688	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, it is the turn as president of the Joint Committee on European Integration to speak on this subject, and perhaps at this next point there, the 5th, which is Mr. Šepić. And I can only say the following, so I hope that this will be a topic or topic on which we will have a high degree of consent when it comes to resolving issues from the agenda and all other issues related to this concept of European integration or the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, I also, I don't know maybe Mr. Šepić or whoever already said maybe Mr. Novaković, that it's a shame that Parliament may not have taken a greater part in making this agenda, but I don't think it's irreparable, it's important that we have it, so I don't think that the agenda is some kind of a document that we can't pass through time and as Parliament and Council of Ministers or anyone thinks it, any content, add rhythm. And I think that if we really define ourselves as I said at the beginning that 35 of this topic that we're all going to be dedicated to, we're going to have a lot of work to do and we're not even going to get what we need, not just from the agenda, but what follows us around in implementing this question. Namely, I will also say that the Joint Committee, so 6 of this House and 6 of the House of Nations, did not wait at all for the Council of Ministers to bring the agenda, we have potentiald and put ourselves at 2 sessions, at our 6 sessions so far held, this topic was asked by Mr Zvizdić and others to give us both the agenda and the coordination mechanism and all the questions that concern this matter, and they were not representatives of this matter. So, we've been keeping an account of it, but that question didn't go to the House session here to this day, not our fault, because at one session we didn't have a finished agenda, at a session of the previous, so the 5th of this commission, we had an agenda Mr. Zvizdić, on our call, explained on behalf of the Council of Ministers, and we were satisfied with that. There are colleagues here in the hall who are members and members of that commission and we were pleased with that moment. We're not in official form, we had this 6th session yesterday in front of this House, so we got this agenda so that we're reading about it so we couldn't even read each other, but here's what I'm talking about. So, of course something can be thrown out here and added, and I think that we have time to involve ourselves as Parliamentarians, and at every session, by any kind of statement as we propose today, make this agenda more complete and more content. So we talked about this agenda at the Committee, we took a positive stance, and here I said our thinking about it. Namely, we as the Committee have become more involved in this story and some of it will come to you here in the House to consult, to your fellow Members, and some of what we have planned will come to the College and we hope first of all that our Committee and then those who are in the executive bodies of the authorities will have support on that path. Namely, it will come to you or to the College and this topic of strengthening the work of the Secretariat of this Committee, which, if we define ourselves as I said at the beginning of my discussion that we are closely following this, will not be able to serve us either this Committee or the representatives with what awaits us all. The topic will come before you and we will see whether we will form a specific sector for European integration with any kind of engagement whether by reorganising the current sectors or by forming a new one, because we also think that with two professionals working for this Committee, we will not be able to reach our obligations and we will not be able to be able to be serviced to this Committee either, and then you will not be able to do so in any way, so I hope that this topic will interest you and that you will have a positive relationship with it. So when it comes to this, maybe I'll touch the next point, which is, points, one of today's agenda points, Mr. Šepić's proposal was at the session yesterday, and I'll see how my colleague is going to rephrase it now. We have considered his initiative to report to this Parliament, in fact he has said to inform each regular session. It seemed to us at the Committee that this was too much to do at the moment, since we are only entering the implementation of the SAA there is not enough material for each regular session to have such a kind of point, but we suggested that it be quarterly, so three months to start and in 2016 we would consider strengthening that rhythm and therefore it was about information. Then at the meeting itself, the Committee went into debate whether it was a report, if the report is then we must have some plans to report on, so yesterday we did not give a positive opinion in the final, that you have here in the materials, about Mr. Šepić's initiative. That's why I reacted to the agenda the way I reacted, so most of the people who discussed it didn't support it anymore to get that kind of information, though. 36 It seems to us that we need to keep in mind that this great demand and the suggestion of conclusions to report us, we are not involved alone in this. I will remind you that we have our conclusions that we have confirmed from earlier homes, that in the annual reports there are special reports on European integration. So, that's... that's the conclusion, and I hope that when the annual reporting of all the institutions of government towards us is, so we will have a special report as if we have the Ministry of European Integration that will inform us of the state of European integration under the obligations of the SAA or in general, so on annual reporting. We will also see this proposal on informing Mr. Šepić how it will go, so we have a agenda point, and we as the Committee will, and that way you will hopefully be, if the College decides and learns what we are doing. In fact, we have foreseen to initiate a procedure that has previously been convened in the previous term, the maintenance of the forum, the parliamentary forum for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, at least quarterly, which will not oblige anyone but we will seek that the entity committees and the county assemblies are in the process of happening around the SAA, so every 3 months that we have cooperation and exchange of information with each other and that, on the basis of our commitment at these meetings, we go to the places where we operate, so that we support this process and we will do so. There was a proposal yesterday and at the Committee, I'm just trying to convince you I'm not going to, first I'm going to try to fit into this time, and I'm not going to do much for you, I hope that I'm going to stop in these 10 minutes, so we're going to go to the variant that we're going to go to one thematic session, so I said in that previous presentation on the agenda, that with 67, it seems to me that we have an institution of state as a committee meeting and that we agree with them to exchange information that they're doing at that point, that it's everyday. The proposal did not go through yesterday at the Committee but was not completely removed from the agenda, we will wait for the first session of the Committee, the Parliamentary Committee that is scheduled for the SAA, so with the European Parliamentarians that will take place at the 11th month, after which we will see if we can hold that session with all the representatives of our bodies of the authorities with which we will agree on how to proceed. We also launched an idea on holding round tables that will mainly be thematic and we have this support from the European Commission and the OSCE that will follow us, and it would be maintained, for example in two months, one round table across the entire BiH area that we as the Committee would organise and there would be a transport and some institutions, depending on which topic we put on the round table, we would not repeat ourselves. So, this is part of what we do in the SAA, which is to promote, therefore, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we as Parliament, and on the trail of the tendencies of the European Parliament and our colleagues who will be with us together in the Committee, you have this point today on the appointment of this Committee, so our proposal is that the presence of parliamentarians and legislative bodies in implementing the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is stronger. So, this agenda today, I don't know here I really know what Mr. Novaković or someone said, I don't know what our goal is today, it's good that she came anyway, it doesn't make sense that parliamentarians don't know anything about the agenda and some other things, and we're going to insist as the Committee to deliver to us, if we don't make a decision depending on the Rules of Procedure and on the Law and what we do, so in the end I can tell you that we as the Committee will be very active and I think that we are already active and that we have, we have already held six sessions, we have one positive opinion from those who see what we are doing, like the European Commission, the OSS and other associations of the international and non-governmental sectors, that something we do so far is 37 good. Of course, it's not perfect until the end, and we just had a business opportunity to act and work of the Commission for European Integrations yesterday, so we wanted to profile our work, and here's some of it I've told you, some of it will probably come before you, but most of it will come before the College and we expect support first of all from the College and you, so that we're being monitored as much as we have the strength to get involved in this, and I've seen from a colleague from the Committee that we're willing to discuss and so far we're, I mean constructively, there's a fellow in the hall who were at the meeting yesterday, that we've managed to make this work effective, and I hope that we'll be even better and more appropriate and we'll make our full contribution, so we're going to implement the agenda and all the other obligations that we have been in front of the SAA. I thank you and here I am sorry for the first time I've been up to 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7689	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7690	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since I'm at a session where a flagrant member of 70s, 71st and 167th, I'm going to discuss all the points of the agenda and vote against everyone. But a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, given that the secretary is here, it is fair that he read Article 70, not 71, which was read by the SBB gentleman, because he doesn't even refer to what I was talking about. Now let's get to the agenda. We have before us a review, and here we are saying that we are considering a coherent reform agenda and action plan. I would suggest to the persons who are directly responsible for making and implementing that everything we do today and everything we do at all the next sessions and everything that will do, as my colleague Lovrinović says, commissions, commissions, committees, working bodies, ad.hocc commissions, etc., in the function of achieving the agenda. However, the mix of jurisdiction and the lack of understanding that this kind of division of competence, regardless of internal arrangements, regionalisation, local self-government, Europe does not know in its legislation. We will have a situation in which we will have to make an identical legal solution even five times. That means we at the state level, entities at entity level, cantons at canton level, Brcko District at Brcko District level, and they'll all have to be from letter to letter. We need to find a solution that will simplify the path and make it faster. In this agenda, we should also have an analysis of something that is exactly what I'm talking about, how to get to a faster, simpler, rational, ultimately cheaper solution. Because all of what we do, given the levels, are very expensive at the start of a solution. In addition, this House, this Parliament would also have to have, gentlemen, from what you call a body run by this Parliament, precisely stated what, when this Parliament must do. We can't get that from the Council of Ministers. We're an employer to the Council of Ministers. This House is an employer to you gentlemen. You are not an employer to Parliament. This is the largest body in this country. Of everything we've done so far, of course we have Einstein, we have those who are on 12 committees and committees and subcommittees, in 12, I'm talking about where I am, we've met four times in total. That's our work. We need to find a way that, in the overall process of approaching and joining the EU, we, like those who are going to have to raise hands tomorrow, adopt, responsible for the processes, responsible for the speed of adoption, responsible for the coordination, responsible for finding the way, for simplifying, for adopting what is necessary for us to come and join the EU. The final example is clear, milk exporters. All 38 have been done, all the Ministry has done, but one of them, one through 26, stops the whole process. We didn't see that coming. If we had predicted we might have some steps in advance prepared for those who sent trucks to the border and now they don't know what to do with it. Does anyone here know if anyone's got any information on how many lifts from Livna are on the border? As far as I know, no one knows, and no one got the information. We still have to be more responsible for this country. Because it's not all sacred. Through this paper I was forced to read the laws and then I found that what we are told must be harmonised, I analyzed 6 countries of those who joined the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia and two who were founders of France and the Federal Republic of Germany. So you can see how different these laws are based on, and we need to bring them in the form of the EU. What does that match from these six that I analyzed when they're significantly different? And here I am now saying, here I am speaking publicly, the same legal solution for the same law I'm going to give it in 6 forms, I've given it to me and I'm just going to write instead of where the Federal Republic of Germany and BiH write, instead of where the Czech Republic is going to write BiH, the art of the Republic of Slovakia is going to be BiH, and each of these is acceptable to the EU. We must seek our way, men. We have to look and I suggest that the Council of Ministers listen to what people say about these benches. There aren't people here who don't know how to work, there's people who've been through life and have a huge experience. Since you're looking at me, Professor, I apologize, I'll tell you from your area of law. One of these laws is from your area and they are even opposed to one another, it is made up of social character, it is a component of the scope of protection,... rights, totally conflicted in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Croatia, Slovenia, Germany and France. Totally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7691	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7692	So, I'm really sorry that we haven't survived, or we haven't been able to talk about this after that when we have a complete matter in front of us, because here's the discussion to show that this will benefit us, what we're discussing now, that it will benefit us a little bit to apologize for, and that we won't make the right decision, nor will we have anything to move from place to place. In addition to that, I would like to say that if I want to closely observe this 2015 reform agenda alone. – 2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7693	Please, without comment, have consideration and be professionally ethical.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7694	to make sense that such an agenda was first adopted by entity and canton governments. I was just going out to check some things out and I saw that the RS government adopted this reform agenda at a July 23rd session. We know who was involved in her design, but we don't know this part about the action plan, and I wanted to check it out, because without it all the stories on this topic are unnecessary. Here is today, at this moment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which on the agenda has a draft action plan on BiH's next path towards the EU, so without this 39 document, we can write to the Council of Ministers what kind of letters and I don't know what demands he will not be able to do on that plan, because practically the biggest part of the obligations under the European integration programme are on entities, something on cantons, and in part only on the Council of Ministers in the section concerning customs and what is the exclusive responsibility of BiH. I've checked what time it can be done, so I've heard that the Federation hasn't started working on it yet, for, at the canton level I don't know at all, if you put it all in context, you can make any conclusion about the Council of Ministers we won't get anything. So in order to speed this thing up, to get serious, I propose one conclusion: Asking the government of entities, cantons and Council of Ministers to do so within 30 days, because the question is whether we will be able to do so is a short deadline for this purpose, to inform the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives when the action plans of the BiH Reform Agenda 2015 will be completed. – 2018. In the light of the fact that the economic policy of the entity has already had to represent one part of these activities and that this part of the others to be made would only relate to the extension of 2016, 2017 and 2018. So, it's a huge deal, if it hasn't even started to work yet, then we are, we have a problem and we won't be able to solve this problem easily within this Parliament, so entities and cantons have to finish their part of the job, and the Council of Ministers in that part and jurisdiction where its jurisdiction is exclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7695	Thank you. Replica Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7696	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7697	It's a mistake, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7698	It's a mistake. It's somebody.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7699	Okay. Representative Denis Bećirović called for the debate. Is it a replica or remains, and Nikola Lovrinović stays. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7700	I don't know how different it would have been, so it wasn't, but to the previous speaker, I immediately stayed disappointed as chairman of the commission, the Joint Commission for European Integration, Mr Backović and his colleague spoke, says – they are forcing us, they are asking us. So, we have chosen this time and we have to agree, I know that there are different solutions that have been agreed by certain countries with EU members, and probably our 40 solution will be specific to itself, a lot of it will be touching, but so if, as a representative, you're rhetorically speaking, so they're asking us, they're forcing us, so I guess here we agree that we're going to go to the EU, that this is our way, and that we're actually agreeing with them what it's going to look like. So I'd like you not to say that at least, I understand that you're looking for better solutions for us more acceptable, for BiH, what we can handle, I agree with that, but no one will, I haven't experienced that anyone will force us to do anything, especially by force that we accept or bring some solutions that we can't possibly implement, neither respect nor say that we find them here. I just wish there wasn't such rhetoric. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not you, it's not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7702	Thank you. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7703	Replication response. Dear fellow Lovrinović, of course, not entering your real contacts, touch, experience in the work, not only on these problems in our country, I am measuringly telling you that in this country alone you have the USID Legal Office that prepares the laws, that only in this country is in the US Embassy Legal Office to prepare laws, that only in this country in the Office of the High Representative is the law being analysed and prepared. I have that experience, as well as the lady sitting now, the chairman, and we have how great and well we know how, how, and what happens when they're brought in. And when the legal solution fails, you brought it in. It's an example of the Privatisation Act, if you don't adopt the earthquake, the whole country will fail, through the law more than earthquakes the whole country has been devastated, so... so if I didn't pick them up here now, I could have elaborated it for days. And you, ma'am, were a participant of this process that I'm talking about with me and those presses. So I have a lot of experience on that side.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7704	Thank you. The debate by MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7705	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So we are discussing a document that has a very ambitious title, but unfortunately the content is not nearly as ambitious as the title of this document, so that I am at the site of the motion for this document today would rather title it as thesis for the development of the reform agenda. I must say at first, given that we have a difficult and socio-economic situation throughout BiH, and given the needs of the BiH state, this document is certainly both insufficient and incomplete. As an opposition MP, as well as other opposition MPs and 41 large and long to criticise, dispute and seek shortcomings in this document and therefore do not need much knowledge, however, I will not opt for that approach. As I said in the election of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić and this Council of Ministers, and today I want to stick to these views in principle, I will support every move, every law, every document in this Parliament that means even the slightest step forward of the BiH state and therefore no dilemma whatsoever, today I will vote in favour of this reform agenda with the acceptance of all findings that it is not complete and sufficient in line with the needs of today's BiH. However, I find it very important that we recognize when there is some consensus on some things, which represent even the slightest step forward, that such things should be supported and that there is no need to see who is neither the position nor the opposition, because it is in our best interests as citizens of this country. The truth is that there is nothing new in this document, nothing spectacular, is mostly indicative thesis that may be given even greater meaning when we have an action plan here on the parliamentary benches, but also until this time since the constitution of the new parliamentary majority, we have almost no law on the agenda, other legal acts, etc. It's good that at least one of these documents was on the agenda today. So, to be precise, I will never be an opposition to the state, to the state's interests, but only to the opposition to the nelados, to the destruction of the state and the ineffectiveness of the state's authorities. In that sense, I think that this Council of Ministers and Government should also have a chance to show what, how much and how they can work, in a month we will have a year from the General Elections held, in a few months and a year from the formation of the Council of Ministers and other governments at lower levels and why we will not give an opportunity to show everything I can and in what way I can do it. In this reform agenda, the truth today without an action plan, a plan or sketch of certain activities has been presented in six significant areas. The second area, and perhaps it should have been, is the first business climate and competitiveness, I am surprised that there is not one part here that refers to what the assumptions are for any better business climate in BiH, which is political stability, legal instruments and economic instruments in order to have a better business climate in BiH. There is one thing to welcome in this document, it is also on page 7 of point 14, here it is very clear that the realisation of this reform agenda will be regularly monitored, that it will be measured and that it will very clearly show how much and how we have progressed in relation to the things drawn out. I think it would be a good idea for today's House of Representatives to conclude, in particular, that such a report is not only regularly delivered to the EU Delegation, but also to the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because it is the Parliament, the Council of Ministers and state bodies and is the right place to create a state policy of BiH, not to do so in places where the state institutions of BiH are not. It wasn't that long ago, a year ago, a lot of political parties were building their political campaign on the thesis – we won't be meeting in cafes, hotels, motels, etc. but in BiH institutions. Today, unfortunately, we see that not everyone contributes equally here in the institutions and in the debates to just one such idea that I support.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7706	Thank you. The debate of Predrag Kožul, MP. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7707	Well, notorna is the fact that we're talking about this agenda post-festum, that's right, it's painfully passed. And when I look at this document, I would say that it is more important than it is... which it says, the bonuses we have on the basis of the agenda, the political bonuses that bring us certain Privileges, certain steps forward in this famous European path that we often mention. I'm kind of glad, even though it's not good that there's no action plan, I'm glad that here I can have the illusion that speaking here about the remains of the Council of Ministers, to us MPs and indirectly to the public, who took part in the agenda, the general public, maybe in some ways and in some ways, I'll influence that action plan. But I would also like to influence a few of the things that I really miss about this agenda, there are a lot of things that are written in it, but one thing that I miss terribly is the issue of balanced development in the whole country, it's not mentioned anywhere in this agenda, and that's a fact that is too important for the future of this country and the fact that currently does not exist in this country. As a consequence of this balanced development in the whole country in the area of public finances, taxation and fiscal sustainability of this document, the distribution of public revenues should also be mentioned. I'd say a translated and correct distribution of public income which we don't have at least again in the Federation area right now. I caught a marketing contribution on TV last night in which Canton Sarajevo boasts many of its achievements, including the average salary. This average salary in Canton of Sarajevo is a distant dream, I would say, for all the other counties and cantons in this country, so here's my illusion that what I'm saying in part of the action plan will somehow help build elements that will contribute to balanced development in the whole country. When we talk about this agenda and the action plan, I am personally allergic to terms of action plan, management plans, etc. etc. So, the time in which we wait for action plans to be created and agreed, especially with a document like this that needs to be set to a series of levels and is a very complex way to bring it into line, the time we need to adopt an action plan is most often an alibi not to do the normal, clear, all the visible things we can read from this agenda. So I would plead that everything that is on the agenda at the level of the action plan, there are things that are... defined, working and not waiting, and about the action plan, hopefully, that we will not post-festum talk here and probably participate in its adoption in the best possible way and in good faith. Because there are things in this agenda that I find very attractive, so to speak, except for the acceptable, the good, the things that are general, etc. And I agree. Mentioning the World Bank in several places on this agenda is something that is somehow something to me at this point, even if I don't know exactly what it means and how attractive it is, because one of the things other than those that are in this country is a serious problem, except for all of our political, etc. problems are liquidity problems at all levels of government and in different institutions. So when I read here that the World Bank will help with the resolution of different budgets, the World Bank will be involved in the resolution of debt in health care. It seems to me that it's too important to work on this agenda, to work on an action plan, but let's wait for these action plans then we're working on implementing things that we have from this agenda very clearly and completely logically, so let me say the bonuses of this agenda are stronger than its essential content, and in that sense we need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7708	Thank you. A deputy called for the debate, and the replica Senad Šepić, I apologize. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7709	Very briefly, it is more suggestive of my colleague Kožul, so one very important thing he said - balanced development in the entire BiH area, it must be a strategic definition of the government's action. I have had almost three years of initiative in Parliament, adopted in Parliament in the past term, and now in this mandate, that the Council of Ministers draw up and deliver to us in the parliamentary procedure the law on equal regional development and investment in the entire BiH area. I have to tell you, so let's take advantage of this debate here and now, to affirm it once again, if we don't really have it in September or in October, this one, we're going to be dealing with all the things that are going on here in Parliament. Is it possible for three years to insist on one thing, here to get the consent and support of this House, to get full support for it, and to be ignored by the executive government here, then we all really have a problem. I call upon my colleague, this one, Predrag Kožul, to in this sense, perhaps through some conclusion or through some additional, what is said to be called and affirmed by the Council of Ministers to finally respond to what we have done two years ago, and even a few months ago this new Council of Ministers' meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7710	Thank you. A deputy, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, called for the debate. And I'm asking you from your clubs to invite representatives who have left the session against this Rules of Procedure, and then we're going to tell them what reason we're inviting them after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7711	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will tell you right away, regardless of what I belong to a political party who participates in the government, according to the BiH Council of Ministers for the situation in which BiH is located, I refer exclusively to their results and you will often hear from me if it is ever necessary to criticise the existing Council of Ministers with the goal of improving the work. But I will also stand up for the pay phone and say when I think the Council of Ministers has done something good and I think we should encourage the Council of Ministers in particular today, because the BiH Council of Ministers has done an extraordinary thing when it comes to BiH. Public finances, taxation and fiscal sustainability, business climate and competitiveness, the labour market, social protection and pension reform, the rule of law and good governance and public administration reform are sectoral areas in which all levels of government in BiH have reached agreement that have any competence in these areas on the European path of BiH. In 2008, BiH concluded a Stabilisation and Association Treaty and from then on for a month to two days we worked in relations with the EU on the basis of the Interim Agreement. So, since 2008, there has been a blockade of the European road to BiH, since December 2014, and to this day the EU's relationship with BiH has changed, the BiH Presidency statement adopted here in Parliament and the Stabilisation and Association Treaty has come into force. The reform agenda is the second part of the Presidency's Declaration package, signed by all political parties, signed by all political parties and approved here in the BiH Parliament, and after its implementation takes place, an assessment will be made by the European Commission on the award of BiH's candidate status for EU membership. That is why we need to strongly support the Council of Ministers and all levels of government in BiH today, this is not a question of position or opposition, so that quality realization and BiH will be approved as a candidate for EU membership as soon as possible. I welcome the efforts made by the Federation government, the issue of collective agreements that have threatened to destroy budgets in the Federation of BiH has been resolved, I expect it to be done at other levels in BiH. I welcome the efforts of the Ministry and the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations when it comes to deblocking, as I would say, our competitiveness with products towards the EU, we have managed to unblock this time, and here is the disturbance, and I hope that it will be adequately resolved. I therefore propose that today's House of Representatives through their discussion, through their relationship to strengthen support for the efforts of the BiH Council of Ministers in order for us to move BiH forward as quickly as possible on the European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7712	Thank you, counsel. Dušanka Majkić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7713	So I would like to say one small replica to my colleague Džaferović, I should support the Council of Ministers, but it should also be supported by entity governments with 70% of obligations. So, everyone submitted their share of the burden in this business, it wasn't adopted that solution that was proposed at the moment, it took a lot of co-ordination to come to the reform agenda, and there was an extremely high amount of energy and effort to come. We'll thank the Council of Ministers when we get this second piece, because that means that they need their engagement in order to get all the documents on which we can decide and work to get from entities, cantons and those involved in making action plans. So far, we have nothing to thank and what to support them for, because it's part of their regular obligations. So, everyone needs support, for all those involved in this trip, making only a festival at the Council of Ministers is really not correct, because most of the work has not been on them so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7714	Thank you. The debate by Representative Fehim Škaljić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7715	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As part of today's discussion, I would like to say that BiH has no alternative in the European pathway, this is not a goal that has unlimited time resources, nor a procedure that allows one to be engaged and the other to wait, it requires the dynamics of all and operationality. Today we have on the table of the agenda as a commitment, we can say that this is a positive step because different levels of government have achieved some agreement, as a commitment, can be said to this text a lot of resentment or disadvantages, but it is one of the processes of forward movement. However, the lack of a network plan that dynamically sets up tasks actually means that we do not have a definition yet, without it only good intentions and waiting for a stand-by. 45 On the other hand, if we compare the processes through which countries have already joined the EU or are ahead of us, then we see that they have and that they have played a completely different role than the one we have... on the European path, it must change. When we ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. executives of various levels to have a plan, to make this plan available to Parliament, when we ask, and I am an advocate of not information, but of reports, the information is something that cannot be answered, and the reports are firm according to which exactly what has been done and what can be welcomed and accepted, and what is to be answered for. This Parliament must have regular reports on the European path towards implementing the action plan. But the question arises – what is our role here, are we observers and are we in a position to say that there is also a need for an action plan of parliaments of all levels of government in BiH? It is known that there is no European path without the strong role of parliaments, that in a country like this cannot be achieved without the firm coordination of different levels of government, Ms. Majkić is therefore talking about it, over 70%... is on the entity. Have we sat down, has the leadership of this Parliament sat down with the leadership of other parliaments, which are in charge of this process, to agree on how to coordinate and speed up the processes? What is it and have we committed ourselves to, in which way do we want to strengthen in Parliament the structure that will allow for greater pro-pulsivity? You've seen in these ten months of activity, we've had a pace whose pro-pulsibility is very low, in this dimension we're not going to achieve the goals that stand before us as a responsibility to citizens and commitment to be a community of European countries. At the Committee on European Integration, we discussed whether Parliament and its bodies will be the ones who inform themselves or will be those who participate in the process, are responsible for part of the process and control the process of those levels of government over which they are responsible. I advocate that in one of the meetings of the College, the question must be put in place, the Parliament and the parliaments in BiH must have a greater responsibility and a more significant role on the European path, we are still on the pre-referencing side, we see it from the process so far, we post-festum is being informed and we are not taking part in the creation of this, it is blocking forward movement, I think we have to put our role in this differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7716	Thank you. I will take advantage of the opportunity, although some have not returned, given that the gentleman presented and called us to account for Parliament, I will remind the MPs of Article 7 in which he says - that the representative who was prevented from attending the House or the committee whose member or who has to leave the session during its term, shall inform the President of the House or the chairman of the commission and shall present his reasons. I pray, because no one, today I see a walk going on since the session started, no one answered, I watched carefully, we don't need to share the reasons enough to just say that someone should go out, and I thank all those who used to do it, I followed it, here's an esteemed colleague, I watch her, Agent Hanka Vajzović has every time told her that she should go out, uh, while I'm sitting here, so I'm asking you not for me, as someone who holds the presidency, but you're doing it for yourself and for the elevation of this House, and I thank you for that. For the debate, Damir Arnaut's replica, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7717	I thank the chairman. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7718	Damir Arnaut, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7719	Thank you. And I apologize to my colleague Vajzović, this is a short one. Replica to Mr. Džaferović, who pointed out today that, among other things, the Council of Ministers is currently in session, I assume he was referring to the current Council of Ministers' meeting, bearing some credit for the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which absolutely does not stand and the facts deny it. Namely, the EU Council gave the green light for the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with BiH at its session of 16 March 2015, and after adopting, among other things, the Joint Declaration on Reforms. On 16 March 2015, and the Council of Ministers of BiH was established on 31 March 2015, so I do not see at all any possibility that the Council of Ministers, i.e. its current assembly, has any credit for the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, since there was no such thing as the day when the EU Council gave the green light for the entry into force of the same. As for encouraging the Council of Ministers, by pointing to the Rules of Procedure for four months, I encouraged them to start attending sessions, as the Rules of Procedure requires, so it took them four months, I am really using the opportunity of Mrs. Borovac, who is really here all the time. However, it took us four months to encourage them to start coming to the sessions, so I don't know how many of them we still need to encourage them, but in any case, here's to take this as a replica, but first of all correcting the wrong quote, 16.03. At its session, the EU Council agrees on the entry into force of the SAA, and the Council of Ministers is being established on 31.03. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7720	Thank you. Debate, MP Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7721	Thank you, esteemed chairman, co-chair, ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to point out very briefly that we're all happy with the fact that here we're moving into some long-awaiting activities and the people are waiting, the public is scared by the syntagm of painful reforms, it's most often mentioned, but here we all need to be active, happy to finally start doing something in this sense. All the values have been destroyed and in this respect, when we read, I have here and a proposal for a reform agenda and this adopted part, when we read carefully, two sets can be made clear, what we should have done long ago, and what we are asked to do on the European path, what could be new and could be useful to better regulate society. In this part that remains somehow and, excuse me, before that I must say that it is obvious that it has come from outside, this text has come and it has been translated, a little discouraging to the fact that those who have agreed this text did not pay attention to it, so there have been a lot of things missing that reduce the value of this, make this text inconclusive. And on the other hand, what focus is in some places is simply banalizing this task that stands before us. What will be done by employment institutions or not giving enough elements to encourage all of us to be better. It is said to be an accent on wage cuts and employment controls. On the other hand, 47 years ago we're talking about public administration reform, no one mentions here what is excessive public spending. Here on the agenda, I didn't see that we were going to do this in particular. We should have done it a long time ago. He's not even here. They have MPs' demands, whether they need anything, or a rolling stock, or they don't know the commissions, they need to get citizens' trust back into institutions. And it's standing here somewhere. First of all, it appears that the institutions of those competences they have should be returned. So far, we have one phenomenon of the shift of these powers in the direction of various commissions, impact groups or I don't know what. A lot of things seem to me to be here, now if it's going to be in an action plan that's obviously missing, we'll see. Like this, I'm afraid, at least my opinion to say, I'm not very encouraged that this is going to go smoothly. I agree, everyone who can do something needs to be encouraged. So far, this text has left a lot behind, a lot of what we should have done a long time ago, how we're going to focus on what we've been given on that European path, I don't know. Here I had some notes here or, say, here, please, says education reform. In short, only the case – education reform, and currently needed to be done long ago. I have a problem with a kid in the fourth grade in high school from Brcko coming to Sarajevo, just high school is high school, you can't need equivalent or I don't know what, you can't enroll in the fourth grade, you're still telling me fine so you just need a reading. So these are the things that are our daily life, and then we say that there will be painful reforms and it will be painful if we welcome this phase when everything is really destroyed and we have to make big cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7722	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7723	I thank the chairman and also wish you the successful leadership of this House in the coming period. The Party of Democratic Activity believes that the reform agenda that we are discussing today is the most important political document agreed in this year, which confirms the commitment of the government to all levels of government in BiH that BiH's European path has no alternative nor is it asked, which is what we are looking forward to and which we very strongly support. This is, we could hear from earlier discussions of colleagues and colleagues, a very important document and a political framework that binds all political entities in BiH. Of course, in line with the importance of this document, we need to ask the question whether we are ready for this document and how we will implement structural reforms in all six areas. A question for all of us and all political entities in BiH, what is the path of implementing established reforms and accepted reforms? My opinion is, and I share the same with earlier discussions, that the Council of Ministers should first of all identify the direct jurisdiction of the state level of this document, and according to the priorities of the three-year time period, but since we have spent half a year already, we can tell the two-and-a-half-year time period, develop an action plan for the adoption of laws, implementation of the programmes and measures necessary to implement the established reform policy. The Council of Ministers' 2015 work programme must be urgently brought into line with the agreed reform agenda. If we read the same, then we must conclude, unfortunately, that the Council of 48 ministers has not implemented the obligations under its work programme in the past half of the year, has not proposed most of the laws provided for in this programme, and, in accordance with this finding, I feel free to conclude that the Council of Ministers should amend its work programme for the current year, and to put priority in the programme of work of the commitments to be implemented in accordance with the reform agenda by the end of the current financial year, because we have an obligation, especially those concerning financial consolidation already to be implemented in 2015. So, we should have already taken appropriate measures to discuss the financial consolidation that is necessary for this year in 2015, as mentioned in point 8. So these deadlines that are not in the reform agenda, but which can be read from them are very short. I ask all of us if we will be able to respect it, because this agenda is also very ambitious, for a very short period of time in 2015-2018. It's a short period of time for the commitments that follow. We need to do these obligations, not for the sake of the EU, but for ourselves, if we want a better environment, business, but also a living environment. If we don't want to, that's another thing. But as far as we can imagine and as far as we've recognised, all political entities are ready to face the challenges that will be, so I might not say painful, but it will be very, very large, given that we have very negative established practices, which must and should be changed in order for BiH to be a candidate for membership in the shortest time, if not the EU member. So I would point out under point 8 of the document in question the need to reduce the budget deficit, which requires a reduction in the expenditure of the public administration. I will quote – an increase in public income will be achieved by increasing income from taxes, which means increasing tax rates, expanding the tax base, increasing the tax base, so we will find something else that can be taxed in order to increase revenues, reducing the grey economy, that is necessary and, as counterpart Vajzović pointed out, we should have done this already, or we should have done it aggressively, reducing tax exemptions and improving the work of tax administrations. This is important, if these measures show insufficient by the end of 2015, additional measures including VAT increases, including VAT increases, will be considered in agreement with the IMF based on detailed assessments. So, if we are to take these measures already in 2015, we are not to take because they are not enough, we need to think about increasing VAT rates. This has been accepted by this reform agenda, and I think we need to recognise it in due time and that it is above all the Council of Ministers' obligation to think well about this finding, about this accepted commitment. In line with this document, which is very important for BiH, for public consumption, a total salary fund and all current expenditures at all levels of government that will not be able to increase regardless of the growth of tax revenues should be established. So, if we increase tax rates, increase tax revenues, increase the tax base, regardless of what we have an increase in income, there is no increase in the total wage fund or for public administration costs. It's a message to the BiH citizens. We political entities have accepted that we will not increase, so we will not increase the salary fund and other obligations arising from the Law on Salary and Compensation. Are we ready for that? Here we all said we were and we're looking forward to going that way. I also think it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to draw up a consolidation and coordination plan with all levels of government in order to prepare and establish a common fund for the financing of the BiH public administration. So this is an obligation stemming from those measures that are priority, which means that a public administration cost in BiH must finally be created, 49 total funds. It's a very big job because we know that we have all levels of government including local levels. I also think that we need the public to know that under point 13 in the field of Public Administration Reform is stated to the Council of Ministers of BiH, entity government, canton government and Brcko District will introduce restrictions on public administration employment until the audited personnel systems are adopted and implemented including the use of the norm, and the overall public sector salary fund will be frozen until the audited wage system is adopted on the basis of value. So this is a very strong message for BiH citizens, this is what BiH citizens expect. And what does that mean, basically? This means that there is no employment in the public sector, and since this reform is already in effect, its implementation is already ongoing, so there is no employment in the public sector today either. Do we respect that? We should ask ourselves that question. I don't think we've reached the level of respect for what we've taken over, and we've taken it from the moment this reform agenda enters into force... /the recording was cut short by such a promise to the citizens of BiH. All governments of all levels have accepted that, if they are, I congratulate them and encourage them to go in that direction, governments of all levels of government including local self-government. Since this is a very complex document that is consistent with all levels of government and in which competences are shared, I find it very difficult to draw up a quality implementation action plan in a short time. I would therefore be free to propose a conclusion that will differ slightly from earlier proposals, but which will more realistically reflect the weight of the implementation of this document and make it easier for the Council of Ministers to recognise priorities in their domains, so it might be best to task the Council of Ministers to put in place short-term emergency measures and obligations resulting from the agreed reform agenda in 2015. So, for this rest of the year 2015. The second conclusion would suggest that the Council of Ministers be tasked with developing and delivering by the end of 2015 an action plan for the implementation of the 2016-2018 reform agenda to the House of Representatives. This is because it is very difficult this year to expect that the Council of Ministers will have time to draw up a comprehensive action plan, and as I have already stated, there is a commitment that needs to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7724	Thank you. The technical error has led to order. Our next representative is Maja Gasal the Vražalica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7725	I thank the Honorable Chairman. By reading this document nothing new, I even if I weren't familiar with some things I'd turn to crying but in the end it would be ridiculous. In the action plan, I really expect and hope that the committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will be included because we were not involved in the reform agenda itself. Why do I think that, besides the Joint Committee on European Integration, there should be some other committees involved, just for the reason that there is not a single moment here, not a single word of this gender component, or social sector reform, in which this social discrimination of BiH citizens will finally be abolished, territorial 50 discrimination, where mothers of the family will, whether or not, need our population, who, along the way, do not even know what the current data of our population is still being managed by that '91 census. A year. We also don't know the demographic picture of BiH, and I don't need to thank the Council of Ministers, no government, any entity or cantal, at all because this is a purely one translated text written by a foreigner who is not familiar with the opportunities in BiH with the state, the everyday state, daily discrimination, the daily repression of the people of BiH. And even when you read our agenda, you see, point 4 is the Reform Agenda, and there's somewhere there's agreement for a grant to buy new cars, a new generation of cars for respected chairmans, I don't know what and who. Here I am, even though the grant has not been made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers that the new generation of tractors imports so that people can have fields, the Livna Field, the Glamonic Field, which remained empty, which unfortunately I do not know the data of how many milk clippers, the cheese from Livna has been suspended at the border towards the EU, but I know the data on how far it has moved from Livna and Lebanon Canton. It's my hometown where I spent my vacation thinking I shouldn't go out of BiH, there's a lot of nice things that we can, can't, spend money in our country. Just for one weekend, 6 buses left BiH and closed down all their stables, sold out their cattle, closed down their houses in which they invested for years, raised children from school and went after bread with their stomachs. So, in the 1960s, Livno was leaving the foster home, the father, today the entire family is leaving the Livna Canton. When you pass the Livnian Canton from Livn to Glamoch and you see those fields that have been processed and remained, even the crop will not be removed or sold in this year because people have left the country, I need to read and give some more consent to some grant for some Toyota new, I don't want a Tojota tractor for any canton any, for some entity I would support it, today I won't or will ever support it. On the other hand, when I read it, and we had the opportunity to discuss it in some sessions before, it says attracting foreign investors, investing. I worked as a reference officer and translator, translators in Germany's Chamber of Commerce, where potential Germans came, full of money, enthusiasm, and wanted to open up some factories, metallurgy, wood sector in any canton, in any entity, and when they talk to our businessmen, with our employees and when they see that they're actually without the support of the state barely ending the end, so they can't work on any additional labour force but they can't because in Tito's time educated personnel are extinct and these education sectors aren't adapted to the labour market today, so while you train someone to work on some piece of metallurgy or wood sector you're losing that money and everything, so the German says, so this is a wonderful country, you have potential, you have everything, but they're a little bit of it's not the main problem, though we're turning to Serbia and neighbouring countries. In BiH, there are chambers of commerce at the entity level, at the level of BiH, which were not able to create a single register of economic operators in BiH until today, so when the German Google and typed in some metal sector of BiH, it does not get any information. He is unable to connect on the internet with someone with whom he might do some exchange of funds to a jointventcher or anything else, then simply type it into a Balkan country, finds Serbia, Croatia where it's all finely tied and done and then I read here I need to attract some foreign investors in a country where I haven't even regulated my business entities, or my employees, or my employees, employers and so on. A foreign investor will come when they see our companies doing well and working, that our workers are satisfied. Now, of course, foreign investors are coming to use, we're supposed to brag about some 51 brochures, come on, we've got cheap labour. If it is the BiH's main asset, then absolutely no one should come. Another thing, as far as this reform is concerned, there is no reform of the agrarian sector anywhere. The reform of the public administration is very clear, by one directive absolutely you say 50% is excess, excess labour. Why? Because in this translation it tells you, imagine it says – so far we have not hired the best rankings but from now on with the reform agenda we will employ the best rankings. And who have we hired so far? Foreign capital, party, human resources we employed, we didn't deal with competences or anything. I hope and look forward to an action plan in which I believe that we should be actively involved in giving our contribution and the art of these ad.hocc of some commissions where we are dealing with the appointments of these best-ranked, we should have an ad.hoc commission that will work together with the Council of Ministers on reforming the legal framework for improvement, on reforming the demographic picture of BiH in order to stop this fall of birth and this migration from BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7726	Replica, Madam Chairman, Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7727	Thank you very much. Here's a kind of replica, but hopefully it won't be misunderstood, this is what I came out for, and here's what I'd like to do if my colleague Maja Gasal was looking for and reshaping this point, sticking to what's good for BiH and really doing all sorts of steps and we're practically acting to do everything that's right for all the peoples and citizens who live in BiH. But I will indeed, I have to go out to replicate because she proudly encouraged herself to come from Livna, and I am even more proud to say that I come from Livna, that I love this city, that I was born in it, that I live in it, and no one has the right to say how much I love this city, that I love this city more than anyone, but as much as I love it, I want to be with this city as I want to be with everyone else and I want to be open and honest with all of BiH, and in that way I want to show love. It's not true that six buses have left Livna, not one bus has left, but probably when they hear these debates, I hear more every day stories Livno is a town from which people have always left, people leave for different reasons, and we can't influence it, people go away and they have jobs and they have existence. In politics, it is our duty and responsibility to do everything to create assumptions that people here live normally, to have secured existence, and the right to choose everyone's choice as well as your colleagues that you have decided to live in Sarajevo, and someone else's to leave Livna, I don't know either in Split or in Zagreb or elsewhere. I'm glad I love all my people from both Livn and from all over BiH wherever they live, and I would love for this rhetoric that has been promoted in some way lately to be promoted, promoted, it certainly serves something that is not good for BiH and its peoples and citizens. Thank you very much, I hope you understand me positively.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7728	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7729	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica is Mrs. Gasal and Mrs. Krišto, so I don't answer twice, both of them. Mrs. Gasal, I'm glad you said this, I just feel sad because I've provided precise data per total amount of eviction per year for this pay phone that left BiH. So, if you remember, I brought out the data for 2000 to 2014, and after years for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 exactly how many people have left BiH permanently, especially in age, which is painful for BiH, if you can remember that. Also, if you can remember, I'm glad you said that, and I'm glad that this and the press are tracking that absolutely ignoring and they're not going to pass on what they're saying about this talk about school and non-compliance and that's what I've elaborated on this speaker. Mrs. Krišto, I'm glad you're saying they're not moving out, just cruel truths saying people are moving out, cruel truths. Not from Livna, not from Sarajevo, but from BiH. This applies, look at Trebinje, look at Bileću, look at Gacko, look at Čajniča, Rudo, Višegrad, the whole RS, the Federation, from BiH. Have we sat down and wondered why this youth is leaving us? Do you know what the average age is now in BiH? Exactly because there are no young generations. You, me, you're very young, here's Džaferović, we'll stay to work and plow and grow, we who go towards the end of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7730	Thank you. Replica, Maja Gasal the Vražalica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7731	I'm really trying to get some data to explain it, and on those six buses, I sent dear people to me on Saturday from Livna on Sunday. Six buses, some of which were Globtur, some of the private transporters who saw the business now and bought some vans to drive these people away. Mrs. Krišto may not be moving people out of Livna in your world, they've already moved into mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7732	Thank you. We understand each other, I hope. I, in the interest of this House and all those I love, whether they live in Livno or anywhere else, would not further comment on these views, and I love only concrete and well-founded. Next for discussion, Nermina Kapetanović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7733	Madam Chairman, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. 53 I believe that there is no person who is not committed to BiH's European path in this room and I believe that all today's discussions, including the criticisms addressed to the Council of Ministers, are very, very well-intentioned and will ultimately come up with an action plan for which, as far as I have information, he is in the works and I don't believe that he will have to wait until the end of the year for the action plan to be proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it would be better to have him in front of us now that we are discussing him, but rather making sure that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, at the invitation of the chairman and two Co-chairs of the Joint Commission for European Integration already has this Reform agenda, therefore, it is not a matter that we are discussing him regardless of the fact that we cannot influence more significantly on this document in which he is now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Chairman, please provide me with only the conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7735	Of course. I ask you for peace and quiet to respect order and respect your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7736	Thank you. So, Mr. Zvizdić, in the way he presented the reform in the 6 areas, gave me as long-standing advocates and women in politics, is the hope that the time of political consensus is finally coming in BiH, and there is absolutely no need to minimize the efforts of entity governments that I think have done the most work for at this point, but of course not to minimize efforts, especially several ministries within the Council of Ministers for which this really is, here today I will take the opportunity to say what the Ministry of Foreign Trade is doing, so here is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights, however, to move forward. And what gives me hope for a good future in BiH is the fact that we are moving forward, we are still negotiating something. This document has, however, been produced by a joint agreement between the two entity governments, and I can talk about the Federation government. I can't agree, unfortunately with those who say this is a document written by foreigners for a number of reasons, I'll explain why and how later. Let's just say that if this line is lined up, although I don't think it's very orderly, for me, in a way that's of great importance, if I start from public finances, taxation and fiscal sustainability, the fact that we're going to reduce public spending in which they are, in a way that they are, we know that in the past term it wasn't, and that, in addition to the conclusions of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a large number of persons have been employed, although the act and the official document said there will be no new employment, it gives me hope that there will be a employment control and that it will not happen. As a result, the Komsija for European Integration also reached a common conclusion yesterday that no new employment would take place within the framework of the European Integration Sector, rather than try to suggest to the respected members of the College that the internal redistribution of persons with qualifications to work in such a commission should we try to capitalise on the work of this commission. And this shows a reflection of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's goodwill, and I believe the Council of Ministers. 54 The good thing is what we've been talking about for years, increasing the excise on alcohol and tobacco, in the Federation it went very hard because of the very strong lobbies that were. If this will strengthen the health insurance funds I show the same fear as Mr. Rančić, if the health contributions are to be reduced, what will happen. I don't think the health insurance system will collapse, but there will have to be an alternative way of getting money into health insurance funds, so let's say through what we here as representatives know that we have been proposing to the Federation Parliament to introduce additional and supplementary health insurance, it has never fully revived. So for 13 years it takes some truth and need to live, but better ever than never. So, I welcome what I've been talking about. I believe in the good intentions of the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments in the segment of creating a more favourable business climate and improving competitiveness, and I am not a skeptical vista of it, especially when it comes to faster registration and more efficient business registration. We are witnessing that many powerful foreign investors left BiH for a simple reason because they did not have enough time to spend their money on expensive registration, to get a building permit, electricity permits and many other obstacles that were happening. We have signals from several cantons, and even from the Federation government, I believe, I don't know about RS, I apologize if I'm wrong, that they're already making it easier for companies to register, and it seems to me that these governments are taking on a very proactive relationship. And we don't need the Council of Ministers to expect it, but to coordinate their activities, it gives me encouragement and hope, and I'm glad that's the case. Expansion of the tax base, what I insist on and I think it is a good intention, I asked a few sessions ago of the Council of Ministers when it will pass the Law on the personal identification number, when it is adopted, it has to do with the sector of social and fiscal sustainability of public finances and taxation, then it will not be possible to cover any income, it will absolutely be all transparent, it is a law that is European law. Croatia has done it among the first laws that Croatia has done on its European path, we have translated it, because I and I use this opportunity to propose to the Council of Ministers that such a law should come into parliamentary procedure for a simple reason, because then in the social sector it will be impossible to use multiples, and that kind of phenomenon we have, we have very wealthy people who come to the Centre for Social Work with Expensive Cars, get social benefits, and on the other hand you have one large, large population of people who do not live on the edge of poverty but are in deep poverty and indeed out of the 150 marks they receive compensation, I don't think they can survive. Eh, then on the other hand, I believe that the Council of Ministers' intention, and so we say entity governments' primacy to implement reduction of labour loads, is good, but it needs to be settled for out-of- budget funds, and that's not impossible because the losses are really going to be very high. Again, I just said that I can't agree that this is a copy document because part of this document is very familiar to me. Let's just say it's in my political party when the area is doing employment, without the intention of advertising a political party I won't tell her the name is known, but as far as work and employment are concerned, everything that's written here is in our election platform. So, we didn't write it from anyone, absolutely, that document I've never seen before. What gives me encouragement, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will certainly do this, I expect, in the Federation government there are already alternative ways of stimulating the first employment of young people is exactly what the distinguished representative Gasal was talking about. Those leaving BiH are primarily young people. We must find a way and I think that Prime Minister Novalić is in the Federation government, that they have understood the need for detention, especially intellectual youth in BiH, but also those who are not university-educated, so that everything we have talked about for years about the need for labour mobility in BiH, the fluctuation, between the RS and the Federation, between cantons, 55 prequalifications and prequalification. So if we have such an army of young people who are victims of an education system's inconsistency with the needs of the labour market, and where we have again, as advocates, insisted in the Federation government for years, it is now actually coming to me on the agenda, at least as far as the Federation government is concerned. I made sure that they were already heading towards the realization of these activities and I congratulate them on it, I'm glad that's the case. The very control of work on black, here you have seen that they have signed dragon sentences, so I would like them to be bigger than in the Republic of Macedonia, there are 50,000 marks penalty for work, 25,000 euros for one person who was found working on black and I think it was supposed to be in BiH, but since then. I'm glad you're predicting strengthening national quality control. We from Bosnia should learn from Croatia. Croatia knows how to create a national brand. And the way they present their products and say I love Croatian, I buy Croatian, I really congratulate them, I would like us to strengthen the national quality and certification of our products, so let's work on certification of export laboratories, let's say cheese, we have fantastic cheeses from Livna, from Kozarska Dubica, from several, from Travnik. Why should we be ashamed of our cheese? Why should we be ashamed of our mineral water? We know, without the intention of advertising any producer, there is a spring in the Zeničko-Doboj canton, two springs and springs that have world medals, platinum, gold and silver medals for quality. Why are we ashamed to export our water to BiH, only in the first two months 2m euros in water purchases. So, I think that in both entity governments in the Council of Ministers, there is still a growing awareness, a decision-maker and I think there is a good will and that it is shown in this document right here in front of us. Especially, and I'm going to end my discussion, what gives me hope is the labour market, that's what I was particularly interested in. From what I've seen, the Federation government has already decided that it will deal with a very serious issue of solving the problems of persons who need to be tied to work experience and persons who are long-term unemployed, again I say systems of requalification, qualifications and education, I think it gives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7737	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7738	We all hope and pray to our colleagues that we all go on good faith to truly love BiH with all our heart, to defend what is ours and what is Bosnian and Herzegovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7739	Thank you. Replica Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7740	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to answer for a discussion at all, but I, uh, was invited by the discussions of my predecessors, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we praise this agenda and, which is actually a good 56 frame document that can bring good BiH, and on the other hand in discussions we have such negative connotations, e.g. There have been mentions of migration... some municipalities in others etc., it's a natural one process, it's a normal thing, I've been coming from a municipality that's increased the population by about 12,000 for the last 20 years, it's, it's, it's a whole population of two smaller municipalities in the Federation. But they also disagree, investors have left BiH, may have gone to other parts of BiH, from one to the other, etc. It's a natural sequence, because capital is, they say, a very timid animal and it goes where there's less fear, where there's less danger to it. I therefore appeal to all of us and this agenda should actually be one framework document that will actually provide an environment in which it will be, a favourable environment for investment, investment, employment, etc. and this will prevent migration not only within BiH, but also outside BiH. What's worrying, and I didn't see it on this agenda, is actually a relationship with our diaspora. We have a huge number of people living in the diaspora who, in fact, we need to agree to in some way by providing the environment in BiH to move in, to return to BiH, and how if we do not have minimum living conditions in certain parts of BiH, and we do not have justice, and of course we do not have a chance to gain knowledge and achieve, or progress in the lives of our population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7741	Thank you. Salko Sokolović representative, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7742	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues, because I am taking the floor for the first time, and here I also want to congratulate, in this opening statement, those who have been decently representing BiH these days, it is the basketball team of cadet and junior BiH, or Mr Tuka, and I hope that this legislative body, together with the Council of Ministers, will find more room to find more room for all athletes in BiH, especially those representing BiH outside the borders, to show little more responsibility when it comes to their status above all, and then to finance these sports competitions. As far as this reform agenda is concerned, which is shown in six significant areas, and I want to point out two things, in my opinion, which I don't think have been said here so far, and here's what we said before, and first of all, I said to myself, I'm not going to repeat some things, and I'm not going to convince the text that we've got here and we've been able to read. It's good that we have a reform agenda, we've been looking for it, it's good because it's kind of the way or the beginning of BiH's path to meet certain obligations on our path to the EU. However, here's what I want to say here today about this reform agenda, in a way we should have some kind of talker here, that's mostly the chairman or his deputies, because I'm not going to get an answer, I'm going to ask myself and you, and I'm not going to get a question. What I've noticed by reading this reform agenda is that the commitments from the agenda are not the same as those made to entities, so we don't treat entities the same way. So, I think it's more of a commitment to the Federation entity and I'm going to show that in a few examples, I'm not saying it here to irritate the replica, I'm just saying it out of obligation to the citizens of BiH, I want it treated the same way, that BiH legislation in both entities is harmonised, that we have the same approach to resolving certain obligations that 57 are treated here in the financial reform agenda, is it business climate, labour market, etc. I don't want to say it again. That's why I'm saying I should have the answer to those who created the reform agenda, I guess that's the Council of Ministers agreeing with the ethnic governments, cantons, etc. So here's when I talk about this difference in the treatment of obligations, I say when it comes to the business climate, it says – business environment reforms will include in the Federation, cantons and Brcko District new laws in business societies, etc. etc. Not to read, no mention of RS in this section. When it comes to the pension system, the Federation is explicitly ordered here to pass a new law, and the RS to review the existing law, these are different, different treatment issues of the pension system. Or when we have social protection, it says -- setting up a centralized database of all social giving users in the Federation and cantons. What about Republika Srpska, did it resolve that question, should it be harmonised, as it will be resolved in the RS, or will the Federation and the cantons do as the RS did? So, from this, if she was working, this obviously doesn't show. And here's to not burdening you, you've read about this, I just want to point to this thing that I've seen as a possible problem, this, in treating through legislation tomorrow, means BiH citizens across BiH. And here I want to point out one more thing, so I'm not going to look at all the areas there, it's already been said, someone's already been talking about fiscal consolidation, that it's going to be implemented by reducing public spending, increasing public income, and here are the precise public revenues, in which way they're going to increase, by increasing income from taxes, by expanding the tax base, by reducing the grey economy, and by some measures there. The last of these measures is to improve the work of tax administrations, which I think should be first and if these measures do not contribute to increasing public revenues then we will increase VAT. Now that's what I don't agree with knowing us in these previous twenty-something years since the BiH state, uh, we may be struggling with these problems, trying to solve one of these revenues, one of these commitments, for example, by increasing income from taxes, and then at some point when we can't get the inspectors to do it, then we'll go along a line of less resistance and increase VAT. Which is not good for me, because I don't think that this VAT item should have been in this reform agenda at all, but here we haven't talked about it, we couldn't give our opinion as representatives of the people and say what would be good to install, but it's for me some potential danger knowing how if we were bound to do something, we're dealing with some problems, so I say it's easier to increase the VAT than to improve the work of an inspector and it won't, it's not good and it would be desirable to eliminate it from this course. Or this, we were just talking about reducing the contribution to health care, Mrs. Kapetanović said the collapse of health funds. Not us unless we implement it in order to bring down health funds, we will bring down the health of BiH citizens, which is the biggest problem. So, the system of one entire insurance, health insurance. So there are a couple of very important things here that are probably going to be developed through an action plan, hopefully we'll be able to figure out all of this out in the action plan, and we'll be able to talk more specifically about it in some way. So, I will also support at the SDA Club we will support the reform agenda, but it is necessary, it seems to me, and because of the public, it was a little bit about its content to see, because the one where the designers of the agenda have sinned, and I think that in these few things that I've been talking about, in my opinion, were wrong, and that in this action plan, we should sort of correct it, so that in such a way the citizens of BiH, through the implementation of this reform agenda, have really convinced themselves that, in this way, means in a correct way, a way that protects the citizens of BiH, we can do, through certain compliance with the obligations of BiH, with the economic strength of the country in which we are going to live and not as someone says to go away, it will always go away, but those who remain, and their children will be able to live in a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7743	Thank you. Replica Aleksandra Pandurević, after which we give a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7744	I thank the chairman. I'm going to be really brief, with the intention of not being here with some maybe false notions that the reform agenda is one way to treat one another, another way to another entity. And the esteemed chairman, Zvizdić, was on one of the commissions, at one of the European Integration Commission's meetings and explained why these differences are, for the simple reason that RS has managed to resolve some things sooner because of its simpler constitutional solution. Here you go to the Municipality isočan Ilidža as an investor, you will get a building permit and everything within two days, unfortunately in the Federation it is not because of a more complex structure and therefore only the Federation should implement what has already been done in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7745	Thank you. Here, did you want something?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7746	...proposal, colleague Isaković and I accept two minutes to speak, if you want to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7747	No problem, I was going to suggest, I only have an official meeting with the ambassador here, so I gave for it, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7748	Whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7749	I'll go out, and let's keep your colleague, and let's finish the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7750	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7751	Okay, here's a colleague, uh, here's a hearing from Mirsad Isaković. Keep going and then we'll take a break. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7752	Mr. Isaković has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7753	Thank you. But here I am missing the opportunity to congratulate the chairman on my behalf and on behalf of the Commission for Gender Equality, and here I am taking this opportunity until she's gone. So, this document that we have in front of, on the table in front of us, I think this document should have come to this Parliament long ago and we should have discussed it and given our views. It should have been here, therefore, that we are taking part in making the same thing that we have heard here in Parliament, and there have been many of them we have to admit, to channel them and to refer them to the Council of Ministers, that is, the Coordination Committee which would have, whether or not, listed them. Why do I say that? So, this is an agenda that's since, it's worked out whether the program is from 2015 to 2018, we're currently in the third quarter, so 2015 is absolutely over, and we can't, therefore, achieve anything from 2015, even if we have an action program. What is important, so in 2015 we have 14 government budgets and these same budgets have been adopted in their parliaments and so none of what is in this, in this agreed agenda is acceptable this year. I think it's clear to all of us for these reasons I think this document should have been on, on, on, as a part of the agenda on this Parliament. What I would refer to, so there are a few things, I have to say that it's good to have an agenda and that we will accept this agenda in terms of everything that is on the European path my club, or SBB Club will, therefore, accept. And the European way for us is the way we need to go and so what matters is that this is, we estimate that this document is in that direction. What we have an observation on is, therefore, what we have seen is that there is no in this document is the distribution of public revenue. We know that the problem of public income, at least in this part of the Federation, is very large, that the big problem is also shown by protests in individual cantons, even in the capital here. We heard earlier that Mr. Kožul asked the question of these public revenues, last year the Institute of Social Activities of Mostar provided information where he spent a billion and a hundred thousand tissues, so one canton more than he belonged to. These days we have in one of the daily lists information that one canton has more income than the entire Herzegovian part. So the uneven distribution of income is what's the key to everything. We know that, we have launched initiatives to distribute public revenues, but we have not come across understanding so far. I hope that this revenue allocation agenda will put clearly where the place is, or that the revenues will be distributed evenly where they belong. We have more problems here, population lists problems, population problems, problems where distribution of public income is not put where it needs to be, it does not act stimulatingly on the real sector, it does not act stimulatingly on exporters, so we have a situation where exports are bigger than imports, we have no stimulation, where the real sector is 70% bringing income we have no stimulation etc. etc. Not to mention, because that's already the problem with this law and I think we're going to come across a big... However, in this agenda, nothing has been defined when it comes. What I think is also omitted is gender equality, as the President of the Commission I want to highlight it, because there is no gender equality in this agenda anywhere, is there. 60 There is also no treatment here for the Institute of Greater Financial Discipline, I mean cantonal, federal, so maybe, I'm not sure, and the state budget, but here when we talk about greater financial discipline, I mean companies that from different funds, from different funds, sources of funds that are not paying back, non-refundable loans, which I have written publicly about, here again I want to stress there are companies, companies that don't repay credits, which certain authorities have given to businesses. So it's about suitable businesses. I must point out here that it is also about individual loans that have been returned, which have not been returned, therefore, that have been given to most of the political parties. So the financial discipline here is not particularly mentioned when it comes to the funds already spent, so the return of financial resources must be defined in this document. The third thing to note is that there is no... reform of the banking system here. The reform of the banking system is something that I think is necessary to mention for the simple reason that the prime minister is also in his, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers in his exposé, it seems to me on the side, I noted, 26 clearly said that he would form a development bank and, of course, some ministries that would be common, etc. It doesn't have any of that. But when it comes to the development bank, so we haven't heard from this agenda, and this is a document that means four years from now that it's supposed to be standing, that's the kind of thing. So here, under the fifth, fifth paragraph, we put that there is no word of competence, and competences are therefore the key to what this state cannot deny. We are therefore constantly present at the departure of people, young people, therefore, capable, educated, who leave this country. I'm afraid these people don't go for some economic reasons, but simply to run for reasons because they're not in 100,000 jobs, so they find a chance to escape, find another opportunity in another country or another part of the world. Thank you, that would be what, I think I was brief, a little over two minutes, Mr. Zaimović, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7754	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7755	As far as this reform agenda is concerned, this text that we have received, of course without an action plan, although we have clearly pointed out to me, I wonder if the Council of Ministers does not understand the request of the House of Representatives to deliver an action plan, this, how will then understand all of this here in this agenda, and in particular implement it. And that's exactly what I want to, uh, get connected to, because there's not so much question here whether this text, which we have in front of us, is right or wrong. In its original form this is even a relatively good demanding and ambitious but undeniably good trekst in its original form. However, the real question is whether those in charge of its implementation, for the implementation of this agenda, understand the meaning of the concepts in this text in general and have the capacity to implement this. I'm sure, responsibly saying that they don't understand and that they don't have that capacity, because to understand then they wouldn't send us a translation like this. And this is a translation from English and in many places an incredibly literal translation of a term that when translated into our language means nothing. On page 5, at the very bottom – both entities, cantons and Brcko District will work more vigorously to develop a proposal for a voluntary retirement scheme. What are voluntary transfer schemes? In our language in 61 all three versions or in all three languages, as you wish, the scheme is a sketch, and now you're out of this, if you don't know what it's all about, you have, do you get the impression, that someone's going to do some sketches for voluntary transfer. In English, however, the word scheme also means sketches, but it also means plan and this is a well-known construction in English can even be concluded that this is written by a person coming from the British speech area, because they have these plans for voluntary retirement called.... But the word term - the scheme cannot be translated, or “shin” cannot be translated into our language as a scheme, because then it becomes a sketch rather than a plan. That's one thing. On page 3 at point 9, we have a sentence where it says – among other things there is a need to even the level of investment. To direct the investment ground, this is not the termology of our language, is it, and in English it is...., and it already makes sense, but in our language to level the investment field, I am sure that nowhere in any other document in BiH you will find a termology of leveling the investment field. And now I, the question is to me, when Denis Zvizdić, the prime minister, who has exhibited his exposés here for two hours, from whom he has not yet implemented anything, when he delivers a translation like this, shows me that he doesn't understand the original, and then delivers this and commits to do this, so how will he implement this when he doesn't know what it means. And if he knew what this meant, he wouldn't have delivered it. And so now I say again, in the original form this may be good, it's ambitious, it's demanding, but it's good, but we in the Council of Ministers don't have people now who are able to implement this, because we don't have people who are able to translate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7756	Thank you. Breaking until 3:15, closing the debate and taking a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7757	Since we have a quorum, we continue with the work of today's session. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue 01,02-50-14-995/15 of 14.07.2015. The report was delivered in the procedure on 14 July 2015, the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on Report 26/08/2015, the Report was adopted and was proposed to the House for adoption. I'm opening a debate. Representative Dušanka Majkić, please. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7759	Thank you, Chairman. Here I am, in terms of the responsible person who acted as chairman of this Commission during that period, would actually be good to talk about it occasionally, because it is especially in the face of reminding that this Commission was formed in accordance with the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Act, which was adopted in 2009, as the last condition for BiH to get visa liberalisation. It hasteningly that this liberalisation has become lost in the light of the fact that we do not have enough experience in this matter, but we have made a law that has become its own purpose and in which competences and the Commission are, as well as the Agency, unspecified that it is practically impossible to see in which segment of obligations are fulfilled both. So it's about the Anti-Corruption Agency, and many of them are mixing it with the Anti-Corruption Agency, we're talking about the Corruption Prevention Agency. Secondly, it is so, if the Commission's work that was done so would have been so done that it had complicated life to the end, we have three representatives, MPs from the House of Representatives, three delegates from the House of Peoples, two members from the academic community and one member from the NGO sector. And we are always looking for a quorum for the Commission to meet and hold a session, the mandates have been unevenly deployed so that holding meetings has become the main problem in part due to the disease of one member of Parliament, and in part because the two members of the Commission have expired their mandates. In any case, what was actually a key problem in the work of this body to monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and to inform Parliament about it? I must say that those are the years when the Agency took the first steps and that the Commission had very much sensitivity to accompany her work. I remind myself that a great deal of time has passed since it was formed, when the Law was passed, until the time the Agency began its work, and at the very beginning part when it was neither human, nor materially qualified to take over the activities given to it, and it seems to me that perhaps only now, and its work will be at the next point, that it is only now slowly taking over the functions given to it, although I am sure that the Law should be changed urgently, which we tried on several occasions, but this Law is under direct review by the EU's representatives, in fact the European Commission, we have been on several meetings with them and at no meeting have been prepared to open the issue, although all the reasons we have been instructed to make the fight against corruption in BiH more efficient. Things haven't changed, because the scale of BiH's perception of corruption remains high, we're not except that we could wait, even in 2013, the Commission gave a negative position, a negative report on the Agency's work because we felt that the fight against corruption was not sufficiently recognised in public, that many of the measures that were recorded in the original 2009 strategy were missing. – 2014, and the akcion Plan that followed all this was so incomprehensible that the Agency itself could not cope with this. So, we had, we have a law that I hope someone in the next session will deal with and bring about the changes that will make this Agency get all the necessary mechanisms to do what it does. So, what exactly were the only duties of the Commission? He's following for the Agency. What does it mean to follow the work? To this extent, you must not enter any operational powers, and you must follow the work. How can you only follow the work? So you'll get the report and analyze the report. The report we asked to work twice a year, and based on it, we analyzed the Agency's work and saw all its initial torments from that first step, until today, when seen, it saw significant progress in the work so far. What else is hers? It shall initiate the appointment procedure of the Director and the Deputy Director. We did it once, and it is no longer done, so we wait for the mandate to expire, to make another choice. We didn't have a case like that. It discusses reports on the Agency's work, it is the only serious topic which the Commission is dealing with and is ultimately considering the audit reports of this Agency. I think that in the next period with all this capacity that the Agency has made, with the full staffing it has done, with a new 63 strategy that has been completed, that they have adopted much better elements for further work, and I hope that, as soon as possible, the new commission will insist on making a new bill and removing all the dilemmas and ambiguities that have followed our work in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7760	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7761	I thank the chairman. I pointed out this at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission at which we discussed the report on the work of this Commission on the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I pointed out that Mrs Pandurević, who was also with me at the session of the Constitutional Commission and who wrote this report, however, was not drawn up at the session and therefore I offered a conclusion. In Chapter 3 of Section 1 of this Report, the inability to participate Mr Tihić at meetings at the same time meant that the Committee regularly worked on the edge of the quorum, as according to the business provisions of each session there were at least seven members present. I don't think there's really any need to name Mr. Tihić's rickets, I think it's inappropriate. This House has, in the past nine months, been regularly working on the edge of the quorum, the SBB Club has pointed to this, but we have never pointed to the names of people, this one, and this is particularly inappropriate and unjust in cases of disease. So I offered this conclusion – that this point 1 should be taken out and that the current points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this same chapter would become, of course, points 1, 2, 3 and 4. I think this is going to come up with a little bit more understanding than it was on the Constitutional Commission, where nobody really got involved in the debate, it's simply adopted a report in this form, but really don't do these things in the future, you just have to have a little sensitivity on these issues. Also, just another remark, which is that this report was made in March of this year, I received information from the secretary of this Commission that the Secretary made this report in March, but Mrs Pandurević, as I see it, passed it on to this House as chairman of the Commission only on 13 July and I really do not see any justification that the report that was made in March only 13th of July was forwarded to the College for adoption. Why four months? And as I was informed there were no changes, so in those four months nothing changed, it could have been much, much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7762	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, please. And Dušanka Majkić, I apologize to the representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7763	I would just ask Mr. Arnaut, this is the fact that he writes here, the question is ethical if you should write the name of the person who was sick and who died, maybe you should just say that... the MP who was sick, but you don't need to mention the name. But I think it's a mistake that changes the essence of the report itself and this change it's the only thing I don't think he's wearing, I agree with you, just that, in that sense, it's about a messenger who was sick and who died, and that doesn't say his name, because 64 it's a fact, it's true, there's no reason for us to hide that truth. So, and you don't have to mention the name, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7764	Replica Damir Arnaut, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7765	I respect your observation, certainly, but let me say that it's really not a fact, because the quorum is 7 members, one member was sick and you still have 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7766	/not a mriphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7767	I know, but the Commission wasn't working on the edge of the quorum because of a member's illness, but because two of the mandates have expired, that's what I'm talking about. So, it can't really stand, it's not a fact that the Commission was working on the edge of the quorum due to the disease of this member, who died in the meantime, but the fact that the Commission was working on the edge of the quorum due to the end of the term of office of other members, that's what I'm talking about. So, I really don't see the need, this, because here it really stands, I have a Croatian version of why - The commission worked regularly on the edge of the quorum because, the inability of Mr. Tihić's participation in the sessions at the same time meant that the Commission regularly worked on the edge of the quorum, it's not the fact that these others are, so I'm saying, that's why I suggested that this was just taken out.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7768	Thank you. Debate Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7769	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And as I said in my first discussion at this session, in which the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, Articles 70, 71 and 167, was completely violated, I stress this in order to enter the record, because when someone is going to read this. According to this item of the agenda, I will read it, sir, because the Rules of Procedure are the law, the Constitution for this House, and the disrespect of what is the Constitution of this House, which means that in the further procedure, many decisions may be reconsidered, but since then. A report on the Commission's work to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, since 1996 in this country, which is called BiH constantly in every statement, please read, see, you have them on all the media and today, of all the ambassadors, of all the international officials, of all of them always in their vocabulary, there is a word in their speech – corrupt, corruption in BiH. And don't lie down they go away, and that word of corruption inherits it next, and that's how it's been spinning around here for 20 years. But none of them will answer how, in what way and as far as that flossula has entered and into their being, were they also those who generated corruption in BiH. Of course, the Commission did not give such an answer. Mrs. Majkić, I'll give you examples, does anyone know how much money the USAID has entered BiH? Does anyone know how much he has today and where that money has melted? So I'll tell you, 65 let's say a loan for that and 6 million and something, it's about Trebinje, it's a pawn country in Kalnovico that's not worth you, that money millions, but it's worth nothing, because it's the same as craters on the moon and it serves nothing. And that land is their property today, but it serves nothing, but there's no money. Or do you have here in front of our Alta Center building, there you have it, Bond buried by a cornerstone, a gentleman, under the alleged signs, an Amerikanac, took a 30-million-dollar loan from the Hypo Bank and disappeared from BiH. Then the Hypo Bank sold that it had never been publicly published in the BiH media for sale, but by selling directly to someone in Vienna, for as long as, and in what way, no one knows. I'll give you examples like that, Mrs. Majkić. I'll give you dozens. I'm in the middle of a situation, so I'm in the middle of this thing. Ask yourself why the water line in Banja Luka isn't finished, why the water purifier isn't finished, why in Prijedor, what's going on with the purifier in Bijeljina? But not that, the Federation is even worse, how did the money for the water supply of Brcko go?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7770	I apologize to the honourable representative, can we know at which point of the agenda are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7771	Corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7772	What does corruption mean, can you tell us what point
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7773	The report on the work of the Commission, there are no concrete things in this report, we are dealing with marginals, we are dealing with peripheral matters, imaginary things, so the time of the phantom company that is formally established in Vienna gets 5 million advances and immediately goes to Vienna under bankruptcy and Brcko has no water lines. And no one knows it in this country or pretends they don't know it in this country, so time has been the water purifier in the livestock instead of the agreed price already cost three times, so the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Sarajevo Clinical Centre from the agreed 3 have already come to jihy hi million, so in Bihać the water purifier is contracted, given advances, the purifier has not been able to give you dozens of such examples in this country. Therefore, those who deal with these matters have to deal with concrete things, can't have an ashtray in this House cost 14 marks, and the same kind of ashtray in RS institutions a thousand and some marks, the same. I know, I know, because we were getting them, so the company I was working with back then, me. I have been employed by a company that has been supplied for this Parliament, for this, and not for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, from the same supplier, a hundred times more expensive paid there than here, very interesting, etc. So someone in this country has to take the dysgines into their hands because we're talking about reducing consumption, this, this, that, and nobody's taking care of where the real assets in this country are spilling away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7774	Aleksandra Pandurević is a representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Backović just Majkić read clearly what the Commission's powers are, so that the Commission can write that in its report what you are asking for, so first we need 66 to change the law, let's change the law. And all corrupt behaviors, distinguished colleague Backoviću, for whom you have knowledge, need to report to this Agency and show your own and affirm others in this way to BiH citizens that everything they know about the Agncija's applications. I'll tell you, here's the chance I have right now, the Honorable Director knows, I'm two cases of corruption in institutions that I've received on anonymous reports, since I'm not a prosecutor, nor a judge, and I don't know if that's true, but I've sent the memos I've received to the Agency. And in both cases, the Honorable Director informed him, he said -- here, so I can't speak about what it is, that there are indications of corrupt behaviour, forwarded it to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In one case, the D.A. informed us that the investigation was open. And I think let's just act like legalists and help this agency do that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7776	Thank you. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7777	I thank Mrs. Pandurević, we're on the same background and I'm directly answering you, 11 times myself I went to the prosecution, I've made my knowledge, I've given the papers and made statements to the Agency, I really haven't, now you see this publicly speaking cargo to my back, 11 times I've left, and besides I've made personal complaints in 8 cases, never on any of these things I've never received an answer or anything that happens. The total amount of funds is worth several hundred million marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7778	Thank you. At this point, I don't see any more complaints. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2014, issue 05/8-04-562/15 of 14.04.2015, with Opinion of the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2014, issue 05/8-04-562/15 of 28.07.2015 On 14 April 2015, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption Fight submitted the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's Work Report for 2014. On 28 July 2015, the Commission delivered the Report to the Houses, with an opinion on it, the Committee supported the Report with the conclusions proposed therein, and decided to deliver the Opinion together with the Report to the colleagues of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. The report proposes the adoption of the following conclusions: 1. The report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2014. 67 2. Full support is given to the Agency's further efforts to prevent corruption and co-ordinate the fight against corruption with the aim of preventing corruption and coordinating the fight against corruption. 3. The BiH Council of Ministers will adopt a anti-corruption strategy for the 2015 period without delay. – 2019 and action plan for its implementation. 4. The BiH Council of Ministers will adopt the amendments and additions to the Agency's internal organisation regulation as soon as possible. 5. It is responsible for the Agency to draw up an analysis of the Agency's Act and, where appropriate, prepare amendments and additions to the Agency's Act which will be referred to the adoption procedure through the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7780	Thank you. If you allow me only to attach myself to the Commission Report, since it is relevant for this Report, then, the Commission report says that the work of the Agency is not sufficiently publicised. And then we see the Agency's report, we see that last year, because this report for the entire 2014 year, had a total of 75 applications. Therefore, this fully confirms what the Commission has concluded, and that is that this Agency is absolutely not noticeable in public. Because if he only gets 75 applications over a year of which, I think 15 finds they're unfounded, so we're talking about 60 applications. This agency has a director and two deputies and I see in their report that they hired the chief of staff. So, here's at least four employees, I don't know, and it should be in this report of yours how many employees you have, but you have at least four, because I see a signed director and two deputies, we have a chief of staff. So, those four, if they were the only ones, I know they're not, but I hope I get an answer for how many employees you have in total, and if you were only four, that means that the four of you would just take 15 items every year, which is extremely small. About one object a month means you're solving. And I say again, I wonder how many total employees you have, because the total number of reports with indications of corrupt behavior 75 really doesn't justify the existence of that agency. We absolutely need an agency like this, but if the Agency's Labour Monitoring Commission itself notices that, or finds that the Agency itself is almost undetectable, then the question is what can be done to correct it, and I do not see it in your Report, unfortunately. And I think that, taking into account the Commission's observations, but also taking into account the number of applications on page 52 of your report, I think that this should be one of the primary tasks for you to be more publicised to call on you to encourage, as one of the previous discussions said, to encourage the public to address you. The content of the application also shows that the most concerns are competition procedures, the work of judicial authorities, the work of lawyers and court experts and educational irregularities, all four extremely important topics. However, if the applications refer to this excessively, then the question of what Mr Backović was just talking about earlier is what about the reports of corruption in public institutions and so on. So, that's not here at least there's not when we look at your report, there's no, applications mostly don't apply to it, applications are mostly about competitive procedures, of course what makes people sick. And then people who feel this personal injustice, I guess 68 themselves try to inform themselves what their possible steps are and then find that there's a body called the Corruption Prevention Agency and so on, and then they turn to it. But what I absolutely agree with, when it comes to the Commission's own report, is that the work of this agency is undetectable and that it is necessary to work on it to justify the number of employees, because now I say again, even if there are only four and that is too much when the number of applications is received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7781	I'd like to thank the representative. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7782	So this would be practically based on each other, and I would really like to start by saying that colleagues should remember once again that this is about the Anti-Corruption Agency, the criminal act of corruption contained in the BiH Criminal Law and the judiciary should work under the BiH Criminal Law. This is prevention. This means that the Agency must establish mechanisms to make plans to successfully combat corruption. It's a long way. It's not, here I've noticed, found, we're going to trial. And at the end of what happens, imagine what it looks like right now in this case. What happens when the Agency gets an application for the act of corruption? That's where the story ends. The agency doesn't have any mechanism, those who take it can repack it and send it to the D.A. and they never know what happened. I was just saying before what the law is, this law doesn't make any sense, and the Agency is like this, it's going to get a lot of work to do, and in the end, no effect can turn out. We must, BiH must know whether existing legislation ensures that it is successfully coping with corruption. Do we have all this in the law? The Corruption Prevention Agency will not solve the problems Mr Backović is talking about. She won't handle it. That's not her job either. She teaches institutions how to behave to start fighting it, to prevent them from doing it. And we can't say she didn't do anything. When I remember that period they started with, it was terrible. But now that you've analyzed this, the Agency says it has reached this level of operationality for the exercise of its basic powers and employs 23 of the systematicised 29 employees. So that's something. It's already some power that she can be, where do you see it? Well, you can tell by the number of BiH institutions that have made integrity plans and made them think about how to fight corruption. Materially technically trained for further work, but we did her a bear service that we transferred her to deal with what's called the conflict of interest law issue, although it was excellently done by the Central Election Commission, it was Parliament that made a mistake, gave it, it still isn't, I see it hasn't been mastered, that still these people are sitting in the CEC, I don't know how the Agency is paying or not, I expect the Director to talk about it when it does, so we've made a mess on that issue. It's a regulation on the internal organisation of the work and it's made so that it's customized, so it can function on it. Finally, the Strategy, which was implemented and the Action Plan 2009-2014 was completed, which was so designed that the entire passports were probably prescribed, because of this liberalisation of the visa regime we all hurried and someone was making, so the whole passports were incomprehensible no one could follow how the action was even conducted under the Action Plan and the Strategy, so it was finished. The agency wasn't even able to compare 69 to where we came from because Transparency was doing it on her behalf. A new strategy has been adopted by people who know this matter well. Some of the members of the institutions, the largest institutions in BiH were included, and as I can see in that part, it seems to me to be the greatest success this agency has done. What's left of the problem is the issue of her permanent accommodation. I think the Joint Jobs Service, that it is said that 500 squares will be provided as soon as possible for the Agency to move in, get the right space for work and continue to work even further. So it can't be said that no step has been made, but it shouldn't be expected from the Agency to arrest, it's not her task, it's not her role, and it's what's prescribed and what needs to be further prescribed, because we can't just give her the application and then she doesn't have any position on the subject, it needs to be settled by law. So, I think we should really support this 2014 report, the Agency, I hope that the next report for 2015 will be significantly better than this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7783	Thank you. Debate, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7784	I thank the chairman. You see, the results of someone's work are measurable, very simple, in scale. We don't need to make up any accusations or excuses for work. Is the degree of corruption since 2009, when this Agency was formed, i.e. the adoption of the Act on the Agency, smaller or higher. If the smaller agency gave the results and justified the establishment. And it's not true that this is just the Agency for Prevention, this is the Agency for Prevention and Coordination. I even think that this job of coordination is more important to her than prevention, if you ask me, of course the law has told what her job is, but I think there's a bigger problem in this country than in prevention. It can't be said that progress is that we have 23 employees and an increase in corruption. It can be said that an assumption has been made that the Agency can do a more successful job as prescribed by law, and if that is an assumption that in the next few years we will get results, here I will support it. So I'll say, okay, here we were six years old, in six years we made assumptions that we could work. It is a little long to make assumptions, but it's good as it is. So, I don't think the Agency has done everything it can, I don't understand the role of the Commission again, whether it's her role to defend the Agency or whether it's her role to control the Agency's work. In particular, I will now comment on one conclusion and I will not take more time, because I think I will talk about corruption in this country where every day for at least an hour on the media you have different stories about various corruption affairs, loses meaning until they start to produce some results, but I will read Conclusion 5, which says – To be in charge of the Agency to make an analysis of the Agency's Act, prepare, if necessary, the amendments and additions to the Agency's Act, which will be sent to the adoption procedure through the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work. I can't believe someone thinks that the Agency is going to make a critical law and refer it to the procedure and say that here we haven't done well, partly because of the law, and partly for some 70 other reasons. Finally, it is the Council of Ministers who is in charge, primarily through the Strategy, which is crucial in this area and not the Agency, and especially not the Commission. Therefore, if someone is to be charged with preparing changes to the law, then he needs the Council of Ministers. Why would the Agency refer the law to the procedure by means of the Commission? So why don't you refer the Council of Ministers to the procedure of the Agency's Law? I think this way, as suggested here, we certainly have one good guarantee that we won't get a good law in the process, so we won't get a good law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7785	/No microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7786	My Koleginica, Majkić, I suggest you and I, yes, and you,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7787	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7788	Turn on the microphone so that together with a direct TV broadcast like this we have a duel, because I've really listened to you with full attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7789	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7790	And if I had listened, say what I say about what you have spoken of, I hope you have noticed it, and not only to you, but to anyone else. So, I think I'm almost convinced that this way we won't get the Agency Act that will correct all the shortcomings that have been observed so far. For this reason, I suggest that the rapporteur change the 5th. The conclusion in which the section of the bill will prepare amendments and supplement the law, will prepare an analysis to the Council of Ministers on the basis of which the Council of Ministers will propose amendments and additions to the Agency's Law. I wouldn't comment any further because I'm going to produce a replica then, so I'm going to have to replicate, and then my colleague's going to replicate again and so on. I don't think I've made any remarks about the Commission's work but the Agency's work, so I expect the Agency's director to comment on what I've been talking about. I sincerely hope that either in this way that is proposed here or in any other way, we will come up with a solution that will help us get the percentages that are in front of us, which are linked to corruption, to be smaller, and that in this country we are talking about today, and that today, according to the analyses of all those who are relevant, they do not come first for this reason that we are talking about here today. Thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7791	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandsra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7792	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I, maybe here's a colleague, Novaković, to explain a little bit what the motive of the commission is, and we unanimously adopted that record, why should the Agency do law-making? Because the Agency is the first independent body, particularly independent of the original authority. The Agency shall not report to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is, let's say an equal body compared to the Agency. The Agency is only responding to this Parliament. And it's the Agency, if you want corruption, that's exactly what it is about the executive and not the legislative authority. And it's the Agency who's supposed to be monitoring the Council of Ministers. And then the Council of Ministers, regardless of what I believe to be the current Council of Ministers, let's give him a chance not to have corruption there, but there are some corrupt officials, officials, must be meaning, no executive authority is immune to all this, and they need to write the law on their own. No, I have to, today I asked the Honorable Mr. Director, who was offered an example of Serbia, whether the Agency has even delivered an opinion to our Executive Authority, the Council of the Minsitarians, on laws that, at least in their segment, have a fight against corruption, let's say the Public Procurement Act. He told me not to. And one such agency recently collapsed in Serbia by a law adopted by the assembly majority, it was, in reference to the Law on the privatization of the property of abandoned villas and so on. And the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption said this law has corrupt elements and controlled the legislative authority as well. That's why we think, besides this agency is professional, not politically colored. And who can do better and make the law than they do? I don't think anyone can.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7793	Thank you. The replica of Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7794	...to my colleague Pandurević for what she said. So, here the problem is just to understand well,... delicately, suddenly some commission appears, which everyone places in Parliament's working body, is not, an independent body established by Parliament to monitor the work of the Agency. So, that we understand. Why is she making those motions for amending the law? Because nobody knows better than her. There's no one here, because she deals with corruption every day. The European Commission told us, this is the only law you can't change on your own. This is the only law in which we demand to be present when that decision is made. And maybe now is the time to talk about it. So don't talk fairy tales now, what a council of ministers. The council of ministers the Agency controls. I think it's, uh, we've got good enough intentions for everyone to get things settled on that plan. We need to move in that direction now, and I hope the director himself will say a few words that will help all of us figure out where the current Agency is. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7795	Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7796	I don't know what my colleagues and colleagues are talking about, or talking about fighting corruption or the Agency. We seem to be talking about different things. I agree that no one knows better against corruption, you shouldn't know better than the Agency, but this is about the Agency's Law, not the Anti-Corruption Act. Who proposed the first Act on the Agency? I don't suppose it came from the Holy Spirit. So someone had to suggest it. I don't think anything else but that whoever did it and based on the analysis the Agency is going to make, makes a law. Okay, maybe I'm wrong, maybe the Agency will make a better law. It doesn't make sense to me that they will, but here, I don't have any particular reasons, and they don't have any particular reasons to be angry and react in this way. What I find very indicative is the results of the Agency's work, and that's why I'm saying it. Guys, there's not a lot of 23 people. If the Agency needs something, some additional powers, to successfully do a job that says it should work, let's discuss it, but let's not discuss it in conditions when we have growth every year, means the growth of corruption at all levels. So let's not discuss it in a way that we will do it in the future by analysing something and we haven't analyzed it in six years, and then we will propose a law through the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7797	Time. Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7798	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, you know, it's very difficult to separate these two points when speaking or on the Agency's Report as well as on the Commission's Report. I would, for example, refer to two conclusions of this Commission which said that the Agency is a completely unrecognizable public body. This is number one, and number two would support this conclusion that they are asking the Joint Administrative Commission to abolish the remuneration for working in this Commission. I suppose they may even have thought of all the other commissions that fall under that compensation, but here I would be particularly satisfied with what I would say is a pretty good, really good conclusion. When it comes to the Agency's work report, it appears that the report highlights education and prevention. Nothing would be disputed if our society didn't eat corruption and that it actually needed stronger activities to focus on fighting corruption. Of course we should also work on education and work on prevention, but how else do we explain the complete ineffectiveness of all these institutions dealing with this problem, because if there's about 4 billion money somewhere, let's say, in that area of public procurement, and that a quarter of that money disappears. Well, it's clear that corruption is a very serious problem and that we don't have a perspective unless we fight this corruption, that's what everyone tells us. So they say this is what strangers say, so they kind of figured out to put it in their pocket, so in one, there's to put 73 in their other pocket but to throw it behind this other one's backs, and it says we can't possibly understand it. So that's the thing that became a minor thing of an anecdote when it comes to the Bosnian Herzegian society and the Bosnian Herzegovic society's disease. What about corruption applicants? Those who report corruption, look how they pass. They are completely marginalized or isolated, marginalized and faced with existential problems, both these individuals and their families. So that's an extremely serious problem. No one's talking about it. My impression is, therefore, in the opening section that this report specialises that education and evaluation, so all that participates in different international projects, I don't know how to make strategies, my impression is that the more strategies we have, the more participation we have in international projects, that we have more corruption. So that way of working isn't good. Something essential needs to be changed in this work. Do those who work at that agency complain that they're being reduced constantly, that they don't have the instruments. Well, good thing they're doing that job. It should definitely be determined whether we want to face this corruption, whether we want to reduce corruption, it is difficult to say that corruption is eliminated. Here I think it's simply an impossible goal, but to reduce it if it's done seriously, it's quite certain that it can be achieved. Well, it's not like we're the only country in the world that can't cope with shrinking into some, let's say, reasonable frameworks that as much as they don't ruin the state's budgets as they do in BiH. So you can imagine what funds have been stolen if you just take this assessment of this amount of funds to disappear, and given that it's over a period of 20 years, so imagine those funds that have stayed in the Budget of BiH, so I don't know if there's any problem we're having right now. So, if these people at the Agency don't understand or those who founded this Agency, and we don't explain ourselves here who's in charge, whether it's an independent, independent body, the fact is that the problem is serious and that the problem must be seriously addressed and that Parliament must stand behind the functioning of the Agency. And I think that the Commission could have been a little bit more correct and more concrete, but here I have not appeared at the previous point, and I wouldn't want to talk about it, but this is the thing, which I call on everyone not who can contribute that this problem really comes down to some of the frameworks that BiH needs right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7799	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7800	I would also like to thank Madam Chairman for this session which is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, Articles 70, 71 and 167. I'll say a few words again per agenda point six. Obviously, we all forget here that the Agency's Law does not determine its work but radifies the other laws that apply in this country. We obviously forget it. At the state level, we have, here's the framework law on public procurement. 74 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. Just a little bit with those who control the aliens and the application of that law, talk to them and you'll see that it's actually a framework law because cantons, entities, Brcko District, they all act on their own. It's a fact of state, Mrs. Majkić, I've just cited examples, and here's the plumbing...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7802	Please don't have a dialogue, you have the right to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7803	Don't tell me then, so it's a fact. The municipalities in their own order. The law that should be is a law that will embrace globally, not a law of jurisdiction, but a law of jurisdiction. A small example – I, as director of the company, have by the Supervisory Board in my company, for example, is not that but an example, the right to direct use of funds by 50.oo. In a public company called XY has the right to 70, the other has the right to 10,000, there are up to five in the fifth, and I read that there are up to 200,000 in one hospital. Look at the size of the diapazons and the differences for direct use of funds. And there's nothing you can do about it, because he has a right to direct bargaining. So it's not that, and then a million-to-five out of 200,000 is broken. And it's all a direct deal. And then a million-dollar tender breaks down, and every month he's doing a hundred grand every month, and he hasn't broken it again. And so on forever. So here's a series of laws that need to be changed, a series, and they have to be revised. It's not just a law that treats your jurisdiction. Besides, it's not just your jurisdiction to corruption, the law that will define the co-operation of you and now, let's see if there's anyone, who's going to list all those who deal with this business in this country. The entitetski MUP, the prosecutions, the cantonal MUPs, the agencies, ha ha, that's what there is today, we in this country shouldn't have any corruption in any case, how many of those that are, and it says in the laws, it says. Take the law in the RS, take the law federal, take the cantonal, take the jurisdiction of the prosecution, take the Code of Criminal Procedure and take the Criminal Code, and everything will be clear to you, from the SIPA, the OSA, I don't know anymore, I don't know how many of these agencies anymore. We're a country on this, on three and a few million people, basically how many agencies we have, probably all for some agency working, because it's impossible, it's impossible to work as many as there are. So we need to find a way for this Agency to live, but in fact, in the end, as the coordination body of all of what I've just listed and said, because there are too many of those who deal with the team, and then audits. And the audits are the ones that should point to where corrupt activities exist. And that's one distance now and not counting. I propose that the Council of Ministers and gentlemen in the Commission look at this, take a little look at this, and make a concrete proposal in which this Agency should be the coordinating body of all bodies for which, I do not know the number, which have jurisdiction in this area. Otherwise, they'll be coming through, and we'll never get out of the car of real corruption that, whether we want it or not, and we all know it here, is very exposed to the whole of BiH. This has nothing to do with entities, cantons, or Distrikt, this has to do with 75 of those who manage public funds. It's just like that. Because someone has to explain to me how in Sarajevo all the electrostubs are taken by one company without any compensation or payment, and we became a city, who was in the Arab countries knows what it looks like, a billion wires from one pillar, and you don't know what it's for, but go to the settlements and see what's going on. I wonder if it could have happened without the transgage. If there's a thousand wires, and they connect houses, they connect objects, and the law says exactly there must be underground installations. Officially, we make public companies work, dig, install optical cables, these spread out and spread our network, it's the same thing in Banja Luka from that company that you know, I mention Sarajevo because we're here, I have pictures, identical, and they spread wires, they spin them, they do whatever they want and whatever they want. We laugh at it and nod our heads, they go into Mostar. Now they're starting in Mostar to spread wires from the pillars, and I have these pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7804	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7805	Dear colleagues of the chair, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. It is difficult to be authentic now after such a specific and impressive poetic inspiration by a respected colleague, Backović, but I wanted to say, I think it would be good if you had united the debate on these two points of the agenda. Also, this, because in many cases we have talked through one and the other points, so on this Agency, it would be much better if we had discussed at today's or another session and discussed the action plan against corruption from 2015 to 2019, and it would be best for us to discuss this next to this, so when it comes to this Agency, we also have a report on the work of key institutions, so security-investigation institutions, prosecutors and the Court of Justice and the High Court, and then we could identify the problems facing BiH at a comprehensive session. I'm glad the Minister of Security is here. What I can say is that this report is as comprehensive as it is, that the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency in BiH has done what the law in this situation allows, and what the Parliamentary Assembly would have to do, therefore, to give strong support to the implementation of the law and the work programme of this Agency. At the same time, it would be extremely important to remove all possible causes of corruption from key laws in BiH, which is therefore from the Electoral Law, the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on the financing of political escorts, only then would we send a strong message that all other institutions in BiH will do everything to eliminate the forms of the dramatic state of corruption which, therefore, is a thought noun for progress in BiH. Corruption, incompetence and absolute obedience are the basic characteristics of often the staff rankings from the lowest to the highest institutions at all levels of government in BiH. It's a key problem, if we don't do anything against it, so that the security structures and the ministry stop talking already, the prosecution with arguments to press charges, and the court to rule, we will completely collapse. The agency would have to do more, to provide it with what is necessary, therefore, from personnel, spatial, financial resources and to do much more compared to the period so far. I do not agree with some views, I believe that the Council of Ministers has full capacity to propose possible changes that could be in line with the constitutional structure of the country acceptable to all in order for the Agency to have jurisdiction in a higher degree than it was, 1/3 of the current composition 76 of the House of Representatives was also in 2009 in the Parliamentary Assembly when we adopted this Law, we know from what it was conditioned and how it came to be, we need to remove some barriers in order to make greater progress in this regard. I also think it is necessary to create a higher level of protection for persons who report, so alarmers reporting corruption cases and hitting key cases from, we know where they are going, that it is in public procurement, that at different levels, only then this agency cannot do so, but the Agency, together with our commission, or the Commission, whose leadership is, must clearly differentiate cases of conflict of interest in BiH, eliminate any elected and appointed official in accordance with the law if it is in this regard. What do we expect from these other forms of petty forms of corruption if we don't send a clear message? I think we should work together in that sense. And one more thing that is very important, we are neither USKOK nor Serbia's Anti-Corruption Agency, that's the problem, but I don't see why it would be a problem for key people from this agency with strong support from the highest legislative body to be recognizable in BiH. They, beware, any thought in Croatia at USKOK is the fear of everyone, the Agency for Bobra Anti-Corruption, I am sorry to talk about neighbouring countries, in Serbia when it points to an example he is absolutely implying to be respected. What's the problem is that we say it's just prevention, so we stop, and the prevention and implementation of these recommendations to the Ministry, and each makes written material and thousands and millions of pages, and we don't say that the problem is in coordination this and this investigative agency doesn't do that and so on and so on and so on. Why are we ashamed that we have the most spectacular arrests of corrupt and criminal activities, and we don't have any convictions? Please, who's supposed to do this? Is that interference in the work of the Court and the D.A.? What do we expect from the Agency, if the Agency does not clearly express its relationship with this and why is it a problem for Parliament to make that clear? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7806	Thank you. Representative, replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7807	In fact, I thank my colleague, in the course of my discussion, my colleague, I've forgotten something, and that's the Agency, and the Federation is now forming something similar to USKOK. Are we familiar with that? That's another one, another one of those pills we already have, we're peppers a little bit longer to add it, or it's an agency for another entanglement of similar personnel of the ruling political structures. That's very interesting, so we have to talk about it openly, another one in progress, and it's not clear to me that people don't read, let's say you, so the contest is for the director and the agency is out. So, we need to form a federal jump and now we have a jump, I'd rather say we're forming another jump that's going to bite us good in the pocket and for everything that means more of those things, worse and worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7808	Thank you. The hearing of Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7809	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I see this agency as I understand the Law, that it is an institution that is responsible for, along with others.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7810	A colleague of Backović's, a reminder.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7811	together with others to establish a system, I mean the Parliamentary Assembly and this House, set up a system to prevent corruption and coordinate the fight against corruption, not as a body with operational competences. Because in the case of the preparation or execution of a criminal offence, of course there are competent police agencies, prosecutors and courts, of course, and they, if anyone reports it to them, are obliged as an institution and as citizens under criminal law to report any such crime. And we passed the '10 law, here's four years' work, already five more than a half, but I think, unfortunately, Parliament, and then others don't support this agency enough, and then it's a questionable and real commitment by creating a system of prevention and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I'll explain why, why I say that this agency has no support. And namely, if we're essentially committed to this, and I don't doubt this House, then we're going to give them a little more support, not because of individuals or people who are employed there, but because respecting everything that their colleagues and colleagues have said, I see that we're essentially committed to both prevention and coordination, and, of course, through the work of the police, the prosecution and the courts. If you look at Report page 11 behind subtitle 4.11. The establishment of a system of integrity plans, monitoring and co-ordination of their adoption, you can see in the second paragraph, you can think of it as an amazing thing for me, that the BiH Council of Ministers held at the 104th session on 08.07.2014 concluded that all BiH institutions are in charge of continuing co-operation with the Agency in the process of developing and implementing action plans against corruption and integrity plans. It is a legal obligation, and they had to complain to the Council of Ministers, so when they approved, they put the agenda on the agenda, and so they concluded which institutions, I don't know which, at the level of the BiH state, undertake that they are obliged to co-operate with them. So is the Council of Ministers' strong conclusion or the law this House has passed? Of course it's stronger law, but apparently some of these institutions, of the bosses, won't respect it, spend it, and then he has to go there with his people and ask the Council of Ministers and Prime Ministers for it – de rich, bring me this conclusion because someone won't cooperate with me and will not implement this law. It also makes it impossible for them to implement the law and implement the '09 Strategy and Action Plan. Until '14. How was that? This thing comes from both the review and the text section and the review, here on page 12 in the graphic display of 4.11. and the text below it says that only 19 institutions have started making the Integrated Plan at BiH level by 2014 and that 29 have ended and 27 have never begun. When you add that up, it's 75, out of 75, it's over 19, and the other fifty, how many, six didn't even start, I mean they didn't finish the job, they didn't do '14. A strategy of prevention and coordination of the fight against crime should be completed, and they have not even started in the sense that they respect the law, cooperate and, as they are obliged to do their own anti-corruption plan in which it is necessary, whether they themselves set up organisational units and contact points for co-operation with the Agency, to open communication, channels for reporting corruption and procedures and protection of corruption applicants, to carry out training and education, to make plans for integrity, to implement measures from the Action Plan in accordance with their functional competence and to carry out the Agency's reporting on all this, and then the Agency to us. Now, what am I sorry, I'm looking for now, and perhaps at the next session, I'll ask through the parliamentary question, which are the directors of BiH-level institutions that don't implement this Act, who won't cooperate with you and who haven't brought their plans to fight corruption? Here's the way to create a system, so first on state level and 78 of course all of what colleagues have been saying, drop to the following levels, entities and cantons, local self-government, public enterprises, institutions, institutions, etc. etc. And in the end, we from Parliament who have passed the Law, and someone who is being sensitive and saying, "I don't care about that, I won't enforce the Law." Whoever he is, are we prepared to take action against such persons? It doesn't matter which options are capable, less capable, less incompetent, these are the ossions of people who don't respect this country's Parliament and who won't implement the law. There's a bit of thinking in this report, in this graphic display of 4.11. talks about these 75 institutions, and about the integrity plans, it's said that 29 ended, 19 started, and 27 never started, and yet on one other page it says that, page 18, that it ended with 31.12. The Agency co-ordinated the process of creating and adopting fighting plans in 68 institutions, and that you gave consent, opinion on 54. Now, if the plan contains these six points, the Anti-Corruption Plan, and among other things it must contain the Integratedity Plan, what exactly is this on page 18 that 54 institutions got the consent to have plans or is this exactly on page 12 where you say that there are 29 institutions of integrity plans completed, that 19 started without 27 doing anything about it? If we can get this information about which institutions it is, who are these individuals who do not want to implement BiH laws, who are they that the Council of Ministers has to beg to apply the laws? And if we are prepared as Parliament to give you support through monitoring and evaluation of work and taking other measures to force institutions to do their job for why they are founded and paid, then I think we have a chance at preventing and coordinating the fight against corruption, of course with support and even stronger and stronger work and the Agency. But the Agency itself can't do that, all BiH institutions have to work on this, so when we do something in our backyard, then we have a chance to go to both entities and cantons. The report says that 5 cantons have brought their plans, I don't know tuzlanski, Sarajevo, ZE-DO, Central srednjobosanski and Herzegovina-hercegovačko-neretvanski, the other 5 have no, we don't know what they are, what the situation in the whole second is, in both entities and in the entire public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7812	Thank you. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7813	And since I don't know how else, I have to apply here, business intervention. The President-in-Office of the 79th precisely defines when, in what way and as the reminder is said, and I ask you to act in accordance with Rule 79 of this Rules of Procedure. Namely, I did not insult the MPs and the others, nor did I offend any of those who spoke on the agenda point, but I consulted my colleague about what to say and so on. I ask you to give me an explanation of why, when the article in 79, because you sent me a warning, and I ask you to explain yourself to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7814	Thank you. You are about to receive clarification, the House Speaker may warn a representative who, by his conduct or speech, does not respect the order and provisions of this Rules of Procedure during the House session. You're doing it right now, you're breaking the line, and that's why you got the warning, that's the answer. Thank you. Replica Momčilo Novaković. 79 __________(?) No Discussion [[no microphone turned on]] There's no argument after this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7816	Thank you, Chairman. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7817	Here's your buddy, Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7818	The very fact that the Council of Ministers has reached a conclusion requiring institutions to co-operate with the Agency speaks enough about the weight of both the Agency and the Council of Ministers and I just want to return to a solution that I considered logical, we have many cases here, let's say, the Electoral Law which does not propose the CEC but forms an interresor working group, the Law on conflict of interest - an interresor working group, perhaps here is also a solution of an interresor working group where we would have representatives and Councils of Ministers and Parliament and the Agency to get to the right law. Of course, the Council of Ministers is the subject of the Agency's control does not mean that the Council of Ministers is corrupt and will not propose good solutions, as it can look at all others who are working to solve this problem, for that reason I have spoken in this way. Because the CEC does not mean that we cannot pass the Law on conflict of interest. Or just because the police don't punish me for speeding doesn't mean I can't be the chairman of the Traffic Commission, it doesn't matter. So I simply think that the Council of Ministers is possible to look at, but perhaps a better solution is an inter-resor working group and perhaps we should consider in the next period this Commission should consider the idea of forming an inter-resor working group that would work to improve the text of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7819	Here's Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7820	If you had told the truth and written, warn the Messenger. You did not warn me, but you said it directly – a warning. So it says precisely – the chairman of the House warns the MP. And it's correct, Mr. Secretary, this Rules of Procedure is used to interpret what is written in it, so you interpreted it as not being able to do what I did, but you also didn't warn Mrs. Chairman when she replicated Maji Gasal from the scene, that she had to go out for a pay phone to replicate and didn't give herself a warning. Yes, you've replicated from the scene of Mrs. Maji Gasal. So there are codes of conduct for everyone in this Parliament and here they are defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7821	Thank you very much. 80 Does anyone else appear on this agenda? I don't see any reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We move to point seven – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I mean, I don't know if it was necessary for the director to say something on this wheel. Okay, well, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna let the director talk to us for a little while, so maybe he'll take a look around. Here you go, briefly, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7822	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, first of all, allow me to greet you in front of the Corruption Prevention Agency. I simply need to address this House, although it is very difficult for me to express in a methodological way everything that has been said in the discussions of honourable Members here. First of all, let me say in the beginning, we will carry out everything the law provides and what the law prescribes, so so far the Agency has been working in accordance with its legal powers and I think we have drawn maximum in terms of what we had. There has often been one remark that we have not been recognized in public, and I am afraid, unfortunately, here I am brave enough to say, that it seems we have not been recognized in this House either, I cannot understand that there are still Parliamentarians who are comparing this agency to USKOK, we are not
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7823	Just time, mind your own business.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7824	I will, about changing the overall state of corruption in BiH. We need to know that no declaration can remove corruption, so we have to act on consciousness, ethics issues, morals issues. I'm also against the fact that a civil servant of 35 or 40, 45 years old can learn ethics and morality, and I think it should start with children, from preschool education, primary education, high school, through college, and then already when someone comes into the work process within public institutions, I'd say, a formed personality with personal integrity and that personal integrity tomorrow will affect the integrity of that institution in which he is. All indicators say that in one society the change of consciousness is done for 50 years, 50 years, you want one Agency that has 23 employees, has fewer employees than the countries in the EU, achieve results in a year and reduces the percentage of corruption, it will be very difficult to do so, but we are doing our best to do so, and above all there are plans of integrity that ensure institutional integrity through which key points are recorded, key jobs positions within an institution that can possibly be subject to corruption and then by systematic measures seek to prevent corruption from happening at all. I have already answered about integrity, that in this way, I would say, low capacity, so we managed to serve 68 anti-corruption plans in various BiH agencies. I think the 2015 report will show what was done as a basis in 2014. We already have an agreement with ten cantons, with prime ministers, during 83 September to hold meetings on the formation of a anti-corruption body that will be tasked with co-ordinating strategies and action plans at those levels, and we also have an active relationship with the RS commission and the Federation Action Plan monitoring team. So we impose ourselves as a key focal point of the corruption prevention coordinator, and when I say the prevention of corruption is to remove the conditions that favour corruption. So you have two types of fight against corruption, one is repressive.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7825	Time. Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7826	And one is preventive, this agency deals with prevention. And once again, I am taking the opportunity to thank the honourable MPs, and I would ask, indeed, not on your part, but on the part of other institutions that the relationship with this agency is not a relationship to the fight against corruption in this country. I don't think everyone's gonna be well, especially for generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7827	Thank you to the Director of the Agency, Mr. Lisak. Here, since we have concluded the debate, we have one replica, so here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7828	I thank Madam Chairman for giving me your word, I know it's not common, but my name is mentioned and, I have a need to correct the wrong assumption. In fact, Mr. Director said Mr. Arnaut had found our work unrecognizable in public. No, I explicitly stated what the Commission adopted, the monitoring committee for your work. So, the Commission's members found that the Agency's work so far is unrecognizable in the general public in BiH, and that there is no clear vision of its action in the next period and the work of its leadership has assessed insufficiently energetic, un-ideal and satisfactory approach to resolving the problem of corruption in bh society, in addition to the fact that BiH is located only 72 places in the corruption perception index for 2013, which shows the stagnation of the solution to this problem. So this is something that the Commission for the Monitoring of Your Work has officially adopted, so two days ago the Constitutional Commission adopted it, so today the House of Representatives is likely to adopt this Report. So this is not just my opinion, but this is the official opinion of this Commission, which today will become the official opinion of this House, I think. So I don't think it's okay if it's said that I've realized that you're unrecognizable in public. Chuck, here's what I needed to say right now, and the Commission's finding a lot worse things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7829	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. We're closing the debate on item 6 of the agenda. 84 We move to point seven, Ad. Seven. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014, the BiH Ministry of Security material, issue: 01-04-1016/15 since 20.07.2015 The information was delivered in procedure 20.07.2015. The Home College has designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH as responsible for the discussion. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion on the Information 26/08/2015. The Joint Commission, with respect for the submission of the opinion of the Ministry of Security of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposals of the members of the Committee, as well as the agreement of the Deputy Minister of Security, as the authorised representative of the Ministry of Security of BiH, accepted that the information in question is complemented by the way it is done – in Chapter III of Organized Crime in BiH, point – Trends of measures taken and indications of the next steps - the information needed to be included as part of the implementation of the Integrated and Anti-Corruption Plan in the RS MUP in 2014, an open mail address for the reporting of corruption, which the public is duly and timely informed. In Part Information under point 7. Economic and financial crime at BiH level – it should be stated that by applying the Law on the Abuse of Assets acquired by the conduct of the RS crime and the recommendations of GRECO IPA projects, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia in 2014 permanently seized assets totalling 14,328,296,18 KM in the case of Zoran Ćokić and others. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Representative Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7831	I know when debates are being held in many countries on such a subject, then they are very lively debates and after Budget as one of the most important documents adopted by parliaments, the issue of the security situation in one country, and, after that, it takes a central place in parliamentary clubs and in parliaments. So for many years at the head of the Ministry of Security were mostly people who did not come from security structures. Now we have the first time anyone comes from a mile he's known. And that's why I expected this nuance report to at least differ from reports that have been coming for years and that haven't adopted any of the homes in years. But unfortunately, I've seen that the report has actually been written for years by the same people, even the sentences they overwrite from year to year are exactly the same. There's no change, the same terms only in second place. So, you can see that the people who are doing this information on the state of security are very tired and that someone else should take over to do this job on their behalf and I expect the ministers to keep that in mind when you're working on that topic in your ministry. Now let me share a few observations with you in the hope that you will support what I'm talking about. What is the state of security in BiH? Does this report answer that question? What's good and what's not? What should we do to change the situation? We should be surprised by any extraordinary event, or we could be prepared for something and it shows that the operation of police and security agencies in BiH is at that level, that they can successfully oppose it. There's no part of the report that could confirm that. The information does not contain any proposals, conclusions or remarks in terms of improving measures, what it should do to make things change. This is a direct consequence of the lack of 85 assessments of the situation in which we live and what are the key security challenges we should face. So what does such information serve? It should serve Parliament to adopt measures, to propose measures and to adhere, to insist on these measures, to start changing things for the better. So no, it wasn't done, and I, as proof of what I said, was not to act, that someone wouldn't accuse me of being subjective, here's a few observations from that report. According to the crash, crimes in the area of economic crime have been registered by 7.5% and acts in the area of corruption have dropped by 6.20%. Is that a good condition? So who do we write these reports to? It's just that it's registered crimes, so there's not enough registered. What's wrong? What are we doing? What are we waiting for? He says, worrying about the amount of material damage done to the $33 million budgets, but then it slantfully concludes, that 33 million is, however, that 973 thousands less than in 2013, 33 million of all damages, so we solved the problems all crime and corruption. That's what the report says. Further, he said, among other things, no terrorist attack was carried out in 2014, although BiH faces constant risks and occasional threats that are evident. It happened immediately after that, there was an attack on the Zvornik Police Station. So there's no conundrum, please. _______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, yes, well, you touched yourself in 2003, I'll tell the ministers to wait, and you'll challenge me in the end. The biggest one,... is that the Croatian Intelligence Agency said, so what the BiH Intelligence Agency is saying is not true and the results of people going to foreign wars from BiH are twice as big as what the BiH Intelligence Agency is showing. Again, one of our neighbors is commenting on how we don't know we're working in the Security Sector. Have we met seriously with the notion of terrorism, or do many in politics today view terrorism as a small turnout of a rocker? We've heard of this term used when it's wanted to completely banalize one serious thing that's related to the fight against terrorism. And finally, how many in all of this has the prosecution filed charges against the people who fought in Iraq and Syria and then returned to BiH? If the Croatian Intelligence Service says it's 600 and the D.A. only filed four criminal charges, where are we? What we've passed that law, is the law not right, so my criminal measures are weak or we don't implement the law? Why? That's what I expected the Department of Security to answer. This thing about the work of the task force and this other group, as it's called, the operational group, which I don't know for years, for four years, it seems to me to be talking about it and the biggest problem of the security agencies has been where it's going to be located. We were clearly told by the deputy minister that he was against it, but I don't think the deputy minister has the right to talk about it if the Council of Ministers' decision or within the security sector is different. As for corruption, the report says that in 2014 police agencies in BiH registered 456 crimes of corruption, down by 6%. What are we talking about two hours ago? ...we've actually solved the problem. He says the number of 86 registered hate crimes has been reduced by 47%. And then this event happens to us in the Potocari, so we see where we are, as far as hatred is concerned, in all its fullness, that's what we've demonstrated. And then in the middle of the report, it says that in 2015, this is the 2014 Information, but now it says – in 2015, the Protection Agency expects an even greater and stronger fight in the area of crime control in those areas where it was a problem in 2014. That word of honor we'll do next time, it'll be much better. It's promising, but he doesn't know what to catch up on. As regards the security challenges listed here and these security challenges in 2014. - 2015. It is an interesting point 4 which is stated in the Information – The lack of better co-ordination and communication between police agencies and security institutions. Oh, no, you don't. The Department of Security employs 200 people. I was watching 37 cars the other day as much as the Department of Defense for 10,000, if not 200 people who don't know exactly what they're doing. But we don't have, the only function the Ministry of Security does, and that's all it does is coordinate. E, there's no coordination between that and that the Ministry means it's just finding out. So point 14 says - the existence of a dark crime figure. We all know that, but we don't know how we're gonna solve it. So, not a word about how and how we will welcome these refugees if they happen to us. One day it appears that BiH is able to receive 300, another day 400, after that 500, and I don't see what number we are now, every day a second piece of information comes out in the paper as much as we are able to receive and properly accommodate the refugees. And not a single word of this country's terrible problem, which is a crowded military warehouse of unstable ammunition that could explode at any moment, you see what's going on in other countries. And it's a matter of security, but it's obvious that the Ministry of Security is doing everything for us and we haven't been able to get it from the Ministry of Defense to the Ministry of Security. So, this report has a lot of data, the trees don't show the forest, but there are no answers that would help us tell, to explain to the citizens as their constituents, what a safe environment BiH lives in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7833	Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7834	Business.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7835	And business, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7836	Given the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to warn the chairman that at this point, a member of the 77th respect for the agenda has been violated. We're here talking about the 2014 Report and we don't have a touch point with a report of some, some report that will be possible in 2015, and I ask you that, since you react to everything, you react to such things and return to what is the topic of the agenda. So I'm warning you it's a member of our 77th Rules of Procedure. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7837	Thank you very much. Is this a replica? The replica of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7838	Let me just say that, among other things, I have spoken about the entire Report, and one of the titles is called, obviously not everyone has read – Security, Challenges and Risks for the period 2014-2015 and made a review of two points. So that's the material from the report... that's what it's called. If the gentleman hasn't read it, he can look at page 10-11 and find it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7839	Thank you very much. The debate was attended by a representative of the Maja Gasal Vražalica. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Momčilo Novaković, right. Something was that, it wasn't really on, I didn't see it, it was probably removed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7841	I assume someone deleted the name after you gave me your word,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7843	And then it happened. Thank you very much. I would like to say that I am very much in favour of my colleague Majkić, with the fact that I would like to remind her that this is the 2014 report, and that this Council of Ministers was elected in 2015, and that it would be good if this was discussed on the 2013 and 2012 Report, perhaps this would be a much better report for 2014, perhaps it would have been written differently, perhaps have a completely different form than this one. I hope that the new Minister of Security will do it better and that for 2015 we will have exactly the kind of report Mrs. Majkić spoke about.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7844	Thank you. Second replica, Dušanka Majkić. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7845	So every time this was a theme, I was talking the same way. In my speeches, I don't look back on whether my representative of the political party sits in that place or not. So, only in the same way, here you were, as chairman, a member of both the past and before, and it is very well known how I, within the framework of the Defence and Security Commission, worked. And every year Parliament had a problem with this Information and did not adopt. So, are we going to put one line in, shall we get it over with? I don't take any of this as it's been done so far, but I thought this report, even if it's 2014 we're going to start thinking differently and talking differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7846	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. Representative Maja Gasal the Vražalica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7847	Thank you. I sign everything that the distinguished colleague Majkić said with this to ask, when it is already consistent, that no matter which minister sits in which political parties, it is right to mention that all people are equally valuable and so the event in Potocari happened, but before the events in Potocari something happened in RS, in the Federation towards returnees the other day in Tomislav City in front of a religious facility in front of the mosque, so that there are hate crimes on every BiH territory, on every inch of BiH. What I would ask the Honorable Minister to pass on to his servants because I believe that the ministers are leaving and coming, ministers and ministers, remain officials who write these reports, so that in the future, and as a country that has signed UN Resolution 1325 – Women, Peace and Security, this report should certainly be gender-sensitive. The analyses were supposed to be made according to sex, both the data and those parts of this information or this report were supposed to have one gender analysis. All reports should also finally begin to write as concluded in the previous session in the native sensual language. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to make a proposal that, in accordance with this proposal, I will support this report in the future because by communicating with the BiH-level Statistics Agency, it is so strange that we have various agencies at BiH level that no relevant data will classify any gender-based information, so that when you phone you from one phone or locale to other addresses, and the Ministry of Security can in any way communicate with the Gender Equality Agency, with the Gender Centres and all of this information can be integrated into this plan. This is not something some individual wants or doesn't want, it's all in accordance with the Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7848	Thank you. Debate, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7849	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't know, I understand reports differently in general. So this report that we have should serve something that should be the basis for... work in the next period. We have one report with all these weaknesses and disadvantages that are listed here which is purely statisticalally percentageally processed and the mass of one general data is given. So the report cannot read what the people in BiH are interested in at this point. It is one of the main problems or interest of the people in BiH, in what security atmosphere we live in BiH. Please, as someone can be satisfied with the fact that it is stated here that some criminals from a criminal mile have managed to be in contact with the representatives, let's say court and I don't know, as judicial and prosecutoral authorities and to hire, I don't know, I don't know, a simpler approach or connect with those who are in prison, who allow them to do their jobs uninterruptedly from prison. How can this be in this report so in general that there is no concrete information? Not only that, but what's done about it? Is there any measure that is either a sanction that has been taken or is not certain of what they have stated here so they cannot give it more detail and more concretely or that it is a matter of some, as I would say, secrecy so that it cannot be discussed at Parliament. I think that we should have more incomparably more content and more concrete reports on the basis of which we can gain the impression and by our debate to help in the work of these institutions. So I think this is one general, one report that can't help me very much to get the impression that we're doing something to correct the future functioning of the elements of this security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7850	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7851	Thank you very much. _________(?) Don't be long. I'll watch, I'll try, three more are reported. My colleague warns me to cut short, I'll try to stick to the agenda, and there's the Honorable chairman, so he'll tell me the time and the end of the story. A few sessions ago, of course, we were discussing some security issues and it seems to me that we were looking both as MPs and as Home, and also as a competent commission to do one complete piece of information, the minister promised and here delivered it. The name is Information on the state of security in BiH in 2014. So, I'm going to try not to go out of the agenda, and maybe it's a relief to me now, there's these guys now left, this strict 90-president then I won't pass as my colleague Backović, which I don't, of course, I'm holding aside from my colleague Backović, and that might have been a little too strict, so there's still a little bit of a warning,... there's not been any of those ugly things going on out there that are foreseen in the Rules of Procedure. I respect our chairman, but I'm starting to think that could happen to any of us, so that's why I'm saying it, God Bog. You see, when it comes to this agenda point, this was a little out of the agenda, so I apologize to the chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7853	Come on, please, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7854	We must always return to our system as it has been set up constitutionally and legally and legally. And then we said we have police agencies, bodies that have independence, operational financial, uh, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, no interference, not that the minister, the ministry and the government are anything, okay. I respect that, and it should be that way, but when there's something wrong with those agencies or we're not satisfied with their results, then we say the ministers are guilty. Well, how guilty you'll be if you don't have the instruments. I'm not saying it personally for this minister right now, and that goes for the last and the last and the last and the last and every future as long as this system is set up. So if they have independence and all the powers and legal and financial and support, then they must also be responsible for their work. This is how we have a security minister who is some kind of mailman, I'm not talking personally to the minister right now, about every last and future thing as long as this thing is set up with us who's nice, asking them to send him some reports, and if they're good and they're willing and they won't, then you're trying there to get together, agree and tell him here's some kind of overall security situation and picture in BiH. I'm just reminding all of us, and I'm asking that we keep these things in mind, so that everyone, within their responsibilities and responsibilities, should behave. I'm not happy, either, but I can't draw conclusions, like the state of crime. Now this is the data, I guess it's true, I'm starting with that assumption, and it's obvious in the report that there are fewer registered crimes, so here's a colleague who referred to these data in the table, Chapter 3. – Crime movement in BiH on page 27. So you see it's in '14. compared to '13. In the FMUP reported minus 7.3% of criminal acts registered, in the RS MUP 8% less, then in the Brcko District police, 0.68 for 3 crimes, although, meaning this is plus, means more registered than in '13, the Border Police write minus 36.36, I don't think the percentage is correct, because it says that 184 is registered compared to 220 '13, so those two numbers when they get in relation that's not 36% because 36% is more than one-third. And then the total in BiH is 7.57. Now, if there were really so many crimes and citizens reported less crimes committed in BiH, that's a good thing. But what worries me as much as the others, whether it was the same or more crimes and the citizens or the victims, it's a little bit treated by this Information, because of the mistrust in the system, in justice, in the police, in the prosecutions or courts, because of the mistrust that it can achieve institutional protection, they didn't want to report these crimes, it's a dilemma, it's a question, and we won't be able to find answers to those questions. 91 A similar situation is related to participation in paramilitary or parapolitan formations, it is not just participation in a war in Syria or I don't know in Iraq, it was and it seems to me in Ukraine, we should bear in mind the time when we passed the law, when he entered into force and when this crime was prescribed as a criminal offence so that the police, courts and prosecutors could prosecute the perpetrator of such crimes. And finally, here's no colleagues and I've already spent quite a bit of time, what I'm sorry for, and this is one continuous activity after those difficult events, so we've had a number of activities at the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and Visiting the Ministry and Defence at the Ministry of Security and Agency and one joint work up in Jahorina with present all the representatives from these security agencies and the Ministry of Defense, we've come together to a certain set of conclusions about the security area, thinking only the Security Ministry's portfolio, but also the Ministry of Defence and we adopted it yesterday, the day before yesterday, the day before, I think when we had a session of the Commission, I think it was probably delivered to the College. I'm sorry that this material hasn't been found, and these conclusions, they're completely compatible with the Security Information on all these activities, the coordination issues, which is why we passed the law and put out the force on police officers, tasked the Ministry to make a new text of the law. And this would be a comprehensive approach and a path to the activities of the measures that are here at least in this and next year should also be taken by Parliament, and the Ministry of Security and all directives and agencies that apply the law, and of course the Ministry of Defence, and if we agree and amend these laws both on co-ordination and on police officers, and we will monitor the work of executive authorities and agencies, then we also have a chance to repair the situation in these two areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7855	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7856	Thank you. I will not honor your violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I will point out that this session has been broken by the Rules of Procedure on several occasions, especially by Article 70, 71 and 167, and I am not talking about other members who are being broken in order. You didn't get a chance. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If Bog does. To talk about the information on the state of security in BiH, not to look at the overall situation, the minister knows best, the overall co-operation, the coordination, and you no longer know what and what, what is called the services involved and not taking into account the complexity of the system and putting it on the back and on the burden of those who wrote this, it is at least degutant and ridiculous. Because we said for ourselves how many of those agencies are there, said Mr. 16. I'm telling you that direct, indirect, and through something that's inappropriate, these are the ones that deal with some kind of security business, these services in this country have countless jobs. Countless. And I, Minister, fully understand. Your position is very complex. And your work, your decisions, your 92 orientations are simply something that should be respected precisely because of this complexity of the system as it is made in this country. You have a situation where in state institutions, it's just unclear to me how it can happen, that instead of official MUPs, I don't know what it's called anymore, you get in and you see security agencies. Someone has to explain to me how they carry out insurance, the security of institutions that belong to the state. What we're talking about, terrorism and so on, it's probably the most complex issue right now in the world, the most complex. And I hope those in charge, because we're talking about Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, but dozens of videos from Ukraine, but not on one side, but on both sides, that's very interesting, we split up there and there, one over there, the clips. They support it as Ukrainian, and they support it as another side. So we forgot those public statements of people who afterwards had public presentations of their movements in Visegrad in Crimea and no one mentioned them. Are we a country that has an ular and sees only one way or sees everything that's going on in it? So, public people come out and say, talk, and then their videos on Crimea and those in uniform and in arms and come here and nobody asks them for anything. You have video clips on YouTube, so those who are interested find it all and see it. They look at everything. Naranvo, I am absolutely against every extremism, I am absolutely for sanctioning everyone, but I am absolutely for respecting the law that outside the territory of BiH people cannot, is no longer that religious, national and no longer know which member of the establishment, there is a provision to go where lives are lost. And on that side we don't need and we can't have a left or right or a center, that's a comprehensive problem. So we should approach that problem completely. In all of this, we were just talking about something called corruption and so on, it's actually a very strange word, you know, we should be directly talking about bribery, mythomania, bribery, it's easier to understand people or personal material benefit. Only our own, Mr. Minister, only our criminal legislation knows the formula that you, without any material use, have helped someone to achieve material benefits. Look, only our criminal law in Europe knows that. Without personal material use, it allowed someone to benefit from millions, tens of millions. You're nothing, but there he is and he's gone from Bosnia and there's nothing you can do about it anymore. No one's gonna intervene, not even the D.A.'s office, not even us here, because when that's mentioned right now. It's something amazing, isn't it, to make it possible for someone without you getting your mustache dirty? There's no such thing in the world. So you have a lot of problems and I'm telling you, I understand, and I'm convinced that you'll do with your team the effort to go towards legal solutions that won't have these formulations, which won't have absurd formulations that make people, it's known that it's gone and it's gone, but it's taken someone out there X, because this guy hasn't accomplished material benefit as God's sake. You have these examples, and that's why what happens to spectacular actions, spectacular ones, that's why we fail, we fail. You know that now, let's say, the current competition for the chief prosecutor of the Federation of BiH and as political parties has no bearing on it will be the High and Prosecutor's Council, and in advance it is known who this High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will be directed towards, because within those who decide who it will be, as I was talking about that USKOK. So we have to question ourselves where he thinks, which way and how this country? I support you in your work and I hope to have more opportunities to discuss these topics, because it's very important, of which we have those murders on the street, we have rapes, 93 we have violent behaviors, and so on, because it's actually produced and reflected at the lowest level. What's called a general crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7858	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7859	Thank you. I hope so, and I purposely wanted to talk at the end, so here I am, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7860	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7861	Well, you haven't closed the debate. Uh, I guess I won't blaspheme if I remind myself of maybe the second, third session when I suggested one conclusion, that the person who submits the report to us, so the relevant person and those institutions, as well, come to us and say briefly their vision from the data that he listed in the report and tells us that he sees the situation in that area according to the report he submits and the recommendations. So, unfortunately, that's not respected again, so I'd be begging now if we could at least turn it around, if the next time the reports came out, so the people, who file the report, and maybe the discussions would be half down, because we, for example, were an impressive or solid discussion just before Mr. Director of the Agency, and I believe that he was the first to say that half of the discussion wouldn't be, so he would have made it clear at the beginning of some things. But also, if, for example, this person who today would expect to tell us what a security situation is that which is possible, more clearly, with the proposals that he makes in 2015, will come out here and say, and those who, of course, want to re-discuss, but not to be re-evaluated from these numbers as here at the end of the short summary that he says, this is a security situation if you follow - based on important indicators presented as in the summary of the information, so it can be said that the state of security in BiH in 2014 is at the level of all post-conflict societies and at the level of security in other countries of the region, while strengthening the knowledge that BiH must be aware that there are problems with terrorism and radical ideologies that can abuse the dissatisfaction of the public political-economic situation. So that's the assessment of the security situation, now you here... and the data whatever you want, put them in whatever you want, I expected the person responsible to use this data to assess the security situation, to tell us here in 20 good sentences, and then maybe we don't discuss much, so that maybe we can accept the suggestions he says and something he needs, not just according to this report, I say I was talking about all the reports... I would at least like it to change if it is possible for me to not suggest any more conclusions and that perhaps these discussions are more effective and that the result of these discussions is better, clearer and offers answers. And nothing like this, the report will either accept or refuse, I don't know how who, but we won't get anything. Thank you. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7862	Thank you. A deputy, Mr. Džaferović, applied for the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7863	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to draw attention to a question that I appreciate should be found as a special area, and now it is not done so, in information when we talk about the state of security in BiH. I know that we will have special information about the realization of Annex VII on the return, about the state in which the returnees live, so one of the aspects will be security, but I think it is not enough just through a form of security that, through a state of security that is measured only by the state of crime, shows this phenomenon as well. I think she has to be special, so the condition of the returnee's safety is particularly reflected in the information of this type and I suggest that it be done in the future. So, the information contains crimes, criminal acts, statistics, made out of hate, so it's a crime of causing national, racial, religious hatred, impatience, but I don't think that's enough. We are witnessing that recently it has become a phenomenon, so there have been very frequent attacks on returnees, on their property, and I think that this time, for this information, we need to underline this matter and propose to the Council of Ministers that, in future, I say, no matter what we get information about returnees, the realization of Annex VII, the issue of returnees' safety is one of the most sensitive issues in BiH, being treated in information of this type. I think it would be very useful to contribute to general security in BiH, and also to the security of returnees. And one more thing, I think it should be courageously highlighted in the information of this type, we have to enter that area, and that is the question of how unstable the political scene and the negative political rhetoric that produces such a scene affects the state of security in BiH, and I think we will have to deal with this issue in the coming period, because I am quite convinced that the negative political rhetoric, including some decisions by some institutions in BiH, is destabilising the political and therefore the security situation in BiH. Because the issue of security is a matter that is much wider than the state of crime, Information acknowledges it, she knows it, and I think that it should be developed in these two additional directions and that the situation in BiH requires, of course, when making up the next report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7864	Thank you, Deputy. I don't see any more applicants for the debate, here at the end of the minister if he wants to speak briefly, taking care of the weather, of course. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7865	Thank you. Dear MPs, when it comes to this information a few sentences, I'd like to say, perhaps even to clarify some things, it seems... that we've confused some things here, but here I'll try to make it clear. 95 First of all, it seems to me that for the last two or three years this information has not been in Parliament at all and that information has not been discussed at all, last year has not certainly been discussed. And what's the matter? Nothing. Has anyone scratched on the team? It's not. And you know why she wasn't? Because some agencies didn't want to deliver data to the Ministry of Security, and we weren't able to do this information to anyone. Now that I have made the information sit down with everyone, go, explain, convince how important it is that we have one information and that we can look somewhere at the overall state of security in BiH that will serve all and one agency within BiH... then, again, some kind of problem. The first thing we got is someone, data that can't be compared, someone like this, someone in this way, someone in this one, one of these, those, you weren't able to compare and give some qualifications, you're concluding some kind of trends or something. The other thing, this information is based on, this isn't a report, I can see that it's getting in a lot of things here, there's been a lot of talk about the report, this isn't a report, no work report, there's no need to mention some agencies in that context, etc. Based on the report, I'm going to tell you, the SIPA, the Border Police, the Direct Taxation Authority, the Foreign Affairs Service, the operating agencies I'm talking about, the entity MUPs and ten cantonal MUPs, so you did see that in the jurisdiction of these acts that were brought here to reach the overall assessment, that the works of the cantonal MUPs are within the jurisdiction of the cantonal MUPs. What measures to propose, which would tomorrow refer to the cantonal MUP, what should I suggest? So the purpose of this information was to get the data and the indicators, to see what kind of condition we have, to try something as much as possible to combine it in some, with some data from the past years, and to see where we're going, where we're going, where these directions are going. So if I were to come into a situation where I'd qualify for the cantonal MUPs to have this, they have to do this, and I have a hundred thoughts about everything right and wrong, so it wouldn't go anywhere, not in this Parliament, but it wouldn't go to any local community. I thought we'd be more serious about the data presented here, so you can see the structure of the acts of corruption, that it's nothing, that you see the structure, I don't know, of some financial crime, so you can see how many cases we've discovered in BiH all together and how many crimes we have money laundering, I think nine, nine parts of money laundering. You know what the total, uh, how much was discovered, was taken away? It's minor. So you know how much alcohol has been taken off the table in this report at our border? 0.75 liters, so there could be one bottle of whiskey, I don't know, I don't know what it could be, I don't think it was taken away before someone dropped it, forgot it or something. So did you see the amount of drugs that was taken? Well, that's grams, two ecstasys, two ecstasy pills, six marijuana stems, 1.66 grams of cocaine. I was thinking, and look at the structure of the discovery from the area of drug prevention and detection, so you'll see that all the works have been discovered at the level of street dealers. Where are the drug lords? Where's our Darko Šarić? Where is our Kosmajac, where is ours, as all normal states reveal? I thought we'd deal with it, I'm not satisfied with this data, but the information is a set of statistical indicators, especially if you have a parallel indicator back three, three or four years, so then you can conclude some trends and then you can make some conclusions in the next direction that's going to happen. And what we're going to conclude is, we've been writing information for a year, so for three years, we have no information and no one. Well, here's the thing, and that's the fact, but I thought that we'd get to, basically, the one by methodology, which is why it's controversial, is there somewhere else we should be boarded up, is something supposed to be red, is something supposed to be thin, you have all the indicators here? Well, I said what you didn't look at, so you'll see what the total amount of drug abuse in this country is, which is the total amount of money seized to prevent and launder at night, which is the total amount of property taken from light and discovery of crimes, etc. etc. 96 No, I don't agree that this is the last qualification you've read to Mr. Lovrinović, it's just a summary, when you read the whole
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7866	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7867	Yeah, okay. When you read the entire information you'll see a series of findings inside that talk about some directions, something etc. etc. I agree, uh, but give you the information that I make up specifically about the situation, here if you are at the level of the agencies that have the authority of this Ministry, I will list you ten measures immediately to be taken and this, which should be done, and I have proposed this on the Commission, etc. etc. That, that... And you see, when it comes to returnees, the problems of returnees, these are means, they can be crimes of hatred, they can be violations of public order and peace or some crimes, I don't know now that I'm not counting, easier. Well, these are acts of lower-level jurisdiction, I'm going to give you information, I'm going to sit with everyone and entities and cantons and this and give you these data, but what conclusions we can make towards these institutions, according to the cantonal MUPs, according to the entity MUPs, what we're going to do -- nothing, we're not in charge. Let's talk about something that is real. The key problem here, it is not true you must, Mrs. Majkić said, there was no terrorism, there were no terrorist attacks in 2014, there were no attacks, but there were crimes from the head of terrorism, which she prescribed, I don't know which number of heads in the field of terrorism, so there were, I don't know, maybe this crime, and among other things there were 19 crimes, or 18 when one was accused of going to a foreign war, but it wasn't a terrorist attack. It's clear to the river and has the structure and number of perpetrators of terrorist acts, but there are no terrorist attacks. In 2015 we had and he'd be shown in 2015 but sometimes, uh,... sometimes before and I think that, I thought we'd be more involved in this... precisely this data where we're going to see it. So here we're saying, here's a devastating fact, look what's there now, one fact, I was thinking that we're going to base ourselves, you have a situation that according to some criminality, cross-border criminality, the border police had an increase in terms of discovery 28%, and the administration of indirect taxation is down 78%, and they're standing next to each other there. So, what is it, is it the Agency's work or is it a matter of reducing crime? No, all these facts that speak here and these statistical indicators in terms of the drop in the number of crimes, it's just the number of registered discovered and it says that the involvement and capacity of police structures to detect crimes. No criminal acts are affected quality and objectively. And I said here, 60% is assumed, dark numbers here, do you have works you don't need to discover, reports them victim, code, I don't know, physical assault, murder, and now you don't have a dark figure in the area of corruption. It's mostly gone, no one reports the works, you have to engage, tax evasion and there's supposed to be, I'm telling you, that there's somewhere, according to some analyses, Transparency International and some other organizations and scientific institutions etc. The dark figure goes up to 60%, it's a worrying fact, it's catastrophic, it's devastating. Most of the works are not revealed and nowhere, uh,.... I thought that we would talk about it and that at the end of that, we would finally say what, the issue of the responsibility of police agencies is at stake, the question of the responsibility of police agencies and the management of police agencies. Let him prove what he finds a 78% drop in, uh, cross-border crime, let him say. Here's what you want from me, what initiative am I going to start? I think it's an unhappiness, but I don't have the instruments, I'm telling you, I told 97 to the public and the honeycomb, here I repeat here in front of this House, the Independent Police Committee is the most powerful weapon in the hands of the political elites and the structure for influence on police work and on human resources and on police work, etc. etc. So don't let us lie, so don't let us fool ourselves, so take ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7868	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7869	The independent police committee, here's his vote, when it was an individual vote on an object, so on which we are principles... it's a clean bill and I mean don't fool ourselves. Give me a state-level instrument, don't be afraid it won't be okay, I'm 30 and a few years old, I've been working in surgery, so he can't tell me what a crime is. In crime, it's a simple calculation, you have the number of crimes, you have the number of lit crimes, reported, convictions, etc. You have the number of crimes per unknown, acts per unknown perpetrator, you have a percentage of lighting, you have a dark number. No, there's no philosophy that big and everything, from all of it. Even so, I promise you from this place will be fighting corruption. There will be spectacular arrests to Mr. Salesanovic, what you said is gone, there will be a discovery of difficult affairs, I promise you here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7870	Please, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7871	Some won't make it out and hide
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7872	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7873	Where, here I apologize, robbed, uh, and no, the people are poor, unemployed, so corruption and this type of crime destroys the economic base of this country. And there will be arrests I promise you, it's not that long when some will be taking bills for despite the powers we have. But don't drag me to suggest some measures and bear some responsibility for what, for the data given to us by the county or the cantons, which the entities, which are here, are gone, I have now presented to you, and the data we have barely received, three months we have culled, prayed, complemented and received. And finally again, I'm just repeating, when they didn't want to give us information, we didn't have any information so that you didn't do anything, then we don't have any information, but we talked to someone there and said, "Come on, seas, seas." He doesn't have to, he doesn't have to, he doesn't have to, he doesn't have to, he doesn't have to, he doesn't have Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7874	Thank you, Minister. Here at this point we have several replicas, since we are at a previous point after that, just ask that you respect the time. 98 Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7875	... that we respect the weather, so I'd like to withdraw that proposal of yours now, so if I'm going to be told like this, then I better not be told, but I don't know, Mr. Minister, did you listen to yourself what you are, you did, you needed it, so you'll give us what you want. If you don't know what you're going to suggest, if you don't know how to assess the security situation from what you have in front of you, so how we're going to evaluate it, so you're an expert, you're the one who should give us solutions and answers or suggestions, and I don't know what, so you transferred it to Parliament. Thank you very much, so you haven't re-evaluated the situation according to this information you've given, and from what you've said, I conclude it's disastrous, Bog help us, Bog help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7876	Thank you. Replica, Senad Šepić. Senad Šepić, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7877	This is more of a suggestion, so I haven't been like this for a long time, as you might say, to the honest and determined attitude of one of the people who's been doing this job I've heard about this speaker. So, feel the desire and willingness to move something in this area, here I have a suggestion, you say the ministers – there will be arrests and we will fight corruption openly. Here I beg you, here's my conclusion, a proposal, give us a proposal for a measure, tell us what this Parliament needs to change in terms of legislation to give you powers to fight crime? What do we have to do, and then we'll see who's, say, here amongst us who's sitting, who's against it. Those who would be willing to be against it means they're afraid of what you're talking about. And I want what you're saying, and here I'm going to suggest a conclusion, give us a concrete bill to change, which area, what to adopt, and financial support you, etc. Let's just do it once, and you're absolutely right when you say that this corruption is destroying the economic base for this country's development. I don't know what wise leadership is laughing at these discussions, but really, in that sense, I think we all need to help the man.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7878	Thank you very much. Replica Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7879	I really support you, absolutely in all that, just waiting for that day to see in BiH, but I'll only draw your attention to two, two data. In BiH, border police seized 10.4 grams of heroin and 1.6 grams of cocaine in 2014, where heroin and cocaine are produced? Who is responsible for the existing agency, BiH Border Police? The SIPA has seized a thousand, I apologize to the glasses, 1 851 grams of cocaine, heroin, not a single gram of cocaine, SIPA and the border police in BiH have seized 7 kg of SIPA, and 13 kg and some grams, that I do not show in grams, these marijuana, 252 kg MUP RS. That's a dramatic little bit and this 252 99 kg and these 7 kg and 13 kg, please let's make it work, do you want to talk about what the Directorate of Direct Taxation is doing, the billions of marks of this country, the citizens of this country are smuggled into mafia hands. Is the mob supposed to be running Parliament or are we going to stand by that mob's neck, whoever it is, if someone's in our ranks, here's to arrest us, but we can't do it anymore. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7880	Thank you. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7881	Thank you. Minister, this is about headaches, I've got headaches, pills, I'm just about to take a drink. I support you, here, here we have mixed pears and apples, grandmothers and frogs and what you have pointed your finger at us, yes, to us, because we here have to agree that the rules that are unique, so how and which will be implemented it is quite something else and the way of implementation is something completely different, it's a fact state. We are the ones who need to find a modus that border police, that SIPA, that indirect taxation management is fully responsible, not alienated power centers, are alienated power centers and it's undivided. Why won't we admit it ourselves, how is it possible that in such a centurion you can make as many affairs and now be silent? Now there's nothing going on and there's nothing going on and there's nothing going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Therefore, these policy patterns and those that, through political, political power, control them and condition them, because politics and sets them up, and not the profession, is something that we here have to resolve. If we are very responsible for this country, for this people and finally for how the citizens of this country, no matter what entity they live in or where they live. Thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7882	Thank you. The replica of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7883	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Dear counterpart Lovrinoviću and security like all other ministers are political figures above all, not professional figures. We had security ministers here who didn't come from the security sector at all, and this we may be fortunate that Mr. Mektić comes from that sector, here's Mr. Ahmetović, he won't be angry, according to the profession is a defectologist or former Minister Radončić an academic painter, so. I think it's perfectly enough that we get to see how much we know to read, what our condition is. It doesn't take much wisdom, here's a respected colleague of Prodanović's talking about the state of the fight against narcotics and drug confiscation, and the minister mentioned where our Darko Šarić is. Well, we all know in our midst that there are places where drugs are sold uninterruptedly, where police never go down, why? Then we have a part here, this is terrible, what it says in this Information is terrible, and the most terrible is this 100 sentence, which says -- that they are particularly concerned about data that a number of criminal operators have managed to obtain individual representatives of the executive and judicial authorities by giving bribes, and that the Intelligence Agency says -- that institutions are constantly engaged, persons working in institutions, that they are constantly engaged and on the list of these criminal groups or mafias. This is what Mr. Lovrinović tells me that this country and these institutions are run by criminal groups and that crime in this country is stronger than institutions. The question is whether we have enough political will here, enough and personal will to clear these things up and move from that point, because it's becoming a question of the future. And I'm particularly interested in this, and here I know that the minister is not competent and competent to answer that, if Intelligence tells us such information that someone is constantly paid by criminal groups and works in institutions, how is it possible? So why wasn't that someone arrested? Why hasn't he been convicted, has the prosecution been corrupt? We're going to arrest judges and prosecutors, who's going to arrest the SIPA who didn't, how many drugs did she find, who didn't respond to the task or who didn't know which one was already the M.O.P., who should be arrested here? I'm afraid this information is saying that the state of this country is completely rotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7884	Thank you. Replica Damir Arnaut, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7885	I really listened with great interest to today's discussions and simply to the infidelity, because here today everyone is headed by the current minister of security, and then all the minors who later or before said that BiH's security minister has no operational jurisdiction over police work. If someone had listened to you today a year ago, you would have seen that you have completely conflicting views, here's Senad Šepić agreed that the BiH Security Minister has no operational jurisdiction over the police side, so he offers the conclusion that this changes, that we adopt laws that will finally give the Minister of Security operational jurisdiction, is that, if I understand you correctly, you're offering it. Then answer me - then why did you vote for the BiH Security Minister's shift a year ago with an explanation that he didn't send the police to beat the people? That's when you said he had operational jurisdiction, so make a deal. But more importantly, why didn't you name the new Minister of Security then, but Mr. Mladen Čavar for a year didn't know what hit him, so... if we had the Minister of Security for a full year, this country was full of one year without the Minister of Security, don't forget that, for a full year. And if you had been responsible for this country, if you had then offered conclusions for the appointment of a new minister of security, perhaps this 2014 report would not have been this disastrous. So don't ask any more demagogy and remember what you said a year ago and at least adjust the discussion to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7886	Thank you very much. Replica, second replica Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7887	My dear colleague, Miss Pandurević, I'd love to, but that's exactly what you said, and in the end, we both realized that the situation was catastrophic. So, that such observations and safety assessments were just given by the minister, not you. We can give no one to defend us, of course, but it would be easier for us to get that person at the head of such a ministry to give a grade. And I didn't read it well because I didn't get the material in Croatian, but I didn't want to make it more potent, but when you asked me, so now I had to say it, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7888	Thank you. Replica, Senad Šepić, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7889	So here's Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7890	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7891	I didn't mention at all that the Minister of Security had no operational jurisdiction, I don't know how you got it, but I said that when he had so much readiness to do it, I wish he had been there, too, in that form, he had so much willingness to do it, and so did the one sitting with me, because we used to understand and support him. But what I heard today, I could feel, so that energy of his, the desire to fight it so openly, I just said that once you've got that kind of readiness and somewhere in the regulations, what's called, there's more of our support missing, what should we change to strengthen you even more of the ministers. So, all my discussion went that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7892	Thank you. Replica, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7893	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I didn't want to speak on this subject for the reasons that I've been in a similar situation for three and a few years when the whole state is asking you for a result, and you don't have any instrument to do that. Therefore, I also understand the esteemed colleague Dragan Mektić with all the respect and desire he has to make, when it comes to curbing and organised crime and all that is the problem of this country. I remember when we passed the Law on, then I was an MP, on the coordination of police bodies, and we didn't allow it to be entered into the law that the Directorate could coordinate and lower police structures, the rest of them were co-ordinated to the SIPA and the Border Police, and all of them asked the Minister to coordinate and accuse him of not coordinating, and nowhere was he told that he could do it 102. So I think that we need to release ourselves from the political and other charges we have to help the citizens of BiH and bring regulations that will strengthen all the structures in BiH that deal with these issues. It's the only way to regulate the responsibility of those who don't. In order to, at times, interfere with operational jurisdiction and our directors of police agencies have realized that the Minister
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7894	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7895	that his, meddling in the operational authority to write something down there, will not sometimes be delivered to him by key security issues in BiH. There could be any coup against the state here, and if the minister didn't know at all that the police agencies, under the cover that he didn't have operational jurisdiction, didn't say that. So I think we should talk to ourselves and see what's good for the citizens of this country and bring regulations that will allow the minister to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7896	Thank you. Replica, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7897	Madam Chairman. I have to look back on this rather emotional and quite critical statement by the minister towards us here MPs, so with a lot of rebuke and talk, he referred to our discussions. You know what, it's not me or it's not our fault that there's been no report for three years. It is not our fault, especially from the opposition, why there is no functionality between certain structures of security at these levels, so all the parties that put those people in place. Why don't the parties take responsibility and arrange for it to work, that line and that link? The second thing or finally perhaps the most important thing in all of this is that his discussion was more content and quality than it was Information. Is that true what Mr. Secretary was talking about? Of course, I welcome Mr. Minister's statement and his determination to face the problems that are present in BiH at the moment, but all of this was to be given as his opinion in this information so that we could discuss it very well. So I urge Mr. Minister to present matters in Parliament and help Parliament to make certain steps and conclusions. The fact that there is no operational jurisdiction does not prevent this Parliament from drawing certain conclusions so as to say that these and these levels are needed and that things are arranged, if we do not have operational competences, we are not forbidden to discuss it, especially if this will lead to improvement in the functioning of an extremely important segment, such as the security segment. So I call on the minister to say what he was saying here, he said very serious things, he said that the mafia is ruling the state, he said a lot of things 103
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7898	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7899	or it seems to me, but I don't think I'm wrong, I think it's said, it's things that are extremely serious that require really serious activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7900	Thank you. Replica, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7901	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think we all heard what you said very well, Mr. Šepić, and my colleague Sadik Ahmetović joined you in it, and you realized that the Minister of Security has no operational jurisdiction, so I don't think he would call for that to change if you think everything is okay. However, all this differs from what all of you in this first row that were then, your colleagues talked about the operational alleged responsibilities of the Minister of Security. However, what may be even more important is here and I said so before, it is about the 2014 Report. Why can you, who have replaced the Minister of Security, even say the most important ministerial post in BiH, at BiH level, why you did not immediately appoint a new one? So the situation was acceptable to you for BiH to be without a security minister for a year. So what kind of responsibility is that? What kind of responsibility are you talking about then? You are thus sending a message that BiH can do without the minister of security. BiH must not be without a security minister for seven days, let alone a year as you have allowed it to happen. And that's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7902	Thank you. Also a replica, Deputy Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7903	Thank you, Chairman. This is a discussion that deserves an entire session of Parliament, because what we heard about the Corruption Prevention Agency is some educational level. These agencies of security and police and legislative and prosecution are responsible for this state of society, this degree of corruption. And finally after these discussions, why do agencies and why do those who need to fight crime and corruption not do their job because of corruption in those agencies? They don't want to object to their political mentors. There is no minister of support, no free hands because there is no political will. The minister wants to, we also suggested that he be a minister, because we know that he will try to fight with all his heart and stop the whole process, but he has no political will. If he says SIPA has bad results, support me to change the director of SIPA and not get a political will for it, it's clear he can't do anything. So at this 104 moment, we have no political will to fight crime and corruption. And not to lie to each other, that's how it is. Everyone has someone they've set up at any agency and he protects them no matter what he does. So here's the thing is whether it's matured time for different things to be set up at all levels. So this is not about agencies at BiH level, entity levels and canton levels, it's about corruption in police structures and structures of the prosecution and the judiciary. And that's the problem we should think about if there's a way to get rid of it. A lot of midwives, squishy kids, that's clear. There's no responsibility here. Here we find that a bad thing is a bad condition. Who's responsible for this? Clearly, he's not a minister because he has no authority over these cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7904	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7905	Who's responsible? So these are questions that we certainly won't solve here today, we don't have enough space to talk seriously about these things, but I hope that this energy and this desire, which at least in this honest way, the minister is trying to present, will increase the will in politics to get things started from a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7906	Thank you, Deputy Bosić. We have a second replica, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7907	I wanted to tell my dear colleague, Arnaut, that she was in opposition at the time of the shift of Minister Radončić SDA. So, and every opposition party, in principle, votes for the shift of those who are the position, so that this anger or that reason should not be something specifically directed by the SDA when, here to be a little personal, I was changed there in an explanation that was written by the chairman of Bevanda, at the request of Zlatko Lagumdžija, period and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7908	Thank you. Replica, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7909	Thank you. I accept what Mr. Bosić said was the policy behind the situation. Gentlemen, it's your authority, it's your fault. You've got a year already, what's changed since that period, and how long are we gonna fool people? Politics are guilty, it's an accurate finding, but policies are also responsible for the situation. And what is wrong now is the result of these policies here in this House, on this team that makes power at all levels. And don't let anyone else address it. There's no 105 collective but whoever formed the package is responsible. The conclusion that policies are what are true, but that also means that these policies produce a state that has no results. You know what it means in an individual's life or in a state's life for a year? It's irreparable. What have you done since you took power and where is that shift? We have a worse situation every day. We're talking big things about this, what citizens live in, where citizens live, down in the field, how much we all have to do together, and people who have to get out of their mouths to buy protection systems because they don't trust the authorities because the government doesn't work. Whoever it is, right here in Canton of Sarajevo where I live, says okay, this is the only thing that's shorted 800 cars so far. So how's it going? And where is the responsibility of the government for such a situation? Politics are those that have formed parliamentary majority, have been appointed by the executive authorities, are responsible for the actions and are to be recorded.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7910	Thank you very much. Here's the replica, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7911	Just a short while without intending to, among other things, address who's responsible. There is, of course, the responsibility of those who exercise power, but nothing less and those who are opposition. The issue of fighting crime and corruption is the question of all of us sitting here, whether we are in position or in opposition. So all the solutions that you may have to propose, promote and so on, but until we create the atmosphere that Minister Mektić showed today, all of us sitting in this Parliament and making such an atmosphere at all levels of government, it will be difficult to create an atmosphere in institutions that directly execute orders, orders in terms of fighting crime and corruption. So we have our part both as a position and as an opposition. There is no real real fight against crime and corruption and real laws that will not support the opposition. Look at the countries that are making serious strategies in the fight against crime and corruption, there is complete agreement there, because I do not believe that I want to fight crime and corruption more than you who are sitting here in opposition. I am absolutely certain that we share the same opinion when it comes to the desire to fight crime and corruption. But this man really wants it. Now if it remains at the level of only the minister and it does not receive, above all, the atmosphere in the media, in the public, here in Parliament, at every level of government, there is no result. Can't be the result of giving the Minister the authority, we can give him court and any other authority,...that he will be king of this minister so that he has every kind of authority to do so. It's not gonna happen. So we all need to create an atmosphere in the fight against crime and corruption and show our commitment that we want to deal with crime and corruption. There are things that are directly within the jurisdiction of the Ministry itself that Mr. Bosić spoke of. Let's get that part out of our jurisdiction directly and tell everyone at all levels of government that they have an obligation to fight crime and corruption. I'm sure there will be support at all levels of government. So, I don't see, so the atmosphere created, go out to the street and ask who the criminal is, and ask what they think of the politicians, so you'll see how the people label us sitting here. 99% will label us as thieves and criminals, and I'm not a criminal, I 106 don't consider myself a criminal, I'm not a criminal, and I don't want to get back together with that, and I don't think people who aren't criminals are sitting here until, of course, they're determined that someone is. I'm not saying that there may be no such thing between us, but fighting crime and corruption is something that is
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7912	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7913	the obligations and positions and the opposition and I believe that we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7914	Thank you. Debate, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7915	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I thank you, Mr. Bojić, for making me this introduction, because that's exactly what I wanted to talk about, that when it comes to the security sector, there is no position or opposition. When it's a crime fight and there's no position or opposition, we all need to be one. But why did I sign up for the debate? Because Sadik Ahmetović said that I forgot that the SDA was in opposition at the time, so I guess that's why she didn't have the responsibility to appoint a new security minister after she replaced the old one. And what he thinks he said is smart. I'm really, I mean astounded by such a single finding. So what kind of opposition is that, who's the opposition? States, security interests of BiH. Is that the opposition? That's why they didn't appoint a new security minister because they were opposition. They agreed to spend a year without the minister of security because they were opposition. That's what he said. Then he mentioned his shift, and when he was removed immediately afterwards, a new security minister was appointed. I can tell you for sure on behalf of the SBB that we would never vote for the Secretary of Security's shift, without knowing who's new and when they'll take office. Therefore, that finding is amazing, that I forget that they were the opposition. So they can replace the security minister, and they don't have a plan or want to name a new one. And here at the end, when we hear often about the protectors of Bosniak interests and so on, it wasn't just the change of the minister's security effect. The effect was also that there was only one Bošnjak left in the Council of Ministers afterwards, and since they were the opposition, they are not interested, they have no obligation to do so. So who were the opposition? So, to be clear, Mr. Bojić, we fully agree, there is no position of opposition when it comes to security issues, as far as the SBB's position is concerned, and I don't have to explain it specifically. It's very well known, not only the SBB's position on security issues, but the result of the SBB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7916	Thank you very much. At this point, I see no more reports for debates or replicas. We conclude the agenda point – Information on the state of security in BiH in 2014. 107 We move to point eight Ad. 8. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 13th session of the House, held on 10.6.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative that within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative in the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a point titled: Information from the Council of Ministers on the special parallel relations between the Bosnian Serb and Republika Srpska Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina", Act No: 01-50-1-787/15 of 10.6.2015. The House College has appointed a Constitutional Commission to consider this initiative. On 26 August 2015, the committee responsible submitted an opinion on the initiative. The initiative was not accepted. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović, come in. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7918	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I would only tell my colleagues and colleagues here that as a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I was trying to get a colleague, Mr Bećirović, so I would suggest that other articles of the Rules of Procedure be used and that this initiative was directed directly either through the College or directly to the Council of Ministers to get the text, or information we wanted to discuss, but simply it was not acceptable, he had the right to use it like this. Since that is the case, I can only propose one conclusion at the moment which will only be partially improved, so I propose this initiative in the text so that the words "the Federations of BiH and the Republic of Croatia" in the text he proposed would be added to the words "Federations of BiH and the Republic of Croatia". So, then the Initiative would have a slightly different content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7919	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion, replicas? There isn't. I thank and conclude the debate on this agenda point. We're moving to point nine Ad. Nine. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held on 30.6.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative, which reads: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives' House is tasked with preparing and setting the agenda for each regular session to establish a mandatory 108-point agenda: Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda of the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives, issue: 01-50-1-853/15 of 30.6.2015 The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for European Integration to discuss this initiative. On 26.8.2015, the committee responsible submitted an opinion on the initiative. The initiative was not accepted. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Representative Senad Šepić, please. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7921	Here's Madam Chairman, just a few sentences. So, I think the essence is clear to all of us, so we have information at every session as far as we're concerned about our European path. What might be important here to say about this plenary session, so I was really shocked that the Commission for European Integrations, which should be any thing concerning European issues, which will put and affirm that area, I expect that their interest would be to support it eventually, let's say that it refused, even though I even modified this initiative at the Commission's session to not be at every session but to be quarterly in 2015, so in 2016, when we get a little used to that one, then we do this more often. I would ask indeed today, given that you have already said that the Commission's negative opinion, regardless of the negative opinion of the Commission, is to get support for one such initiative, since I have, apart from this proposal, that within every two months, a report on the implementation of the action plan is to be found as a mandatory item of the agenda, given that today we have to have a very quick agenda and we have to have a adopted report by the Council of Ministers, so we will be able to follow through on the implementation of this action plan, and then, let's say, at one session, we could have information as information, and on the second report with a pedodlog of measures, conclusions and so on. Both would make the topics about the European path as much as possible at the sittings here in Parliament and thus force the institutions to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7922	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7923	I thank you, therefore, from this moment on as chairman of the Joint Committee on European Integrations of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it was like this at the session of yesterday, with us, to explain a little bit, when we were trying to come to a solution to support Mr. Šepić's initiative, to really be in the three-month period, because we don't think we're still at full capacity in 109 implementation of the Agreement, and I was talking at the end and at that point today on the agenda, so that I can confirm it, at this point, one part of us voted, you have the final explanation that it was on the Committee. I might suggest that I would not, of course, suggest any other conclusion because I don't think it would be as good as the president of this committee, so maybe he'll go back to the idea that we've been going to the Committee for three months now, and that in 2016 he might see that he's trying to get back to the Committee again, so if it's possible today for his colleagues to accept it, and if not, then I'm not suggesting it changes, but I suggest to him as a proposer if he can accept it, so he can go back to the formulation to be in three months, so let's see if this House can accept it, for now here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7924	Thank you. Probably the answer, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7925	So, I forgot to say in this first presentation, I thank the chairman of the Commission he really did his best to let this initiative pass. And I saw that he really understood how important it is for both his work and for the work of all of us. I accept the suggestion, here it is in 2015, twice we will have it, once in September and twice in December, with this conclusion that we will consider this again on the Commission and here at the House for 2016, in a way we are intensifying it to be more frequent. Here's if we're going to have this quarterly in this year, I accept but it's only important that this initiative doesn't fail.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7926	Thank you. So this initiative will be kind of modified.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7927	Instead of every session... so every three months.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7928	Until the vote, then you will deliver this proposal. Replica, Maja Gasal the Vražalica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7929	Unfortunately, I did not, thanks to the chairman, I did not understand from my colleague Senad Šepić, as I did not understand Mr Emrić's initiative, as in the Agenda that we had already received in June, 09 June 2015, which was a little more comprehensive and now we have this second Information Reform Agenda, and it said that the first report would be submitted on 15 November 2015. So if they made a commitment to this report and this Agenda, why are we now moving to some quarterly, at 60, 30 days, so it's absolutely not clear that we're coming into collegiation right now. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7930	Thank you very much. I see an argument, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7931	Well, I mean, it really doesn't make sense, we're all too tired and now the promoter adds and subtracts. And finally, it says here that the House College in preparation should prepare the information, tasked the House College to establish in the preparation and establishment of the agenda of each session the obligation of the item of the agenda called so. So who's going to make the materials for it? On what basis are we going to conduct the discussion? Well, is that... just so we can have a discussion, and without someone preparing it for us. Well, this isn't mature either, so just because the proposer intends to change, for the next session, let the new initiative be prepared, this doesn't make any sense. We're too tired to follow what he's changed and what isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7932	Thank you. Senad Šepić, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7933	Well, let me just explain to my colleague what I've changed. So, I just accepted the suggestion, not to be exactly what I would say, that we have this information at every session of Parliament. Instead of each of us having every three months in 2015. And when you ask colleagues Majkić, the one whose job it is, the Council of Ministers should definitely deliver this to us, I can request this at every session of Parliament in person that this is delivered to me by the Council of Ministers, and this is how I ask that we once determine it as Parliament and that it goes in that sense. I don't know what can really be...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7934	Thank you. I don't see any more reports and I'm closing the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7935	He's got Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7936	And there's Lazar Prodanović, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7937	Madam Chairman. For us, it is only acceptable what Mr. Lovrinović said, without any conditions for 2016. I think we're complicating this initiative without any need. I believe that the committees responsible, the Joint Committee on European Integration, and this Stabilisation and Association Committee have an obligation to keep under constant review and let us now accept this 111 quarter and nothing else, without any other conditions, otherwise we will not accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7938	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports now. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, No: 01,02-34-1-1007/15 of 27.7.2015 The Joint Committee on European Integration submitted a proposal to the Joint College on 15.07.2015 to include that material in the agenda of the House. On 27 July 2015, the Joint College submitted the draft decision to the procedure. It is proposed that the members of the Parliamentary Committee be appointed: Nikola Lovrinović, Chairman; Ognjen Tadić, First Vice-President; Nermina Kapetanović, Second Vice-President; Halid Genjac, Member; Saša Magazinović, Member; Fehim Škaljić, member; Aleksandra Pandurević, member; Milica Marković, member; Sifet Podžić, member; Ljilja Zovko, member; Zdenka Džambas, member; Nebojša Radmanović, member. I open the debate and note that these members are appointed members of the Commission, the Joint Committee for European Integration. Maja Gasal the Vražalica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7940	Thank you. For this part of the agenda, it was very important that we already have an answer to the information requested by our distinguished colleague, Diana Zelenika, to see who was in the number of committees, who was at the head of which commission. I am sorry, and even before I open the discussion, I do not experience people, nor judge by any quota imposed by this political system in BiH, so that no one is offended. I respect all my colleagues and colleagues based solely on humanity, the results of my work. The fact is that since the beginning of the meeting of this distinguished House, the Democratic Front and its representatives have been discriminated against on the basis of national commitment. In addition to Hrvat and Hrvatic in the HDZ of BiH, Hrva and Hrvatica there are also in the Democratic Front, it is therefore unacceptable that all quotas offered for Hrvat are occupied by MPs and MPs from the political party concerned. Since we are such a mixed party, we will propose Mr. Željko Komšić or myself, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, however you wish to be on birth basis this commission is defined or established, so the proposal of the Democratic Front or Mr. Željko Komšić or Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. I hope you will respect and stop and introduce a practice to eliminate this discrimination in this House. Thank you. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7941	Debate Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7942	Part of what I was about to say was taken by Mrs. Maja Gasal, I said Mrs. Maja, if you remember, we have an Anstein here, so there's oha, ha, ha, so much in... commissions that I no longer have words, they're probably know-it-alls, encyclopaedic knowledge are these people. On the other hand, we have those who are absolutely vegetarian, and they give, I think they contribute to this Parliament, they give a lot of information, because I would like you to tell us when, where, where, in which place, the media is denied for what they were saying. I'm talking about this opposition section. It is obvious that you forget that it is a wheel of happiness and that it is spinning and that it is not good to act this way, it is not good for the simple reason that that paw of the press you show through what you say is power, this is Parliament, this is not a parliamentary majority and government, but an equal approach to every MP, because we are all elected in direct elections. You have provided yourselves with the right to decide who, when, where he can, and only you. This must be put into effect, because the intellectual capacity of all these people must be used, not just by those who are either Einstein or Leonardo Vinci Vinci, the universal genius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7943	Thank you. The replica of Diana Zelenika, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7944	Thank you. And since I'm reporting for the first time, I warmly welcome all my colleagues. One little, one little reminder of my student days, one of my surgery professors, when we were getting ahead of who we were going to take to, that's just what happened to me once, asked me -- what did I do by nationality? I said that I was a mixed man, because we didn't get him out, and a man asks me so directly, I won't tell you what nationality it is, so what are you after your father? I said, "The Hrvatica woman, but the children count on my mother, who I say doesn't knock me down, and I put so much effort into it." I will now tell my respected colleague, that, besides her in the Democratic Foront and colleagues from the HDZ, I, as a member of the HDZ 1990, am a pure-blooded Hrvatica, meaning by mother and by father, unlike the answers I gave only once in my life to a respected professor who died in the war. Although some may think they are bigger Catholics than the Pope, I would also like to point out that I am unlike many who sit here, and they are called Hrvat, volunteers and veterans of the Homeland War, intellectual, doctor of science, too, unlike many, and when choosing the H component in this House, Bog has almost nowhere to be found. The answer to the question I haven't received yet, I didn't want to point out today, counting on you all from vacation, so give us a little bit to adjust to the situation and get it ready for next time, but here's the situation that I had to plead on this issue, but here I wanted to tell all the distinguished colleagues and colleagues of Gasal - and I'm Majo Hrvatica. Thank you very much. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7945	Thank you very much. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7946	You know, distinguished professor, distinguished professor, you know I appreciate your work very much, no, no, no, and thank you for what you've been saying, about that purity of blood. I'd love to, which you're a blood type, I'm a rh+, B+, and tell me now what's the difference between those who have B+ or A+ here when that blood is analyzed? I think we've gone far.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7948	I'm asking the MPs not to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7949	I'm not talking to each other, but I'm talking about something that's a fact, this is a House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7950	Don't be surprised when you get a warning. Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović hearing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7951	Okay, so, before I may give some answers as president of the Committee of Commons, so when it comes to how anyone feels, do', I wouldn't really go in, have every right to do what he wants, it's only important when something is going on and on and on and on when it comes to Hrvat, then let's see what it is like to be Hrvat and where it is Hrvat, but we won't talk about it because it's not a topic. When it comes to this, therefore, what the gentlemen have noticed, first of all, is that there are oppositions in the composition of this Joint Committee, so I don't know someone has said that only the government, Mr. Škaljić is there, say Mr. Magazinović, Mrs. Marković, Mr. Radmanović, so if we're going to look at it like that, then there are oppositions not only in this Committee of Two Homes. And on the other hand, I will not say that the explicit demand from Brussels came, or Geneva, but they suggested, therefore, that it would be logical for the Joint Committee on European Integration to be part of the SP Committee, so that it could continue to work together, either by them or, above all, they insisted on being MPs, certainly. Secondly, to be members of this Joint Committee, we have been holding talks with them on this, because it is normal, therefore, that this Committee, which will work on these 114 issues for the purposes of this Parliament, is involved, fully involved, and in this Committee that will monitor the implementation of the SAA. So, that was the only reason, and they didn't, I don't know, insist that now half of us can't change, so that we have half the people on the board from that committee, and then the commission is different, so we've analyzed all of this, and in the conclusion of this, here's the Commission, and that's our proposal for a decision we suggested to you and the College to do so. Nothing else, therefore, was the moment or what Mr. Backović was saying, no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7952	Thank you. The replica of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7953	I haven't looked back at whether there's any opposition or not, this is about political, party, ethnic discrimination, if you want us not to talk about blood cells, I like to really not talk about blood cells, but we can talk about the size of clubs, political parties, opposition and position and opposition and everything else. This is what it looks like when we look at the size of the club and the number of representatives in this now commission as a proposal, HDZ BiH has four MPs in this House, the Democratic Front 5, HDZ wins in the House of Peoples and in this
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7954	Don't have a dialogue. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7955	from the House of Representatives he gets the place of the Hrvat, because there are no Hrvat or hrvatica in any other club. And then, as the media like to say, we're some chain of the SDA, dear lady, we're no one's pendant, we're a civil social democratic, democratic, whatever you want, an option that has all one citizen in it, and we can fill this quota with our capacity. What the European Parliament is asking for or not, is that the European Parliament is familiar with the information as far as anyone is chairing which committee and who is no longer able to be on one committee, because it is chairing there in the other three committees, so some cannot be established would certainly not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7956	President Kristo Replic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7957	I'm sorry to have to, I really don't have the potential for something called counting blood cells, but of course I hold to what it is BiH, it's a state of three constituent peoples of Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and other citizens living in it. We're talking about political representatives here, and that's not a taboo topic. Someone points out that someone wants to count blood cells, I haven't told anyone, as my colleague Lovrinović said before, that I forbid someone or that I feel like someone feels one way or another. To which people one belongs it is entirely his right, whether it was a choice by father, by mother, or by another, or for daily, 115 purposes. I feel what I am, a member and a representative of the Croatian people and those candidates who are proposed here in this commission, and the Hrvat are, they are political representatives of the Croatian people. Thank you. Replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7958	I'm afraid this House in, this House in this state's Parliament is not turning into something quite different from what it should be, this is a House of Representatives, that's what it's called and it's not called the House of Peoples and it's defined and it's made up of representatives from one entity and another entity, not from Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, because we have it in the House of Peoples. Of course, we can be politically different. Now that we have to look at this House right now, then I agree with you, Mrs. Borjana, but also Maja Gasal, I Željko your pardon, but that is the case, and Željko Komšić and my distinguished professor, and these are the people who declare themselves to be Croatian provinces, let us respect that in this House. As I now speak for myself and here Mr. Fehim Škaljić, Zaim Backović, jasmin, Denis Bećirović are Bošnjak, not some from the sky have fallen, but SDA treats them so, I don't know how long. As my distinguished professor Hanka Vajzović Bošnjak did not fall from Mars, I apologize for what, which, because you are very complicated within this except for that Ahmetović who got away from you, when it comes to the province and belonging to the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7959	Thank you. Discussion jasmin Emrić, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7960	I thank the chairman. Analyzing the proposed Decision, I find that this proposal is discriminated against by two political entities that are part of this House of Representatives, it is A-SDA and BPS, if, and HDZ 1990, if the principle of representation, represented by all political entities, then it should have been respected. We have information that there is no conditionality when it comes to the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly and the European Parliament, so that the principle of representation of all political entities can be respected, which would make sense. I therefore propose that this decision be amended and the principle that all political entities that are part of the House of Representatives should be represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7961	Thank you. Replica Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7962	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 116 I have now consulted, I think this is, I have realized, but I have now been confirmed that this composition that has been proposed is therefore the composition of the Joint Commission for European Integration, so there are no changes, etc. which means once upon a time this composition was voted at the House of Representatives. This, and then the DF did not dispute it and the House of Peoples, of course, because it is a joint commission, this DF did not dispute it at that time, and the DF probably did not dispute it at the same session because it was also voted on by Mr Komšić to be a permanent member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe, one of the 5 permanent members, at the same session, it was also voted that Mr Komšić would be the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, so that indeed objectively, all of this seems to me to be illegally making media headlines about something that was not really an accident. And you got me to do something I really hate, uh, but here's the proposal for three Hrvat, four Bošnjak and five Srbin, so what difference does it make, I think. But now I'm saying again, if what I've been confirmed is true, this is the composition of the Joint Commission on European Integration, so what are you making a case about, why didn't you make a case when that Commission was formed? If you had made the case then, maybe Željko Komšić would not have been the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, perhaps Željko Komšić would not have been a member, a permanent member of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe, so I really don't think that now is the time to open this, then you should have opened it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7963	Thank you. Second replica, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7964	Dear fellow Arnaut, it is the same to compare it with your pulsism when you, as the protectors of women in BiH, indicated that you should be women as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in all of the commission of temporary, ad hoc, and that someone told you from, here, positions so well give it to the SBB, i.e. that the SBB proposes a woman we turn around and there is no woman. Nowhere does it say to any member of the Rules of Procedure, no commission, that members of the Commission for European Integration must be absolute members here, I am nowhere, if someone had met me then I would have thought about it. Now would Mr Komšić be or wouldn't be, what if he were, now is the point of the agenda and we're talking about discrimination and we're talking about this proposal and you as an opposition have absolutely the right to submit your proposals on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7965	Second replica, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7966	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Now I'm, I'm told that it was our populism, I guess, when we pointed out that there were no women in the Council of Ministers, etc., so wait, that's not populism, that's a legal provision. So, the law of BiH requires it. The OHR sent us all a letter, including you, reminding us that BiH law requires this, and we, of course, pointed out that the legal provision was violated when the Council of Ministers confirmed only two women and looking at both ministers and deputies. So, of 20 of them exactly, only two women, 10%. So it's not populism, it's a legal obligation. 117 E now as regards the Club of the SBB, we are, therefore, in order to really introduce changes, i.e. to bring amendments and additions to the Election Law, which will ensure that the lists we, like all others, have been made between 40 and 50% of men and women, members of the less-represented sex, to reflect this on the choice as well. However, current legal solutions do not allow it, so the choice becomes what it is. And while you mention it, then I will remind you that at one point, the SBB had one minister and one deputy in the BiH Council of Ministers, just as the DF currently has one minister and one deputy. However, in the case of the SBB, it is now necessary to correct itself, it was one minister and one deputy minister, and the DF and that was when we first had the chance to enter the Council of Ministers, so we entered, with one minister and one deputy. And the first time he got a chance to join the Council of Ministers, the DF entered with a minister and a deputy minister, to see that
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7967	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7968	Regulation on the native sensitive language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7969	Replica Mirsad Đonlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7970	You know, my colleague Maja opened a very interesting question, and I would now refer to a debate that, in this moment, I had with the chairman Džaferović, that we had offered both by education and by competence, by language knowledge and by exceptional experience in international relations of certain commission members, so they couldn't pass. I think it is more competent and it is more important that these people who will represent BiH in terms of knowledge of the issue and in terms of representativeness be in individual commissions. I think it's more incomparable than this debate that we're having right now, what we're discussing right now. Of course, I haven't called for a moment of nationality, especially given what my colleague Arnaut said, 3, 4, 5, - 3 Bošnjak, 4 Hrvat or 5 Srbin who are in this commission, I haven't called on it for a moment, I was pleased with that explanation that Damir Arnaut made when there was talk about this. But I advocate that BiH and this Parliament should be represented by those who know, who have experience, who know languages and who will best present both this Parliament and BiH, especially abroad, if that is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7971	Thank you. Replica Željko Komšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7972	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. 118 To solve this tape, this is already pointless, becoming, entertaining the people in this way. Mr. Arnaut, Madam Chairman, as far as I'm concerned, you have both my positions, but if Mr. Arnaut will get them. Do you think I'm worse than the desire to travel, the commissions, and everything that's been said and everything that you're talking about, I've been through and seen. So, consider from this moment on that I am not the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I will even enjoy that I am not, because what I am experiencing and seeing has nothing to do with law, as well as here is Mr Arnaut, immediately I suggest you vote to be a member of the permanent committee that will go to the Council of Europe. I hope you're satisfied. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7973	Thank you. Hanko Vajzović's debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7974	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to make it clear that we in the DF have been feeling kind of discriminated in this regard in some kind of division of commission membership for a long time. It's a shame we didn't get it and it was good, it was a good request from colleague Diana Zelenika, to get that list where whoever was assigned, simply and the rights and obligations to be, to be equal opportunities to everyone. It was just an illustration here, I didn't understand my colleague Arnaut that this was something that was already voted on, I didn't understand what it was about. If it's voted I don't know why this point is going to be here now, if this is the same composition as why we've got it now. So it was just, it was just an illustration that five MPs in one club get... in some commission, here was this Commission as an example, one place and four MPs, here in particular in HDZ get two, we're talking about the House of Representatives, because here we are talking about and only that, the House of Peoples is, no matter what the Commission is. And just that was the problem, it was transferred to ethnicity, which is what, but in the schedule of this really isn't, it doesn't sound correct. At one place DF, SBB, SDP, two SDAs, the Alliance for Change and the SNSD and three HDZ of these, it was just that it was not correct to deploy, and there is no balance and that is what I think here and these were saying, if each political entity would be then it is. What's the criterion? It's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7975	Thank you. Replica Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7976	I won't be long, but the correction, from the House of Representatives, is just me, and from the House of Peoples, therefore, are Mrs. Zovko and Mrs. Džambas. So the HDZ House of Representatives is one.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7977	Thank you very much. 119 I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct the procedure of selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1051/15 of 23.07.2015. The temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, on 23.07.2015, submitted a report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency. The proposal for a ranking is Vlado Simeunović, Mila Gadžić, Zoran Selesković. I'm opening a debate. Asim Sarajlić, MP, please welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7979	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, at the SDA Club, by considering this Commission proposal, we have analysed and we have nothing against the work of the Commission, so we have no objections to their proposal, we have problems with the essence. So, a total of 11 candidates have applied to the competition for members of the Administrative Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, of 11 candidates it is also necessary to satisfy the national quota, here we see that the proposed Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, i.e. the Srbin, Hrvatica and Bošnjak, is whether. So, we from the SDA next to Mr Zoran Selesković and Mrs Lejla Hajrulahović at the Club have discussed, we would prefer to support Ms. Lamija Tanović, however, she remained. And we have been given an explanation at the Club that we cannot plead at Parliament today for Ms. Lamija Tanović and we would, in fact, ask the House, or that this competition is completely annulled and renewed, or that in part of the Bosniak candidate's election, because we really only have a chance today to discuss a single candidate, this Mr. Selesković, whom I really don't know, with all due respect, because the only Bošnjakinja from this list of ladies or Mrs. Lejla Hajrulahović has given up. So I ask you to respect this remark and ask your Kolega to consider whether to partially cancel the competition or to cancel the contest altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7980	Thank you. Nenad Lalić's hearing, please. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7981	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, ministers and others present, here I would briefly after I was chairman of the Interim Commission to clarify and to respond to my fellow Members, I think there would be a realistic solution here being chosen, here the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency has 10 members of the Management Board, of which 5 members should be regular teachers. As the first competition is announced for three candidates and the next competition is now announced for 4, so we agreed to apply and I think it is the most objective solution that is already, I think that Lamija and signed up and submitted the documents, 25 candidates have arrived, we will already schedule an appointment in some future period, open the envelopes and schedule the interview. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7982	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7983	Here we are, thanks to the chairman, we have just touched the reform agenda, where we will not, with the reform agenda we will start to employ, name the best ranked. It is really not clear to me that the competition is being called and now if someone declares himself to be a member of the order of others, although it is such an ugly name, although it meets all the conditions why it could not be either she or he first on the list regardless of his political, national, ethnic or any other commitment, because that is why the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination obliges us to do so. So it is absolutely not clear to me that something is now either down or not down, which meets the conditions why it was not in that first competition that everyone is able to apply and be adequately evaluated based on their kopete. Because right now at this point, at this previous point, we've talked about co-petences so that the Dom itself should respect kopetences, languages, some don't even talk all three of these local languages of BiH, let alone a foreign language. So I don't really know what this Home is to itself anymore is contradictory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7984	Thank you. Replica, Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7985	Sarajlić would like it before me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7986	Mr. Sarajlić. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7987	I am in the introduction, the replica is Mrs Maji, so I am in the introduction, not at all entering the competence of the staff, but obviously from the Commission's proposal, to take care of the national structure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7988	That's what the law requires.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7989	And of course, Mr. Selesković, who pleads as Bošnjak, I said in advance, I don't know his references, but we've been reduced by choice. Therefore, the Commission was also reduced to the possibility of choosing to give up Mrs or Miss Lejla Hajrulahović. I personally know Professor Tanović, not from miles of political option, but we agreed at the club yesterday, that we would very much like to vote for Professor Tanović, but we are unable because the rest will be elected on the next commission. Therefore, I would ask that, in part, that competition be annulled or in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7990	Thank you. Debate, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7991	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think here is the biggest problem, it's about high education and the biggest problem is that all three of the most ranked candidates, you can determine it by simple Internet search, have very strong party connections, uh, not even former party functions. So it's no secret how this ranking list is sorted -- the same way the ruling majority does it on other appointments, so that's really the biggest problem here. We have pointed out many times before, many times we have pointed out the need for people to choose on the basis of their competences, not party membership. However, this is absolutely not the case here, but here I am again saying, with a simple Internet search, for all three you will establish very strong party connections and, of course, these are parties that are currently part of the ruling coalition and there are absolutely no secrets. I don't think anyone's trying to hide it, so I don't know if this whole national story is really just a mask to name party personnel here at the High-Level Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Because then we'll never develop higher education like that. We recently had a report on this, the world's top-ranked BiH university is 2,700 and somewhere. You know how disastrous it is, when you compare it to Zagreb, which is in 400 and some place, it's bad, and when 400 and some place compare it to 2,700 and some place, it's catastrophic. Well, neither will we develop higher education, nor will we provide quality. So to me, I think this is very indicative, when these stories begin, the bickering between different members of the ruling coalition, about who the folk issues are and then the next item of the agenda is called party personnel. And then, with absolute right, I can question 122 really the purpose of such national bickering. It's a show for the people, and then no one notices that actually party people have been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7992	Thank you. Replica, Nermina Kapetanović reported earlier. Well, I'm sorry, there's been a change because she gave in to Mr. Sarajlić. So here's Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7993	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I've made it possible for the president of the club to explain why it's such an attitude. I support what Mr. Arnaut and several colleagues have said. As a member of that same Commission in the previous meeting, I know the way that candidates and points were run and scored last time, and that is one of the reasons why I think this proposal for a respected professor, Mrs. Lamija Tanović, is quite correct and an office. I am one of those who advocates that final knowledge, expertise, education, truly competent people come to terms, especially in such important working bodies, supervisory committees, and I am not in favour of such positions being strictly controlled. Here's Mrs. Lamija Tanović, professor of honor, professor doctor, with whom I truly have no personal connection, has very high references and I dare say that this is not exactly about all three candidates. There are also candidates who have scientific titles and I want to say that I support everyone, and this is also about the previous discussion, so we abstained from the discussion, all those who support and the government, the final rule of education, the knowledge of foreign languages, European integration and, therefore, the knowledge from basic education that is coming, it is impossible that a person who does not have a college education, a very high education, and especially an academic career, is impossible to.... I mean, so I'm really up for something like that. That's why I think this proposal for a respected professor, Dr. Lami Tanović, would be very correct and to the extent that it can be partially changed. One of the committees that I currently chair, which treats, say, a working body, prescribes very high standards in which academic education, professor's education and teaching training are required, for example, for 10 years at reference colleges. And that's scientific learning knowledge and that should be respected. On the other hand, I think Mr Sarajlić's proposal is correct, and I also support the discussion of my distinguished colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7994	Thank you. Replica, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7995	Thank you, Chairman. Here's to what I think about, I mean three agencies that cover education at the state level, and education we know is definitely on cantons, at least in the Federation, I don't think it's agencies that make a lot of progress. I wanted to replicate my colleagues to Arnaut, 123 questions – what is being investigated as party? Well, please, we have an independent committee today, so they're all party crazy. Well, it's always so with us, that politics sets up and there's still a problem, if it's called an independent body or whatever. What in this sense I want to ask as a question, I don't know, if anyone can answer. Here's from the Commission. Is it, and that is a big political question, did the competition say that someone who pleads like the others can't possibly be considered? Why did Professor Tanović report, if she had a warning, that only three people from three constituent nations could be selected? We cheat on citizens, they report, and it is known in advance that a position belongs to Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and then those to whom it will not belong. If the Serbian place is both Bošnjak and Hrvat and collect documents, it is reported of course, it is known in advance that it will not pass in such a order, vice versa. I'm interested. Are such warnings with competitions going? It is an important political issue, and perhaps a solution to what MP Sarajlić has asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7996	Thank you. Replica, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7997	Thank you. I'd like to replicate a colleague who was a member of this committee. You know, I stand for competence, but here's the end, and I accept BiH's reality as it is. So you can't get away from it. But when I look at this table, this is ridiculous. Please, Srbin, Hrvatica, Bošnja, first, second, third. I would understand that the Srbin is the first, Bošnjak the third, or Hrvatica the third and Bošnjak the sixth. So says one Srbin, one Hrvat, one Bošnjak. But where exactly are the three to be first, second and third? I mean, that's, that's just amazing. So don't do it like this. Do differently, I would rather accept the truth to be told - no, we choose the best-ranked Srbin, the best-ranked Hrvat and the best-ranked Bošnjak, they are the first, third and sixth. And all right, I'll back it up. But something like this, this really doesn't make sense. Here's just to tell the Commission that she's working a little smarter in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7998	Thank you. Zaim Backović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u7999	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At this regular session, thank you for the introduction of Mrs. Vajzović, you gave me the creamword and I have to say so in the form of a replica, I replicate to you. The biggest corruption in this country is in education and the point. On my own example – after the end of the war in 124 BiH, i.e. aggression, since all I have left is the defense of the master's work that I handed over before the beginning of the aggression, this is what I was told – let us quickly crush it and come for the professor, because your father, who is in that university, is going to retire quickly. And you're familiar with it today, and even here what the gentleman was saying here, you should see when who, what is, where is who and how is, except for Mrs. Tanović's honorable name, excepting, very precisely, because I know her well, that teachers become four years before retirement, to doctorate two years before retirement and get the department. I'll give you as many as you want. As long as you want by name and last name. That in economics is the youngest professor, I say by internship, not by age, a man who became a professor when he was 58. You heard exactly what I said when I was 58. He doctored with 57 and got everything express. And he'll retire in six years. It's hard for us to come with us. It's hard on us. That corruption is something that kills this country. It's corruption that will destroy the foundations of this country. We get uneducated people, unusable people and people who
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8000	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8001	They don't know what they want and they don't know how to do it. That's the problem. And you in health care are a special story. Don't make me talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8002	Thank you. Replica, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8003	Thank you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8004	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8005	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Uh, I'm glad to be here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8006	Mr. Backović, don't speak out loud. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8007	Thank you. I'm glad that this is where you should get up when you speak, because everyone should get up when they mention Professor Tanović's name and, most of all, I find it extremely inappropriate for the SDA to now advocate something for Professor Tanović. Because when the head of Sarajevo University was elected, why didn't you choose Professor Lami Tanović, but instead you chose Hasan Muratović, and here I was just talking about very strong party ties, and I don't know if I can be stronger than when the rector of the University of Sarajevo was elected by 125 Hasan Muratović and the SDA, could they have been stronger those party ties. Therefore, I don't know who you're trying to deceive by now pushing for Professor Tanović, when you didn't support her, or obstructing her choice for the rector of Sarajevo University. As for Mrs Vajzović's comment, I'm not bored, I'm absolutely not bored. I find, the political realities imposed on us by this parliamentary majority. But the DF was saying that the renamings would be conducted exclusively by profession, but I guess you got caught up in these political realities, too, so you adapted to these political realities. I don't know what's going on, but in any case, I don't bother, I understand these political realities, I realize that they will be in force as long as this parliamentary majority is, and that is unfortunately why the best-ranked university in BiH is 2,700 and some place. Now you share it with the number of countries, so you see, countries in the world, about 193, and you see how catastrophic that is, it means how many universities are ahead of us from even less-realized countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8008	Thank you. Debate, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8009	Thank you, Chairman. I am a member of the Ad hoc Commission who has selected, evaluated and selected members for the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency. What I would like to say exactly to Mr Arnaut, that exactly, in this selection and evaluation, indeed a ranking of all candidates, where the best, representative, or candidate of Croatian nationality, is proposed, the best candidate of Serbian nationality and the best and only, unfortunately, candidate from Bosniak nationality. In this evaluation, she led far the most, and the only one who received 100 points in my assessment was Professor Lamija Tanović, who I really greatly respect, but in the interview she also stressed that as a member who pleads as the others, she was aware that she could not be elected in this first election because one Bošnjak, one Srbin, one Hrvat, along with other criteria for being a regular teacher, and one of the three chosen ones did not have to be a regular professor. So that's something that unfortunately by law on the Higher Education Agency, the quality of higher education defined and we didn't have an impact on that. In this next competition, when the mandates for four other members of the Management Board stand out, it will be possible to elect four more members, and that is, I think, already published an invitation for application, a preliminary advantage has been given to Professor Tanović, whom we consider to be an extremely high-quality and respectable person with references that are important for the work of this Agency and who is already working as a member, has been engaged as a member of the Agency's Management Board. So I'm really sorry that at this point we're saying this to, we're bringing it down to other than the national and political aspect, which at this point the DF whose representative I was in that, the member of that Commission, didn't have a candidate, probably won't have, and they're not really valued as party members, parties, but as people by competence. Thank you very much. 126
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8010	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I thank and conclude the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, issue: 01.02-34-1-1050/15 of 23.07.2015. The interim joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the appointment procedure of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH on 23.07.2015, submitted the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a ranking of candidates for the selection of the Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH. The proposal for a ranking list is as follows: Ante Boras 94, Željka Markić-SekulićSekulić 84, ___________(?) They don't hear you enough, they say they want to hear you a little louder. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8015	Maja Gasal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8016	I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8017	Write now, Maja Gasal, and suggest you... our proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8018	Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8019	Predrag Kožul...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8020	Predrag Kožul
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8021	Maja Gasal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8022	What's your proposal? ____________(?) Aleksandar.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8023	Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8024	Aleksandra Pandurović. We'll make a proposal, we'll vote later. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 14. ________________(?) I'm sorry. I signed up. [[no microphone turned on]] 128 There's nothing recorded. No, nothing was a replica or a debate. Is there anything important you need to tell us about this point? Come on, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8026	That's the point for the Independent Committee. Since it was not well heard, then I actually wanted, there were some proposals, a suggestion that this would be withdrawn, since Minister Mektić had also withdrawn his own, I remain in the formation of an Ad hoc commission which, therefore, would not prejudge anything, but would examine the work of the Independent Committee with the accent, perhaps I add, to conflict of interest, since it is highly questionable that independence, as the Independent Committee is called, independence, which has shown whether and even so far their relationship with the legal obligations, according to the Rules of Procedure, is their and everything else. So, the commission should just examine their work so far, submit a report to us and that's all. It is not a matter of election procedure for the director, as a reason why Minister Mektić withdrew his request for President Krunić's replacement, out of the question, they are still working, until the commission does its part of the job and does what she is ordered to do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8027	Thank you. We've closed the debate. Before we move to item 14 of the agenda, I suggest that the House declares itself on the unification of the debate on points 14 to 16 of the agenda, as it is about giving consent to ratification of the agreement. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Vote now. 29 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. The entity majority does. So the proposal has been adopted, and we've come together to discuss these two points. Ad.14. up to 16. You've been given the authority's opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate on points 14 to 16. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. And we've exhausted today's session agenda. I suggest we take a vote. How much do you think it takes? Fifteen to eight, okay? So at 7:45 here, voting on the agenda. Hanka wanted something. I don't know if this is a mistake. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8029	I did. I wanted to, now I stayed confused, the last time we chaired the Honorable Chairman Džaferović, we made a decision to go to this Ad hoc commission, but we stopped at the moment when members were to be appointed. Is that what it was supposed to be now or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8030	Well, we've already suggested. We suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8031	And I didn't, and then I passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8032	Can we go? May I have your attention, we're going to vote. First item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Let's vote on the record. Did I understand the repetition or is it okay? Recurrence. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'd like to ask you a little bit of consideration to be as careful as we can to repeat the vote as possible. Let's vote for the record, now. 34 for, nothing against, nothing abstention, has an entity majority, means everything. We adopted the minutes from the 15th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Moving to point 3. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the bill now, in the first reading. 37 for, nothing against, nothing abstention. I find that the draft law on first reading violations has been adopted. We're going to point 4. – Discussing the agreed reform agenda in connection with the European route to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material. We are voting on a proposal to take the reform agenda into account. Let's vote now. 34 for, no problem, no abstentions, anyone looking for a repeat? 130 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8037	We're going to the second round now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8038	We're going to the second round of voting. Let's vote now. 19 for, of that 18 from the Federation, so 13 is against, 5 is restrained. The Federation is 18, one, so we don't have enough, we have 10, that's right, from Republika Srpska v, but it's not adopted. So I'm realizing that the proposal for a conclusion hasn't been adopted. We move on to the proposal of the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative, who reads, you know. Let's vote now. 22 for, 11 against, 4 abstentions, we do not have enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Do you want a match right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8039	I'm in, yeah, yeah. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8040	Is there a consensus?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8041	No, there's no consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8042	There's no consent. I find that there is no agreement. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Let's vote now. 23 for, against 12, 2 abstentions. So, from Federation 22 to, uh, 10 against Republika Srpska. So this proposal didn't get the required majority, in the second round, of course. We are going to propose the conclusion of Commissioner Dušanka Majkić, who already reads: To deliver information for 30 days, to get to know Parliament. Let's vote now. Twenty-six for, six against, five abstentions. He's got the entity majority enough. I find this conclusion has passed. We're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić, you know what it's like to read? Let's vote now. 19 for, 13 against, 5 abstentions, so we don't have enough from the RS. We're going to get a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8043	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8044	We're going to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8045	No, so I'm saying we didn't agree. We're going to the second round of voting. Let's vote now. 18 for, 14 against, 10, there are not enough representatives, so, against the Federation. I find that, yes, this proposal has not been adopted in the second round of voting. Moving to point 5. – Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2014. Let's vote on the adoption of the report, now. 132 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do it again? We repeat the vote, now. _________(?) There is one proposal for a conclusion that you did not take into account....
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8049	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8050	Do you agree? Then we'll do so in this second situation when it comes to initiative. [[Common discussion]] So let's vote first on Mr Arnaut's conclusion: To delete Chapter 3 of paragraph 1 and to turn the current items 2, 3, 4 and 5 into items 1, 2, 3 and 4. Let's vote now. 33 for, no __________(?) You can repeat, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8056	He has Momčilo Novaković....
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8057	What do you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8058	Given that I have made a proposal that changes Mr. Šepić's conclusions in part, so I am willing to vote if the conclusion is changed, because it is not worth voting on my conclusion if we plead earlier on Mr. Šepić's conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8059	We vote for Šepić's conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8060	First we vote on the request, that is, the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo's representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8061	No, no, we're voting on Mr. Šepić's amended conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8062	And then you accept that we don't vote, so he accepts
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8063	So I accept the amended conclusion, so what Mr. Šepić has accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8064	This, please, you have suggested that the conclusion of Senad Šepić in the seventh row behind the word "in and BiH" be added to the text "in line with the Constitution". So, you accept that, that's what I'm asking you, so we don't have to vote on it, you accept it. So now we're voting on a proposal from Senad Šepić, which has been modified according to this, I understand very well. 135 Let's vote now. With 28 votes for, 5 against, 3 abstentions, with a sufficient ethnic majority. I agree that we have accepted the modified proposal for the conclusion of Mr Senad Šepić, modified with the proposal of Representative Momčilo Novaković. That's what we've exhausted these proposals for conclusions. Moving to point 8. – Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 13th session of the House, held on 10.06.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative that within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative in the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a point titled: Information from the Council of Ministers on the special parallel relations between the Bosnian Serb and Republika Srpska entities, with a special reference to respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina." Here I would like to note that we also have a proposal for the conclusion of Nikola Lovrinović, which only says that the words "Serbia" add to the words "both the Federation of BiH and the Republic of Croatia". Should we vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8065	There's intervention, there's a commission's conclusion, we're voting on the commission's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8066	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8067	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8068	It doesn't matter,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8069	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8070	This isn't.... doing well, voting on the initiative
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8071	We vote on the initiative, we don't vote on opinions just so you know about the Rules of Procedure. Just do you accept as the applicant of this initiative, the proposal to vote on this proposal by Mr Nikola Lovrinović, who would in some way modify?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8072	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8073	You don't accept, nor should we vote. Okay. We vote first on MPs' initiative 136 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We'll vote later, now you know he's not accepting, I just said we'd accept, we'd do both in one case and in another to accept... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8077	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We're voting on a negative report today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8078	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8079	Please, we have a negative report from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8080	It's not, it's not about the law, we're voting on the initiative, no matter what opinion it's delivered to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8081	So we have the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8082	No, it's not, it's not the law. It's not the law. Please vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Nikola Lovrinović. Let's vote now. That's right, Nikola Lovrinović. With six votes to, 24 against, abstention 7.. I konstatirati that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required majority. 137 We vote on the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović. We vote now. 19 votes for, 14 against, abstention 4, not enough entity majority from the RS. Consensus. So I'm saying we didn't agree. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Vote now. 10.4 from the entity, so against, we don't have enough numbers, so of a total of 19, versus 14, abstention 4, we don't have enough numbers against the RS. Right? There is, from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8083	There are 2/3 of RS pressures and
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8084	It's from the RS, but it's not from the Federation. I find that in the second round of voting, Denis Bećirović's initiative has not passed. Wait a minute. Moving to point 9. – Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held on 30.06.2015, which reads as follows: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the House College to establish, in preparation and establishment of the agenda, a mandatory item of the agenda called: Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path. I propose that the colleagues of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a part of the agenda of the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives." We vote on the adoption of an initiative that has been modified in a way that "information should be considered at the House session every three months instead of each session. Is he okay? Let's vote now. With 28 votes for, 4 against, 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I understand that Senad Šepić's initiative has been adopted. We're going to point 10. – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament, Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We are voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision proposing that the second deputy, Halid Genjac member, Saša Magazinović member, Fehim Škaljić member, Aleksandra Pandurević member, Milica Marković member, Sifet Podžić member, Ljilja Zovko member, Zdenka Džambas member and Nebojša Radmanov. I am making a motion to vote. Let's vote now. With 28 votes for, 9 against, no abstentions, with a sufficient ethnic majority. I agree that we have elected members of the Parliamentary Committee in the composition: Nikola Lovrinović Chairman, Ognjen Tadić First Vice-President, Nermina Kapetanović Second Vice-President, Halid Genjac Member, Saša Magazinović Member, Fehim Škaljić Member, Aleksandra Pandurević 138 members, Milica Marković member, Sifet Podžić member, Ljilja Zovko member, Zdenka Džambas member and Nebojša Radmanov's member. Other proposals, since this proposal has received the required majority, are not voted. Moving to point 11. – The selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct the procedure of selecting three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. We are voting on the package, on the selection of three members of the Management Board according to a ranking submitted by the Interim Joint Commission in names: Vlado Simeunović, Mila Gadžić and Zoran Selesković. Let's vote now. With one vote in, 33 against and 3 abstentions. I realize we don't have a general majority and this ranking list hasn't been adopted. If I were to tell you, just a little bit, just a little bit, please, since it was in the context of the debate, and if no one had suggested that we be at least effective, here would be my proposal to conclude: To assign the commission appointed by this House to immediately proceed to the tender procedure for positions that are in accordance with the law, with an expired mandate. Do you mind? Do you accept that proposal? Now let's vote on the proposal. With 20 votes for, 10 against, abstentions 7, there's enough entity majority. I conclude that this proposal is, therefore, adopted, and is tasked by the Commission to cancel, means, tender and to implement a re-proceeding procedure for the selection of three members of the Higher Education Development Agency, quality assurance at the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Moving to point 12. – Selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. We are voting on the selection of the Deputy Director of the Agency according to the order on the ranking provided by the Interim Joint Commission. So we are voting on the first-ranked candidate Ante Boras, who is also the proposal of this College. Let's vote now. With 25 votes for, 6 against, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have made the choice of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH in person, Mr. Ante Boras. Moving to point 13. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer: MP Hanko 139 Vajzović. We are voting on the appointment of representatives: Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražica, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Let's vote now. With 25 votes for, 12 against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have appointed the Joint Committee of both homes to review the work of the Independent Committee from the House of Representatives in persons: Maja Gasal-Vražalica, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić. We move to a vote on the proposal, first I am going with a proposal to declare the vote on points 14 to 16. Who's up for it, let's vote now. With 33 votes for, 2 against, nothing abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have made a positive statement to vote together in points 14 to 16 in the package. And now I am voting to give consent to ratifying the material referred to in points 14 to 16. Let's vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8085	/No Peacephone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8086	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8087	...now, so, there's a record of Damir Bećirović's voice – for, the man's not there, now I don't know if it's usually happening or [[Common discussion]] Yeah, so this place right here is empty.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-08-27-0.u8089	We have a printout not registered, it says it's not present. Please, since we've come to terms with this. With 21 votes for, 2 against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have given consent to ratifying material from points 14 to 16. I hereby conclude the 16th session of the House of Representatives, noting that the next House session is planned for 16 September 2015. Thank you all for your cooperation and for your constructive contribution. Session completed at 8:29 p.m.
