ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21109	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 3rd emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests are invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, here is the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Mladen Ivanić, and I welcome him on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present guests and MPs. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the College of the House of Peoples – Mr Bariš Čolak, Ognjen Tadić and Safet Softić, who are present for today's session. Today's session was justified by MPs Milica Marković and Dušanka Majkić. A total of 34 MPs are present, according to information from the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the 3rd Emergency Session of the House has been convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure with one item of the agenda, as you know and indicated in the call. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I'm closing the debate. I find that today's session has one item on the agenda. Agenda 1. Confirming the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Confirmation of the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, I would like to give you only introductory notes and remind you that the procedure for confirming the appointment of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Also Article 5(4). The BiH Constitution prescribes a way of appointing the BiH presidency and Council of Ministers. The newly appointed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, delivered a decision on the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy 2 of the BiH Council of Ministers, together with signed statements of candidates whose form and content was prescribed by the Central Election Commission containing the information referred to in Article 10d), item 1 point (a), indents 1 to 6. The BiH Council of Ministers Act, official confirmations of the Central Election Commission in accordance with Article 10c) of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which confirms that the proposed candidates for ministers and deputy ministers meet all the necessary conditions for the appointment and final report on the truthfulness of the information made up by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, in connection with the appointment process. The election committee of the BiH Council of Ministers held a meeting, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and gave the House of Representatives a recommendation to confirm the proposed persons for those positions in the Council of Ministers. That's a report you need to get at any moment. I will now comply with Article 156(4). The rules of procedure invite the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić to read the Decision on the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Mr. Zvizdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21110	The Honorable Chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Ivanić, the distinguished members of the House of People's College, and the Vice-President and Vice-President of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of BiH, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and representatives of the BiH Parliament, I welcome you all very much, and I will read to you the Decision appointing ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. So, for ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, they are named Igor Crnadak as foreign minister; Mirko Šarović as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; Vjekoslav Bevanda for Minister of Finance and Treasury; Slavko Matanović for Minister of Communications and Transport; Adil Osmanović for Minister of Civil Affairs; Semih Borovac za ministrica za ljudski pravo i izbjeglica; Josip Grubeša for Minister of Justice; Dragan Mektić for Minister of Security and Marina Pendeš for Defence. BiH Ministers' Deputy Ministers' Council of Ministers Josip Brkić is named as Deputy Foreign Minister; Mato Franjičević as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; Mirsad Žuga as Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury; Đorđe Miličević as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs; Predrag Jović za zamjenik ministar za ljudski pravo i izbjeglica; Nezir Pivić as Deputy Minister of Justice; Mijo Krešić as Deputy Minister of Security; Emir Suljagić as Deputy Defence Minister and Boris Jerinić as Deputy Minister of Defence. For the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Vjekoslav Bevanda and Mirko Šarović are named. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21111	Thank you. 3 Dear ladies and gentlemen, the debate now follows our Rules of Procedure after the Presidential Council of Ministers' read, and after the debate on the confirmation vote. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Zaim Backović answered first for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21112	Before I start discussing, I've been listening now, there's been some kind of disharmonicity, there's nine ministers and there's supposed to be ten deputies, you've read nine and nine names, one name is missing. It's our duty to keep an eye on what's going on. So it's read 9:9. According to our Council Act, it's 9:10. What's the catch? Can we have that answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21113	Thank you very much. Next word came from Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go. The chairman of the Council of Ministers may give clarifications after all discussions that he does not go out every time for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21114	I also have an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21115	Mr. Backović, you were a member of the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers' election and you know exactly what this is about. Let us hear all the discussions and afterwards, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will give answers to the questions he considers necessary to answer if he decides to do so. If you want to discuss I will return the matter, therefore, back, start discussing and give your discussion that you are not considered to have spent time in this intervention as a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Backović. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21116	Nothing, nothing, everything's fine. Saša won't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21117	No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21118	Today we are entering a process called the Council of Ministers' election and is very important for the functioning of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, it should give people a chance to create. He's got a few dilemmas. The first is that it's less than 10% of women. Less than 10% of women in the Council of Ministers, I really can't understand it as a man. Even less than in Parliament. Unbelievable. Political subjects seem to only function on an ego male, there are only men. 4 The next dilemma, which had no regard for malpractice, after I had the opportunity to ask questions, which still will have to go a little deeper, I expected to enter, a number has reacted extremely, a number has shown that it knows neither the basics of the Dayton Peace Agreement, or our Constitution, which is very important for the functioning of this state. I hope they take the Dayton Peace Accords into their hands and understand what competences and the Council of Ministers Act are. It is also very important to say here that apart from the application provided by Mrs. Borovac, who is truly extremely contentive, and by acquiring the circumstances we know her work, accurate and full of data showing her competences, the rest are dry guidance – born, lived, finished, finished, there, point. That's what we have here when it comes to the Council of Ministers. But that's not a problem either, it would be necessary, given that the chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Denis Zvizdić, I hope that he does not get me wrong when I say Mr. Denis Zvizdić, here that I don't mind, that I don't put that professor, doctor, it's still a job and there's a lot of others here, and that you don't get mad about it, he put out his exposé which is really meaningful, but it's a list of wishes to work in the next period, that the Council of Ministers will, within a very short time, on the basis of the exposé submitted by Mr. Denis Zvizdić, make the dynamics of work, the work programme, which we, as representatives, will have in our hands and we can appreciate, be able to watch, as we now look at our responsibilities, and in accordance with the Rules of work and all that we give general legal acts. Which means that within a month, hopefully, we will get from the Council of Ministers a work programme, because it is necessary, so that the next phase will have to be marked by more intensive work towards European integration, integration processes and what we will have to do in a large number of legislative regulations, which we have to intervene to comply with EU standards. That's something we're gonna have to do. That is why I expect the ministers and deputy ministers to join this work and give us an adequate programme of work. I read Article 5. The law on the higher education of Republika Srpska to which Miss Pandurević referred me, and it is true, You are right, You are right, but I do not understand, here I have to speak, it is a dilemma, it is now contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, it must refer to all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is, it turns out that only in Republika Srpska does not have to noscipate a diploma, but you end up and automatically admit, while in the Federation people give blood while they nostified their diploma, believe me. And so we now have duality in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is entirely contrary to the first member of our Constitution that is the law above all laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How is that possible? How is it possible that those in charge didn't find that out and then through the law, the Higher Education Framework Law gave the Imputation to level that out at the state level. That's something... I have examples of people who ended up in Serbia and have not no diplomas so far. That's what I'm talking about. They haven't been unsettled in the Federation. No, until today. That is the problem, so equality of the citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I hope that makes it right. I wanted to say this apropro that legislation should be harmonised. I wish them, since they will be chosen in part, I want the prime minister, his deputies, ministers and deputy ministers of many successes, and I hope that I have contributed to my today's issues that I have asked, not that I have tried anything else, a contribution to their future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21119	Thank you, Mr. Backović. 5 The replica was answered by Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21120	It's not this, the chairman, the replica, but I had no other way to get back on the list of speakers I was on. So this is a discussion, and I hope I don't have the need for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21121	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21122	Whatever you say, I agree in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21123	As it says, we can't do what we want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21124	All right. Dear Chairman, vice-presidential, respected leadership of the House of Peoples, the respected chairman of the BiH Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, candidates for ministers and deputies, I warmly welcome you and I show my satisfaction that we have finally come to the opportunity to establish a Council of Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since you write this discussion to me as a replica, I will try to say in three minutes what is the essence of my presentation, which is that a decision that is offered today is in front of the MPs, according to the SDP Club, and also a significant part of the public, is illegal. Article 6 The Council of Ministers' Law says the Council of Ministers will ensure equal representation of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let us put aside a little by little that this position of Article 6 is not respected and move on to the second position that it says - in the Council of Ministers or on the duty of the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, at least one place must be provided for members of the others. This is also not respected in the proposed decision. I have so much parliamentary experience that I know that this discussion of mine will in no way affect the conscience of those who have proposed it and that it will be adopted by the will of the majority. But let me say that this act will be a violation of human rights and laws by democracy, and democracy is that most decide, even in today's case, to break the law. When any citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina passes his car or if he does so on foot through red light, no one asks him if he will respect the law but gets an adequate sentence. Today for the parliamentary majority, the law does not apply. I am not surprised that MPs, among other things and the parliamentary majority, invited citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the previous session not to comply with the law. You'll remember the debate about the tv cab. Today they demonstrate that it is possible to do so. I think this is not so beautiful, not to say ugly, a message to a vast number of citizens who plead as others, and it is a particularly bad message in the hope that the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v. Bosnia and Herzegovina will be resolved in an adequate manner. If this is the way I'm really sad about it. In the end, I think it went very badly, not only with great wait, but also with this decision proposed, I don't think this is in the interest of the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all its citizens. It went wrong and how it ends we'll see it. It is my wish, frankly 6 to tell you, that this is a successful government, or Council of Ministers, because of the state, but I honestly have a great doubt about it. And finally, I suppose that is clear to all the members of the government, and also to the chairman that, unlike governments formed in some different and political climate and different deadlines, this government will not have 100 days to give it the opposition, as we have agreed, or promised the chairman Zvizdić, this is his first-session exposure, and on April 08th, we will have the opportunity to ask him some questions and ask him concrete activity compared to what he promised when we chose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21125	Okay, thank you. This was still a discussion, I didn't want to interrupt after the second minute, so you know you had a discussion. Mr. Mirsad Mešić picked up the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21126	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome all the ones Saša has already mentioned. Continuing the thought of where he stood I am obliged to introduce you that the SDP Club of BiH will not support the election of the Council of Ministers, primarily by affirming our position, namely our firm opposition position in the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. I would also like to express the concerns of the Club, as well as the SDP of BiH, with the way this Council has been chosen by a non-compliance with the fact prescribed by the Council of Ministers Act where the national composition must correspond to the number that is there and prescribed. Of course, fully aware of the fact that today's Council of Ministers will be elected to you, Mr Zvizdić, the future chairman of the Council of Ministers, your Ministers, the Deputy Ministers, unfortunately we cannot tell the Deputys, that you still take the chance that is at this point... Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all in the context of Euro-Atlantic integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21127	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you. I also warmly welcome the BiH presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, media representatives, I also take the opportunity to warmly welcome you all. Of course, by taking or subduing today, which represents a point on and, by way of delaying the session and by means of a convocation that is contrary to Article 156(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, But here, let's say, we got this material from a half-hour delay, and in fact the session was to be called on the basis of this material, but we got it late, but it still keeps this six-month period behind us, which actually characterizes everything that, let's say one detail about today's session, also indicates that we have not been established to support one of these Council of Ministers because parliamentary parties, which make up most of them and who have made their proposals for the establishment of the Council of Ministers, in the past six months from the end of the week and by the end of the next week, have come up to six months, and in fact, that period have been used to fight as hard and energetic as possible for their positions as possible to control certain resources as possible, which, we are certain, being also the characteristics of the behaviour and response of the authorities in the coming period. Of course, taking all this into account as well as those criticisms that we have made at the expense of Mr. Zvizdic's Presidential Council, the SBB Club will not support this proposal for the Council of Ministers, but, of course, expecting his election to come, in the coming period, will be a very, very strict critic for everything that is there, and we are confident that there will be plenty of opportunities to criticise the work of the Council of Ministers. So much for all this. I hope I haven't been too long, but my colleagues will take part in the debate, but I repeat once again that the SBB Club will not support the proposal for the Council of Ministers' composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21129	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21130	The respected chairman, the respected chairman of the BiH presidency, the respected chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I'll start my own exposure to the words that every executive power must have a chance. And in that sense, I have no doubt that today there is a necessary parliamentary majority that will also give this Council of Ministers a chance to show how much it can improve relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with its constitutional powers. When selecting any government in any country in Europe and the world, several questions are usually asked and questions answered. This is primarily a question of the expertise and competence of the candidates offered. The question of whether we can generally conclude that this Council of Ministers has a clear programme, a question of deadlines for forming government, as well as a question of balance in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sometimes we forget that regional balance. When it comes to the expertise and competence of the candidates offered, the situation is a charred situation, from those which could be said to have references for certain resolutions, to those for which it could not be determined. Secondly, when it comes to the programme it is clear, and I said so in the election of the Council of Ministers, that this Council of Ministers, at least it is not presented to us, does not have a clear programme of what to do in the first 100 days, what to do in the first year, especially in a way that is unmistakable in a way that we know exactly who the business operators are, what deadlines are and what the expected effects are. Are we late for the election? The answer is yes. Is that better than it was in the last term? The answer is that, however, I do not believe that this is something we should look forward to in the future. When I talk about this regional balance, I don't see nine ministers offered, I'm not talking about deputy ministers, that any minister is from northeastern Bosnia that has almost a million inhabitants, I don't believe that Tuzla as a university center, that some other centres couldn't offer good candidates. Why don't we talk about it? My colleagues at the SDP Club talked about the category of others, as hundreds of thousands of people in this country are not justified. I think that following the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the message that will be sent today from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building is not good. I don't think it's just an opposition remark, that I believe that people who make up the new parliamentary 8 majority are also aware. This is 2015. We know that in the House of People we still don't have a club of others. In the House of Representatives, we also do not seem to have anyone in the order of others, and here today we are choosing a Council of Ministers that is even worse than the previous Council of Ministers. That's not a good message. I don't think that was supposed to happen at all. Our goal, however, and positions and opposition, must be Bosnia and Herzegovina's success. I therefore believe that all well-intentioned people will support any effort made by this Council of Ministers to promote relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I want to say it openly, every success of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including these authorities, we will feel our success. This is also an opportunity to repeat once again that there should be no mistake in the next four years, especially on capital issues for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When I say so, I mean first of all, resolving the issue of state property, because the issue can no longer be resolved on the ground, as signed by six party leaders in due time, but now solely on the basis of the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling. Then the issue of the coordination mechanism, the issue of the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. It is obvious that it will not harm the next period of responsibility or position or opposition. In this regard, people who are currently making up the current parliamentary majority should be partially understood, and perhaps we from the opposition should ask ourselves a question – what could change or do that significantly, that we are in the replaced roles by any chance. We must, therefore, be aware of some objective circumstances, but certainly ask for much more in the coming period. Where is the solution to raise that degree of responsibility? I think the disastrous thing, first of the international community, and then of all of us in this country, which we have accepted, so I will not just say for years, perhaps for decades, one unhealthy logic, when there is no concrete solution on our European path, on our Euro-Atlantic path, the answer usually becomes – which you did not agree to. We'll have to try to determine exactly where the problem is. If we know what European criteria are, if we know what our strategic goals are as a state, and if we have a stalemate on that road I don't think it's a solution to say you're all guilty, we need to determine exactly who and how he voted on certain issues and why Bosnia and Herzegovina is standing in place, as it stands. I think it's very important and that it should be taken into account. And finally, we're going to need more definitely reformer approach, more courage, more courage, less party chains, more democracy and less partocracies. We will also have to turn the legislative authority of this country and the Council of Ministers into the right places where essential decisions are made for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and certainly not, as was the practice, not only in the past term, but also in the longer term, that we are making flow boilers from Parliament, when it comes to certain key decisions, so we had the opportunity at one of the previous sessions, when we adopted this statement, to discuss such an important document and to have one or two, three MPs report in general for the discussion. As for us from the SDP, so anything that strengthens Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will support it. And we will particularly insist on issues such as the NATO Alliance, the EU, the unfettered fight against all forms of crime, especially political corruption, the affirmation of anti-nationalism and anti-fascism and other important issues for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I will end it once again with the words - this Council of Ministers will get a chance today, at least from MPs of the parliamentary majority, and how they will take advantage of it we will all see together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21131	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I must say that although, as Mr Magazinović and my predecessors have said, I am aware of the outcome of this session today, I must note, however, that the parliamentary majority, in particular I think of the parties in the Federation, in the last half of the year since the election mainly dealt with the resolution of mathematical tasks, in such a way as to negotiate only the number of positions, the schedule of ministries, resources, that it has not really dealt with any programmes, criteria, competences and qualifications of certain ministers that have been proposed to us, resulting in the fact that we do not have a Council of Ministers for half a year now. On the other hand, if we look at what this beautiful position is like for us and for the common land, we can see that it's never been in a worse situation. Based on numerous indicators, including economic climate, investment, social programme, if you want an exodus of young people, including family destruction, including poverty. In fact, this parliamentary majority has been busy all this time with its own interests and has acted, according to HDZ in 1990, irresponsiblely and customerally electing in certain cases incompetent ministers. I think that is particularly true of the judiciary which is a cancer of the early and painful aspect of this country, and the fight against corruption, crime and nepotism I think is a major challenge for Bosnia and Herzegovina on this European path. So what I'm saying is that HDZ 1990 has declared itself a constructive opposition, will support all constructive proposals, but I'm not sure this kind of authority, we'll be restrained, as I was on the commission. Another reason to contribute to this is the fact that, which I must comment on, although colleagues have previously said, that as a member, or second deputy of the Commission for Gender Equality, there is no condition for 40% of women in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21133	Thank you. The word has Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say hello to you all and wish you a successful day. In fact, we've already heard my predecessors say there are two issues here, namely two laws, the Council of Ministers Act, Articles 5 and 7 and the Law on Gender Equality, Article 20. So, as President of the Commission for Gender Equality, I show my dissatisfaction for the reason that the existing law is not respected, regardless of what we have warned Mr Zvizdić and all parliamentarians, or all the parties that are in the Parliamentary Assembly. So we come up with a position in Article 20 that everything below 40% of women is discrimination. In this case, we see that this is really about discrimination. There's something else I'd like to mention here. I don't know if the situation regarding the exposé, as it echoed, Mr. Zvizdić, but on the day of the exposé and the next day in the Republika Srpska Assembly, we had the position that the chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, was talking about ministries, new ministries..., new agencies, etc., and then we have tomorrow in Republika Srpska, the 10 RS Assembly to challenge it. So that coalition doesn't even have a joint programme. From the above, therefore, because of these two laws and exposés, we believe that this Council of Ministers is not competent and that we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21135	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21136	Thank you. I welcome all present. I am very sorry that the chairman of the Commission for Gender Equality is today, when the decision on the appointment of the Council of Ministers is called and calls for a member of the Gender Equality Act, and in the last session when we had the appointment for the Joint Commission, where no women were in the seat of the chairman, no one called except two members of the Commission for Gender Equality, even more so the other members of the Commission voted in favour. So here we need to develop this myth that we're in those situations where we politically respond to support and appeal to some laws, and when it doesn't fit we'll even be restrained or we'll support something that's coming under our laws. So that Parliament, which calls for expertise and competence, I would really like to have someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina finally resolve the myth of what professionalism and competence is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when almost every corner, in every village we have private colleges where diplomas are bought, so that about expertise and competences both in this assembly and in this Parliament, let us give people a chance to see what they will do and to finally start changing laws that will be for the benefit of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21137	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21138	I thank the chairman. If I could just look back, I was talking about commissions, I was talking about the fact that women are insufficient representation, so there was probably no need for Mr. Isaković to talk about it. Not taking a good example of the situation we had last time, with the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, where the deadline has been broken in more than a year, this is the biggest delay in the history of post-dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least. Before this deadline was February 9, and here it is now March 31st. Although we've heard a lot of announcements next week, next week, except it's not, it reminds me about the situation, is it, that we had this morning. The Council of Ministers' appointment session was postponed, literally every half hour they came to inform us on behalf of the chairman, Asim Sarajlić, who throws it here, I would ask the chairman to warn him, have come to inform us that it is being postponed every half hour. But 11 here, as Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil said, you'll get a chance to form this Council of Ministers today. And we, as citizens first of all, are very glad that you finally did it after all this math that didn't exactly, did it come out of your hands. If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, I'll look back, you told Mr. Magazinović you'd be leading his discussion as a replica, you said, and I quote, we'll be leading as it says, we can't be different. Is that what it says, now I quote again, an instructional provision or a binding one? Again, I quote you, Mr. Chairman, because you have said on several occasions in the media that the provision, the legal provision, that the confirmation of the Council of Ministers' composition is carried out within 35 days only instructive and not binding? On the other hand, it is very unclear what this even means, but a very bad message is being sent to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a message that there are more and less important legal provisions. But you don't respect any that are explicit, where there is no question of whether they are instructive or binding, as you said. In this composition, i.e. the proposed composition of the Council of Ministers, there is no one in the order of others, although the Council of Ministers Law says very clearly that there must be at least one person in the order of the others or in the position of the Secretary-General, which we know is not the case. We heard in the media again, given that it wasn't proposed today, that one of the deputy ministers would be among the others. The law is very clear, it will not satisfy that legal provision, you will vote it by saying it will, so there is no point then to refer to the law. Then I'd better take a look at the practice. And practice is next. Dear Mr Bevanda, when he was a candidate for the Council of Ministers' Chairman, offered one minister from among others. Prior to that, Mr Špirić, when he was a candidate for the Council of Ministers, offered one minister, not a deputy, from the others. Mr. Zvizdić did not offer us a minister in the order of others. But if we weren't fooling ourselves then, in the case of Mr Bevanda or Mr Špirić, they weren't SDA ministers, they were SDP and Party for BiH ministers. DF like that other coalition partner SDA has not continued this practice in all these years. And now I'm going back to the Law on Gender Equality. I don't think that provision is instructive either, but it's very clearly binding, which is that you have to have 40% of the gender of less represented women, in this case it would be women. I'm looking at the proposed convulsion shows we're nowhere near that number. So now I'm interested in whether this is also an instructional or binding provision? A few weeks ago, all the MPs in this House received a letter from a high representative who reminds me of that provision, so it seems binding. But this is really important. I think it is a very bad message for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that there are more and less important legal provisions. I think it's important that if the law says something, to act in accordance with the law, and even if it's just a formality. It would be a formality for the Bureau to appoint Mr. Zvizdić again to comply with the legal provision, but it is very bad to send a message that is approximately – it is not so important. And if I didn't say that when we get into this about the others, and that violates the practice so far, then we get into this about gender equality, and that's also significantly different from the practice so far, so on. In any case, as a citizen, I really want a lot of happiness and success in the work of this Council of Ministers' Assembly, but based on what has been shown in the last six months really, at least at this point we have nothing to suggest that it will be a programme coalition, but purely mathematical. The very messages that were sent in the days before this session that she had the same day and the same hour, some said it was uniquely different groups. I think it's the most unique thing for children when they change images from hand to hand. And now the same day, the same hour, the message is very bad. That's exactly what I'm saying, here's Mr. Tadić. He knows exactly what I'm talking about. We're the same 12 generations. So the message has been sent very badly anyway, and I, as a citizen, hope that the programme, if it exists at all, will be slightly different from this practice so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21139	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21140	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, chair of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Vice-Presidents. My replica will be very short, and it refers to, as counterpart Arnaut says, the practice so far that we must have the rest in the Council of Ministers. We'll have it now. I just wouldn't say it's a practice so far. I will remind you of the case of your former party colleague from your former party party of the Party for BiH, Mr Sven Alkalaj, who asked for his voice to be counted as Bosniak at the Council of Ministers' meetings, and then it turns out that he has Croatian citizenship and that he has also declared himself Hrvat. Well, maybe that's the mix of Bošnjak and Hrvat at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21141	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21142	The Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, chairing the House, colleagues, future members of the Council of Ministers. I took all this material here and I was really trying to find the national membership of the candidates. And I have to be honest with you that I haven't found anywhere in these materials that we have today, a nationality. So I'd ask my colleagues to tell me where they found their national belongings in these materials. Because either I don't have all the materials or they don't read the materials, they listen to the media before this session. So, here, please colleagues, who talked about just telling me in the materials where they found the nationality. Furthermore, it is not true, what counterpart Arnaut said, that during the chairmanship of Nikola Špirić, he was proposed from the ranks of others. At the time, it was not a legal obligation to propose to the Council of Ministers someone in the order of others and, then, no one was proposed. So, later, the High Representative's decision came to this obligation, which I respect, of course, and I think is fine. So it's not exactly a fact, so it's not a fact, so then I want to say it. And finally, I would like to know which Council of Ministers was based on the agreed programming, or agreed programming... principles. We've had here as before, we have a statement by the parties that make up the majority, and through that statement, they listed what they're entering this new government with. And that's even more than it was before. Well, of course, the operational issues were raised by the chairman, and I really don't think there's any problem. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21143	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21144	Thank you. I don't know, Mr. Novaković, if you noticed I was talking about practice specifically. I was just saying, it's obvious that you're dividing the law into instructional, or legal provisions into instructive and binding, so I said let's talk about practice then, so I mentioned practice in the previous session, and so in the summary before that. In both meetings there was a minister from the others, and that's what I was talking about. Now you're saying where we found the nationality. Well, it's not our obligation to find a national identity. I suppose it is the obligation of those who propose the Council of Ministers' convocation to offer it in accordance with the law. But here, if you're saying that someone within the Council of Ministers, therefore, has the order of ministers, then you have fully fulfilled that legal provision and then I apologize, if that's true, but I don't think so. I don't think so. As for Mrs. Pandurević, I don't know how you know how Mr. Alkalaj asked to plead. Perhaps as a former member of the SNSD, you participated today in the Council of Ministers meetings or attended. Anyway, I was talking about practice. Paxes now, unfortunately, we don't have any others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21145	Thank you very much. This is the reply to the replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21146	I thank the chairman. You see, Mr. Arnaut, I've never changed my political parties. And I know about the Alkalaj case because I was working as a journalist at the time and very comprehensively reporting about it and even doing the interview with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, who complained to me – Mr Alkalaj asks us to count his voice as Bosniak and then a document appears and a request for Croatian citizenship on which he pleaded as a Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21147	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the First Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21148	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman of the Presidency, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Deputys, Honorable and Honorable Members of the College of the House of 14 Peoples, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected media, all of our associates, I warmly welcome you all. I am pleased that here today we are discussing an important decision, the formation of an executive government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically the Council of Ministers. We have in front of us a motion for a decision that, based on the Council of Ministers' Law, was delivered to us by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I've been listening carefully to the remarks, and, of course, I won't look back on them. No matter what some people think, whether someone recognized something or didn't recognize it, I also want to give my opinion of the proposal for this decision that we have ahead of us and say clearly my position. Because in this House, I hold more to attitudes and principles than to the current political situation, no matter what duty she has acted. It was somewhere in the executive, anywhere in, I don't know, the legislative authority, which is current, because for me everything else is transient, and remains the values that make up a man, so with all of his competences that are an integral part, is it? As far as the motion for a decision is concerned, it is, in my opinion, made in a manner of skill, which I would like to say, that it is not legally founded in the sense of the Council of Ministers' Law. Of course, our chairman did not even call on the provisions of articles in the context of the debate that we are talking about here today. Given that he called for the provisions of Article 5 which speak about the structure of the ministries and of Article 10 which speaks about the deadlines within which the chairman of the Council of Ministers delivers a decision on the confirmation of the Council of Ministers to this House of Representatives, I can say that the chairman has in some way been skillfully served by the legal basis that as much as his decision has, let's say, a legal basis. What am I saying? Decisions appointing the Council of Ministers are, above all, a political issue and political decisions which must and binding all those political representatives, who participate in making that decision, to make it legally justified, i.e. legal. What am I saying? The HDZ of BiH as one of the participants, as a responsible party that trusts the Croatian people, has participated and wants to participate in all political talks because it has responsibility. And in that sense, we have done everything we can to try to make this Decision as legal and legal as possible. So in the context of this, in a ministry where both the minister and the deputy from the same constitutional people were proposed, the HDZ BiH has made a step forward to change the candidate of the alternate, in order to honour the provision that the minister and deputy cannot be of the order of the constituent people. I do not want to speak on behalf of other political options, etc., I just want to say that everyone should take responsibility within their political attitude and according to, of course, to that responsibility, whether, as far as they have, to say, the rights. In that sense, I would like to say that we, HDZ, BiH HDZ representatives and the parties gathered around the HNS, will support this kind of political decision, support what all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina expect from us, to step up in terms of reform and all that awaits us, both within Bosnia and Herzegovina and on its European and Euro-Atlantic path. Indeed, I would desire both the chairman and all the ministers and the deputies in some way the trust they need not only them but also us. And I would really like today that we here have shown a higher level of trust, and more than anything that we've talked about here today bothers me because it feels like I'm saying no, and in such things we can hardly expect some steps in the future and steps that are good for Bosnia and Herzegovina and all of its peoples and citizens. I think we can also talk about political competence. Maybe some minister doesn't like it, maybe because he's just politically competent, but I think about the professional competence of anyone who calls someone in 15 one way or that way or says that he's, he's the best guy who talks about himself and his competence. So I want to finally wish once again for a lot of success to the chairman, to all ministers and deputies, and I hope that at one of the next sessions, we will also give confirmation of this step and a proposal from the HDZ to the BiH Ministry of Transport, in terms of the replacement position, Mr Saša Dalipagić, so that in some way we all go together with full confidence, with full respect, here on the road of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its well-being in terms of economic and social reforms for its peoples and citizens. Here, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21149	Thank you. The word is Mr. Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanić, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The Council of Ministers does not need representatives, the Council of Ministers needs the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers needs the needs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this period of 5 months is a debt for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I want to personally thank all those people who worked days to come to this day and today to choose the Council of Ministers, Deputy. And Mr. Zvizdić, in front of this tall House, very correctly, very detailedly presented his exposés, and all those who followed him all the topics he worked out in detail and I think we should trust this Council of Ministers that we're going to choose today. Political, political tolerance, and we had this topic now that we were in the European Parliament, political, culture of dialogue, I prefer to say political tolerance should today allow us to respect the majority, esteeming and role of Members who are currently a minority in this House. I don't think it's appropriate for us to talk about the Council of Ministers,...we didn't give people a chance one day to sit where they should sit and show their people and their political parties who chose them what they could do. We here as MPs will be one of the coordinators and conduct control of the work of the Council of Ministers headed by Mr. Zvizdić. Therefore, I believe that this day is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that today should be a solemn day for Bosnia and Herzegovina to win the government. What a state it would be and what a state it is if there was no government. The word itself rules, it should rule, to solve the problems of these citizens. Therefore, thanks again to all the political parties that have worked to elect this government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21151	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers if he has any needs, things are clear, I mean. I'm concluding a debate between the ladies and gentlemen, please, please, I've concluded the debate nicely. 16 We move to, in accordance with Article 156(5). The Rules of Procedure, therefore, votes on confirming the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Confirming the appointment of ministers to the BiH Council of Ministers: Igor Crnadak for Foreign Minister Mirko Šarović as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Vjekoslav Bevanda as Minister of Finance and Treasury, Slavko Matanović as Minister of Communications and Transport, Adil Osmanović as Minister of Civil Affairs, Semih Borovac za ministar za ljudski pravo i izbjeglica, Josip Grubeša for Minister of Justice, Dragan Mektić as Minister of Security, Marina Pendeš as Minister of Defence. Then, confirming the appointment of Deputy Ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers: Josip Brkić as Deputy Foreign Minister Mate Franjičević as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Mirsad Žuga as Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, Đorđe Miličević as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, Predrag Jović za zamjenik ministar za ljudski pravo i izbjeglica, Nezir Pirić as Deputy Minister of Justice, Mijo Krešić as Deputy Minister of Security, Emir Suljagić as Deputy Defence Minister and Boris Jerinić as Deputy Minister of Defence. And confirming the appointment of Vjekoslav Bevanda and Mirko Šarović as BiH's deputy chairman council of ministers. I call upon you to prepare for the vote, please, I invite you, please, I invite you to prepare yourself for the vote, we vote on confirming this decision as I read it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with 26 votes in favour of, 7 votes against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, confirmed the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I urge the ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, deputies, ministers, vice-presidents, ministers and deputy ministers to come out here to make a solemn statement. Please stand up. Can we? Please repeat the text of a solemn statement that I will read.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21153	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21154	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21155	That I would knowingly carry out my duties, 17
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21156	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21157	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21158	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21159	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21160	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-31-0.u21161	Dear Chairman of the Council of Ministers, vice-president, respected ministers, deputy ministers, on behalf of the House of Representatives, and on behalf of me, I congratulate you on the very same solemn statement and duty taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the work of the 3rd Emergency Session of the House of Representatives. I invite you to approach congratulations. /
