ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the second emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. For the second emergency session, I suggest the next agenda. The selection of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - the Constitutional Commission, - the Committee for Finance and Budget, - the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is there a need for discussion, is someone complaining about the word, or is there a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? I don't see any interested people. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda and no votes shall be adopted, in accordance with Article 62. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The selection of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - the Constitutional Commission, - the Committee for Finance and Budget, - the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections. Before I open a debate on this agenda item, I would like to make a few preliminary notes. The College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly was held at the 1st session, held on 1602.2015. For 2 years, when considering the agreement on the establishment of permanent committees at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH decided to ask the people's clubs in the House of Nations to submit proposals for the appointment of deputies to the permanent committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the Constitutional Commission, the Committee for Finance and Budget and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. Representatives' clubs of the Croatian and Serbian people submitted their proposals on 23.02.2015 to the Bosniak people on 25.02.2015 for the appointment of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples. In line with the proposals submitted, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was drawn up. You have received a proposal for a decision to appoint permanent committees to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Let me read you the above-mentioned motion for a decision. Constitutional Commission of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - Bariša Čolak, - Ljilja Zovko, - Sredoje Nović, - Dragutin Rodić, - Halid Genjac, - Safet Softić. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - Mario Karamatić, - Martin Raguž, - Nebojša Radmanović, - Ognjen Tadić, - Sead Kadić, - Fahrudin Radončić. The Committee for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - Ljilja Zovko, - Zdenka Džambas, - Darko Babalj, - Dragutin Rodić, - Safet Softić - Sifet Hodžić. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone picking up? If there are no reports for the debate, I propose that we vote on a motion for a decision to appoint members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Vote now. Thank you. Of the 15 present – for it was 14, it was not against, it was abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-0.u132	No microphone 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-0.u133	Wrong, we can do it again. Vote now. Therefore, from the 15 present – there were 15 against and there were no abstentions. From Federation 10 for, versus and abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 5 for, versus and abstentioned no one. I agree that we have reached a decision on the appointment of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We realised the agenda of today's session. I note that the constituent meetings of the Permanent Commissions of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be held today: the Constitutional Commission at 11:30, the Commission for Finance and Budget at 11:45 and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications here in the Blue Hall at 12:00. I therefore call on the elected envoys to be required to attend the constitutive meetings of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples. And another piece of information, we at the College that we just held, agreed to hold the next session of this House on Thursday, so on 05.03. in our regular time, as usual, at 11:00. Of course you'll get a call and a agenda, but here's more information. Thank you very much. This agenda has exhausted and today's session is over. Session completed at 11:20 p.m.
