ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4912	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 5th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. Representatives of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH and the Office for the Review of BiH Institutions, whose report on the work on the agenda of today's session, were also invited. I warmly welcome all present MPs/representers and guests. The absence from today's session is the only one, no one announced, only the delay was announced by MP Mirsad Mešić. According to the information service, a total of 31 representatives are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to mention the following. The previous agenda was removed from point 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Compensations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, from 08.01.2015 (first reading), at the request of the Commission responsible for Finance and Budget, which requested an extension of the deadline for delivering opinions on the Bill's Proposal. The Commission adopted the following conclusion: The Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives postpones its statement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and asks the Council of Ministers to deliver an opinion to the Commission within 10 days on the draft law. The House of Representatives' College considered this issue and the only business opportunity left to the College was to grant the Commission an extension of the deadline, and we extended the deadline by 10 days. At the same time, we discussed this situation once again and, therefore, we concluded that this is the Commission's business law, that the laws of the Council of Ministers are being delivered to the College for a plea, and the Law has already been delivered to the Council of Ministers for a plea by the College, and delivers to the House if there is any need for requests to the Council of Ministers. And I would ask that we apply ourselves to this kind of thing in the future and that we have as few requirements as possible to extend the deadlines, that the Commission fulfils their obligations towards this House because all 2 who receive the agenda recognise their obligations from the agenda, and that is, above all, the Commission which are the workshops of this House, without them, therefore, there is no House sitting, that this is reported neatly, because this is all in line with our plan, the programme and the calendar of our activities. The following points are also removed from the agenda, but this time at the request of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. Point 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France concerning the mobility of young people, No 01,02-05-2- 1065/14, of 26.09.2014. Point 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union's Horizon 2020 programme – Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020), issue: 01,02-05-2-1113/14, of 13.10.2014. Point 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-1122/14, of 16.10.2014. Point 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-1167/14, of 30.10.2014. Point 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Union programme for culture and creative sectors "Creative Europe", number: 01,02-05-2-1248/14, since 27.11.2014. Point 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement (Other solid waste management project: Neum, Bosnian Krupa, Srebrenica and Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as administrator of the European Commission for Trust of the European Union Pre-accession Instrument Fund, issue: 01.02-05-2-41/15, 05.01.2015. Point 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on consular protection and visa issues, issue 01.02-05-2-1308/14, since 09.12.2014. Point 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-05-2-1061/14, of 26/09/2014. Point 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption through an anti-corruption initiative in Southeast Europe, issue 01.02-05-2-1310/14, since 09.12.2014. Point 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the field of education, No 01,02-05-2-147/14, since 19.12.2014. 3 Point 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine to prohibit the cloning of human beings, No: 01,02-05-2-1223/14, since 19.11.2014. Point 30. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Chile on Defence Cooperation, issue 01,02-05-2- 1064/14, since 26/09/2014. Point 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Institute for Prevention and preparedness in the case of disasters for South East Europe (2013), number: 01,02-05-2-1115/14, of 14.10.2014. According to the information received by the College, and this issue has been discussed at the College session, the Foreign Affairs Commission has planned to hold two meetings to honour the planned agenda of today's session. At one session of the Commission, there was no quorum and the Commission could not work that day, and then held the next session and completed only that part of the work planned for that session. So, due to the lack of quorum in the Commission's work, we practically have today taken these points off the agenda. The Commission, therefore, planned to do its part of the job, so I repeat, planned to have two sessions. It is necessary to hold as many sessions as it takes to prepare the House session. On this occasion, I would like to warn all MPs, MPs in the House of Representatives, that they are regularly responding to the sessions of all the working bodies of this House. We won't tolerate this kind of practice in the future. They will be publicly called, at least we can do that, which for justifiable reasons will not come to committee meetings and Dom will be brought into this situation. And I will ask our commissions to submit such reports, or the College will ask for it. So much for this time when this is an explanation. Let's move on, the agenda is complemented by the following points compared to the one you've got. That's point 3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-31/14, of 22.07.2014. (Law in second reading) Point 4. The Commission's report on the attempt to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Saša Magazinović Opinion on the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-2-1440/14, of 24.12.2014, which reads: "Departing from the principle that we will not, and not giving ours, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and international law, have the primary objective of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our country, the PSBiH House of Representatives notes: 1. Badinter's report is an unquestioned part of international law with the power of international judgment, and as one of the foundations of the Dayton Peace Agreement has the right to championship other acts of this kind, guaranteeing the non-questionability of BiH's territorial integrity and integrity within its internationally recognised borders. 2. A new BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with making three comprehensive, primary legal, expert analyses, with consequences for BiH's interests, from the point of view of preserving its internationally recognised borders with 4 Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. On these grounds, the House of Representatives will organise a public debate with a view to signing an agreement on state-owned borders with neighbours."The House College as a committee has not reached agreement on those points and we will declare them in the second round of voting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4913	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers and of course other domestic and international institutions and organisations. Given the fact that the College of Representatives of the House of Representatives and also the General College did not accept the SNSD's initiative to find a new item of the agenda at today's session, as 2nd in the proposed one, and it would be a decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives, we are using the business opportunity and calling on you to support our initiative and to find the proposed agenda point today at the 5th session of the House of Representatives. We, of course, also at the last meeting of the House of Representatives presented a series of arguments and facts that suggest that there is obviously a kind of political responsibility for Mr Džaferović and that this issue should be declared by Parliament on the one hand, and of course not entering criminal responsibility on what the institutions of the other character should work on. With this in mind, I am obliged to read the argument in the Rules of Procedure and, of course, to ask you once again to support our initiative to find this decision as a part of the agenda at the House of Representatives' session today. On the basis of Article 71(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the SNSD MPs' Club, proposes a new item of the agenda, which reads – a decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the post of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, a member of the College of the House of Representatives. The new point is proposed due to the existence of serious accusations made through extensive documentation submitted by BiH Vice-President Mirsad Kebo in the previous days to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which in previous days has also been spoken about in the media, resulting in serious doubts that Mr Džaferović did not prevent, report or punish war crimes against Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past war. Article 27(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given everything the public has been informed about in recent days and concerns the current chairmanship of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer represent the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or he cannot be the chairman of the House of Representatives or member of the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. 5 Džaferović inappropriately commented and tried to deny the 9th day of Republika Srpska on 9 January, and currently holds the presidency of the House in which MPs from Republika Srpska were elected, which is an insult and an attack on international relations and constitutional division of competencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given the fact that we couldn't provide a pass through the College and the Expansive College, I urge all of us to try to separate, at least at this point, political responsibility from criminal responsibility, wanting
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4914	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4915	that the institutions competent to deal with judicial matters are doing their job and that we decide on this issue today and allow Parliament, or the House of Representatives today to resolve Mr Džaferović from the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives. And once again I want to ask this point to be like 2nd on the proposed agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4916	Thank you very much. Are there any new draft agendas for changing the agenda? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal to include this item on the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 votes for, 29 votes against, 2 abstentions. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives did not accept Mr Staša Košarac's proposal, the president of the SNSD Club. Mr. Košarac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4917	It is our business duty to inform the chairman of whether any of the MPs, the SNSD MPs' club, will attend the session, is an obligation. We are also using a business opportunity and it is our obligation to inform you that we will not participate in the work of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4918	So that's your right, as far as I'm concerned, you can behave as you please, of course in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue with the session, and this House will obviously have to look for ways to respond to the attempt to abuse this House for political purposes, political haranga, discredition, furious harana and discredit members of this House and the leadership of this House. 6 I advance the agenda of today’s session, which reads: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-31/14, of 22.07.2014. (law in second reading); 4. The Commission's report on the attempt to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Saša Magazinović Opinion on the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-2-1440/14, of 24.12.2014, which reads: "Departing from the principle that we will not, and not giving ours, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and international law, have the primary objective of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our country, the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH notes: 1. Badinter's report is an unquestioned part of international law with the power of international judgment, and as one of the foundations of the Dayton Peace Agreement has the right to championship other acts of this kind, guaranteeing the non-questionability of BiH's territorial integrity and integrity within its internationally recognised borders. 2. A new BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with making three comprehensive, primary legal, expert analyses, together with the State Commission for Borders, with consequences for BiH's interests, from the point of view of preserving its internationally recognised borders with Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. On these grounds, the House of Representatives will organise a public debate aimed at signing an agreement on state-owned borders with neighbours." 5. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2013, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-796/14, since 11.07.2014; 6. Report on the financial audit of the 2013 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-1054/14, since 24/09/2014; 7. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013, issue: 01.01/1.02,02/1-08-1053/14, of 24/09/2014; 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Centre for the Development of Finance (CEF), number: 01,02-05-2-1165/14, of 30.10.2014; 9. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 01,02-05-2-1006/14, of 11/09/2014; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Loan and Project between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance and the JP Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia d.d. Mostar ( Mr. Denis Bećirović, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4920	...the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We have witnessed again today that part of the House of Representatives is leaving at the very beginning of the session. I think it's one serious question, and in my interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, and the counter-business move of the SNSD Club. In view of the very clear provisions contained in Article 7, as it is not only the right of the MPs of the House of Representatives to attend the session, it is also the duty of each MP. Given that, I'm asking a 15-minute break to get an interpretation or a rope college or an extended college about this, in my court, a very important issue. Therefore, it is a business interpretation that clearly as a House of Representatives at the beginning of this mandate resolves the issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4921	Mr. Bećirović, if we can take this as your initiative, which the College will consider at one of the next sessions of the Colleges, that we are not making... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4924	So it is not disputed that the Club has the right to ask and that you are obliged to give a break within a certain time, but I am not the goal of stopping the work of the House of Representatives in any way today. I have understood you in a way that at the next session of the College you will consider this question and give an interpretation of this part of the Business. That at this point is enough for me and in that sense...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4925	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Let's go to the first item of the agenda, 9 Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives I'm opening a debate. You've got the records. Who wants to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4928	Mr. Chairman, deputies, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome all of you. Because for the first time in my life, I am speaking to this distinguished House, and I am taking advantage of the opportunity to wish all of us successful work. I hope that there will be as little obstruction in this mandate as possible and more results that will improve the lives of all our citizens. I'm going to make a very brief comment, because I asked a parliamentary question about building a 110 kilovolt trafo station in Buzhi. The reason I asked that question is that this investment is more than eight years late. I am pleased with the response that Elektroprenos delivered in the short term, but I am not satisfied with the dynamics of production, as Electropresnos also Elektroprenos in his reply that the main reason for the delay in this investment is the blockage of Elektropresnos by 2014. In this regard, I would like to stress that the citizens of the municipality of Buzim suffer the consequences of an unquality and very frequent power cut... With electricity, which has a indirect impact on the development of the local community. I am sure that many other local communities in BiH are expecting investment from this public company, and therefore I call on the new government, which is in the process of forming, to manage this public company far more responsibly, so that the investments we expect can be realised. I also hope that the dynamic plan contained in the answer will be fulfilled so that I don't have to bother this House again and ask the same question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4929	Thank you, Mr. Emrić. We're going to the point of the three agenda, and that's Ad. 3. Commission Report on Efforts to Reach Consent on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Refunds in BiH Court and Prosecutoral Institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading) The College of the House as the Commission has not reached agreement on this Proposal for a Law in a second reading. I would like to remind you that the integral part of the Amendment Bill is contained in the Commission's Finance and Budget Report, which reads as follows: in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: "3. Judges and prosecutors have the right to compensation for their vacation in accordance with the sublaw adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Official Messenger), No 50/08, 35/09/09, 75/09/32/12, 42/12, 50/12, 32/13 and 87/13). The conclusion from the Commission's Report will also be made later. There's no discussion here. We're going to the point of four agendas, Ad. 4. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Saša Magazinović's conclusion on the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina - Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović, who reads: "We will not, and do not give ours, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and international law, as the primary objective of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our country, the Representative House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly notes: 1. Badinter's report is an unquestioned part of international law with the power of international judgment, and as one of the foundations of the Dayton Peace Agreement has the right to championship other acts of this kind, guaranteeing the non-questionability of BiH's territorial integrity and integrity within its internationally recognised borders. 11 2. A new BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with making three comprehensive, primary legal, expert analyses, together with the State Commission for Borders, with consequences for BiH's interests, from the point of view of preserving its internationally recognised borders with Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. On these grounds, the House of Representatives will organise a public debate with a view to signing a state-level border agreement with neighbours."
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4933	The chairman and College of the House of Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Since I'm reporting for the first time, I'd like to welcome you and wish for the successful work of this fifth session. What I want to say is that this report on the execution of the budget for 2013 has the basis of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, and this Law in Article 22, paragraph 5 clearly states – within 180 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is required to prepare and submit an annual report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, following a reference to the Council of Ministers. However, we are now in a position to discuss the execution of Budget for 2013. So, between these two fiscal years, there is a 2014 fiscal year. The Parliamentary Assembly is obliged to adopt the report on the implementation and annual audit before it is able to approve and adopt the new Budget, in accordance with Chapters 2 and 3 of this same Act. So here's the delay that's unacceptable. But we also had a situation that was very interesting. Because of the fact that we are in 2015, the 2013 Report, this Budget has adopted quite one other assembly of this Assembly. The Budget 2013 report was also followed by its realization, and now we have in 2015 the position to adopt something that we did not really participate in. So 12 is very unnatural if someone who did not propose participated in its execution, now this same report should be adopted. In view of the fact that they would send a bad message to economic operators who do not deliver their final accounts within the legal time limit, and they are awaited by dragon penalties, also because of the fact that because of this fact that we do not see that something can change if this Report is adopted or not adopted. The SBB club won't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4934	Who else wants to talk? I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda, which is, uh, Ad. Six. Financial Audit Report 2013 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, Material Office for the Review of BiH Institutions The report was submitted in the procedure on 24 September 2014. The financial and budgetary committee in charge of the Report submitted its opinion on 16 January 2015. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: - The Finance and Budget Committee of the Representatives' House proposes that the Office for the Review of BiH institutions plan to review the impact in the coming period on the topic "The eligibility of the existence of administrative and supervisory committees in BiH institutions and their efficiency. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4936	So it's the same story as the same actors. We are coming into this position that what happened in 2013, the recommendations that the audit committee was supposed to include in the budget for 2014, we are now in a position, therefore, that they were not included. It's the same thing, it was too late, and we're in the same position. Therefore, due to all these circumstances listed in the previous agenda and on this same point of the SBB will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4937	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4938	I thank the chairman. 13 Of course, I would like to commend this report on behalf of the SDS Department of Audit and this particular report is the reason why we will not support the Budget Implementation Report. We don't know who will be sitting on the Council of Ministers, but I think that to create a programme of work of the future Council of Ministers, this particular report of the Office of Audit should be a recommendation to the future Council of Ministers for some of the things he has to do. What do we see from this? It's terrible that after so many years of reviewing, only 22 institutions out of 73 have a positive audit opinion, which, we see, despite some regulations and measures in this audit report, it doesn't work. So we have a regulation on the use of official cars that was brought in April last year to insist on the auditor, and it's only been in force since this year. And in doing so, I think that regulation should have been even more modest because we still see that the directors of the agencies can dispose of the official cars that the prime ministers of some countries in the region have, and we can even say in the EU. Furthermore, there is no fight against corruption, it is also clear from this report. What's scary about this report is that there are a large number of those and that huge money is spent on additional incomes for those who are already getting paid for their job, so we have people sitting on the Council of Ministers who receive 38,400 marks per year as fees for working in various commissions. So I wonder when these people even get to do their job? Because apparently much more than working hours work exclusively in commissions, and as I understand it, the Ministry of Finance has consistently refused for years to make recommendations from auditors to build a base to know who is in which commission, how much compensation it receives. And here I see only some first steps, at least according to the audit opinion, are made in that direction. So, I would like first of all to appeal to all the political parties here that, hopefully, the future power that we're going to get, has in mind some of the principles of putting in place this very observation from the audit report, because it's obvious, at least from what I've seen, the glare on these commission fees, commission fees and boards of directors eat 6 million marks annually. From what I've seen, such a rough assessment, you can see right now exactly where 15 million marks can be saved. I would once again like to thank the Office for the revision of one quality report. Of course, with this report in all future activities, you should keep in mind, and I understand why your colleagues from the SNSD went away, a report that's not on the agenda today, and that's that report on the impact review of the budget reserve spending, where unfortunately we see that some colleagues sitting in front of me have been very much grabbed from the budget reserve for their private football clubs. These are the things we have to cut down. And once again praise the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4939	Thank you. Mr. Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4940	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. I would like to remind us that this report represents the consolidated Summary Report of all budget users and that at one of the previous sessions, we adopted a summary opinion in the audit reports on the financial operations of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013. For 14 years, and accurately stated the commitments through which it seemed to me that the following period saw shortcomings in the financial business of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina remove one part of the very important obligations directed towards the BiH Council of Ministers, which, among other things, should consider the 2013 audit reports with the obligation to produce full information on this and deliver the measures to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within no longer than 30 days for consideration. I hope that the Council of Ministers, in its current session, is working to realise this conclusion, but also in its conclusions under points 5 and 6 of a very important commitment aimed at the Council of Ministers. What was the practice of the previous years was that these obligations that we passed through the summary opinion on to the Council of Ministers were largely not realised, and then those in the next audit reports, i.e. financial accounts, were repeated and we had one significant progress but we did not think that if the conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives were to be carried out, they would bring a quality task. What I want to remind you of at this point, and this is what Mrs Pandurević said, a very important commitment which, in these previous years, we have failed to realise at all, and this is the creation of action plans for the Anti-Corruption Strategy and to highlight the missing plans for which, here in 94% of cases there are no state institutions. So this will also be the obligation of the future Council of Ministers. It is our constant obligation by Parliament to insist on the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to draw up these plans, because then they will certainly significantly improve the state of functioning when it comes to the financial effect of institutions in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I will probably ask the Council of Ministers, if not, to approach the realisation or if it is to inform us in which percentage the conclusions that the House of Representatives adopted and directed at one of the previous sessions have been implemented so far, not only the Council of Ministers but also other institutions, that these audit reports in the next period, as regards the financial effect, would be as high-quality as possible, i.e. to have one more transparent legal work, which is essentially the ultimate objective of functioning the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we in some way as a control factor to follow such a single realization. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4941	Thank you very much. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4942	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I certainly commend the Audit Office, because since they started doing the audit and the impact it is obvious that this financial discipline in spending budgets is increasing and still means we have the effects of their work. However, I would like to draw their attention to two things. One is the use of a rolling stock in the institutions of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which they are counting on, but apparently every single respondent, whose official vehicle is available, is using it for private purposes, so we have an organization of even party, hunting, etc., during the weekend, which is certainly the responsibility and manager of a particular service, that means taking care of it. 15 And the other thing that has never been spoken of so far, which is actually paying out of the budget on the basis of court rulings. Of course, the intention is very difficult to assess, but it seems to me that certain chiefs of service, or ministers, so to speak, directors of the administration, agencies, for their inaction allow judgments with enormous amounts to be paid out of the budget for losing judgments. For this reason, I would like to draw attention to the Audit Office to take account of this in the next period and, when it comes to impact review, take particular care of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4943	Thank you very much. Mrs Nermina Kapetanović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4944	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives. I would like to congratulate the representatives of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office who, in my opinion, objectively presented the existing situation within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I have pointed to as a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH over the past three years will be repeated and now, as I see no progress in spite of the fact that representatives of the Office for Audit and the previous years, so over the past years have pointed to certain irregularities in the work, I will not repeat what my distinguished colleagues have said, but I will point again to non-transparency in the process of employment, and especially at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina the fact that, therefore, the employment process is not transparent enough and that there are evident weaknesses in its conduct. The fact that administrative and supervisory committees, councils, commissions and other working bodies in institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as my esteemed colleague, is the fact that, therefore, no record of numerous established committees, councils, commissions and other bodies at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been established, and especially those financed from the Budget of BiH, the Budget of the BiH institution, cannot satisfy the representatives and we, I am personally expressing great dissatisfaction with that. I particularly mind, and that's why I have repeatedly reacted, I think every year when I consider this report, why there are no clear criteria and rules for forming committees. Who may be a member of certain commissions and other working bodies within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is particularly wrong that there are no specific deadlines for the completion of these commissions and there are no clearly set targets. We are witnessing that such things happen within parliaments and working bodies, as well as in the Council of Ministers. The fact that there is no, that the fees to the members of those bodies that I have mentioned are not justified from the aspect of achieving the objectives for which they were established, especially in the year in which we are trying to create savings at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think we should get out of here ourselves, so I think our colleagues might as well give up the fees, even on ad hoc commissions. And here I am one of those who will first agree to, if ever I am a member of the ad hoc commission, I will agree not to be paid for such an activity, because we must finally begin to train our strictness. And I think the convictions of the public are quite, rather justified when it comes to the relationship of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegates with regard to their own participation within the working bodies. 16 Governance of human resources as a fact which is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving the strategic objectives of the development of each institution and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should be a priority of this Parliament, especially in terms of planning the needs of the staff structure, obtaining staff elections and monitoring the evaluation of success. I've spent many years, three years at least, saying it's illogical, it's illogical two things. First, as I recall, the House of Peoples is, and I think the House of Representatives has also concluded that there is no new employment of any person in the past three years. We know there's been a number of jobs. But what hurts me the most as a delegate is the fact that we hire people with incomplete competences for certain jobs, and as an example, I have cited, with respect for the dignity of the person I'm talking about that I don't know about, it's not logical and natural that in the science and research sector is done by a professor of physical culture. On the contrary, we have employment bureaus, if we need someone in the scientific and research sector who can really help representatives in research in preparing for parliamentary work, then it would be natural for a person of adequate expertise and qualifications to be employed in the scientific and research sector, and such examples were very much. I think that the fact that they have not been adopted, so what I want to say before that must be done is an evaluation to see how human resources are managed within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to respect the final recommendation of the Office for Audit, both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on the respect of all aspects concerning human resources management within the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Audit Office also finds that no international accounting standards have been adopted for the public sector which is not normal, and the conclusion that the IT system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is still not satisfactory, I think it is also a shame, especially because we recently had ratification on the Foreign Affairs Commission, which I do not see here today, which concerns a large loan that should improve the work of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly and makes it easier for us to pass new laws. Nor have I seen that the IT sector has been particularly facilitated, taking care of the computer equipment that we had in the House of Peoples as delegates, nor have I seen experts who worked with us as legislators or presidents of committees in law making, and I think that fortunately this loan that was due to be on the agenda today, that it was taken down because it was really not transparently shown, who, on behalf of whom and with whose consent it was decided that the Parliamentary Assembly should be helped, who in the Council of Ministers, had someone in the Council of Ministers decided something like that, and we didn't really see that we had improved working conditions here within Parliament. What I'm still trying to say is that, knowing and aware of the fact that the issue of state property has not been resolved, the Audit Office of course warns about it, or that other activities that would precede the recording of the same in the official's business books have been done, I think we need to work particularly on that. And I think that the claim made by the auditors, and it has been repeated in the previous reports, as much as I remember, in the previous three years, that there has not been enough reliable internal control system in certain institutions when calculating extended work fees, if there are within the Parliamentary Assembly, nor have there been defined criteria that should ensure a rational and dedicated consumption of public funds at the expense of these fees. I think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should first start by taking care of the necessary savings, starting with itself and then thinking that this should also apply to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4945	Thank you. 17 Before we continue the discussion, only one technical information. Today, therefore, by mistake, it is not at all affecting the current course of the session, so the error of service is included in the session list instead of Dr Genjac the name of future representative in this House of Mr. Rančić, Mr. Genjac is still a representative of this House and is not present at this session, nor is Mr. Rančić present, therefore it does not affect at all, but I ask that this be deleted from this list so that there is no misunderstanding. The seats must be completely clear and completely clean. Mr. Genjac, if he accepts the mandate in the House of Peoples, then he will come to us, and this House will actually come to the situation to implement the procedure with the Election Commission on the appointment of the next from the list, the assignment of the mandate, and that is Mr. Rančić, but when he does. So, delete this from this voting list, technical services, write free Dr. Halid Genjac instead of Hazim Rančić and write that he is not present as he is not present either. Let's move on, Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4946	The Honorable Chairman, in the plural, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. Not wanting to get into the metrics, I'm not going to thank the audit here because they've been doing their regular work and what's their obligation, but I'm going to try to, after the first time in this House I've received an audit report, to mole-secrate it, and let's see what we have through the audit report as, and what can serve us as a basis for what we're being represented in this House. First of all, I resent auditors for not entering both vertically and horizontally in terms of financial flows. One who understands that well sees that it, that you do such an analysis yourself, comes to the disharmonicity of the data. Then what is it, what is it? The particular question is why the outflow of funds is done in such a way that those who are paid to give a job are re-paid through work on the same job in something called commissions, that everyone here emphasizes. Look, to give a job where the job description says it's in their jurisdiction through commissions again. Is it work in work or out of work? If it's out of business time then it's hours that are defined in those chess lists, which are bonuses or extra hours or they're paid through the hour and they're not corrosive paying commissions, because it's a regular job, it's something that's their regular job. Budgetary reserves, if anyone has looked at it, is Miss Pandurević mentioned, is it possible that that way of distribution and giving funds is possible, and here when we talk about funding something called top sports and selections that represent this country is very difficult to get funds or not at all, that small local private, etc., associations are essentially, because all clubs are associations, I'm sorry that Minister Čolak doesn't have it there so that he confirms it to us, get funds. The audit report must also possess the following, not only the financial part, and we will probably have to make some shifts in our parliamentary work, or amendments and additions, but as we will call it, about the ingenuities of those involved in the audit. Trying to get in and figure out where I came to do my job, this is my civic duty, my civic obligation, I'm amazed by the structure of employees. Because I can't come to get people to graduate at the age of 50 and not do a traineeship in a given profession becoming high-workers. It's very questionable who they are, what they are and what these people are, who is the quantum of their knowledge of the given place is more than questionable. You even have cases where they graduated this week, next week they're set up on such, you know the laws prescribe these states that they have to work in a professional preparation, they had to be interns. What's going on here? That's how we destroy that young potential that's being educated. Imagine me at this age to finish my studies, I would be ashamed of myself for those who walk the streets. Isn't that right? And 18 is very questionable in what higher education institutions. And that's where we're going to have to work something out, the revision isn't just financial, which is why we're going to have to take a step here that will give us a chance for the revision to have a much wider diapazon of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4947	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4948	I thank the chairman. Your colleagues and colleagues have a lovely greeting, pleasant work. So, I might try to speak for those MPs, hopefully I'll be able to speak for them, who haven't been here for half a decade in this House or maybe more. And now you have materials like the 2013 audit report and you have other materials on the agenda today such as agreements, or ratifications and many others, budgets, so that they came to this House on the basis of, therefore, election results and where they competed, and now they've met, so different professions, they've met with materials where they'd probably need a course to understand everything, uh, what's ahead of them and what they're raising their hands and deciding on. I know some of this, but I can't plead that I know too much and I won't waste much on this point, I'll take up a lot of your time, but I'd like the gentlemen of the Office of Audit to hear me if anything else. So, I have not prepared any conclusions, or perhaps some recommendations from the minutes if they want, namely on page 5, i.e. 8, excuse me, reports on how to take place under this point – Realising the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the conclusions of the parliaments, how conclusions and decisions are not realised, and for years it has been happening, so as if no one hears or sees what is being made here. And then you have on page 15, so the recommendations that are under way and those recommendations that are not implemented at all on page 17, and the total text is a hundred pages. I would like to, I don't know if there is a possibility of a legislative, technical, legal basis on which they work, so they may choose and propose to this House a four, five recommendations that have a key and significant impact on the financial business of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And at that point, on these four, five suggestions and suggestions, their recommendations, so let this go all the way, let them do their job, so in 2015 we watch over those four, five key, essential things that can fix us. Because in the woods of all the recommendations of how vehicles are used and who is hired to discuss this House, so we simply forget, so what is important to us is the process of working these institutions. So, therefore, if possible and if they can hear me and if they have a way of listening to it, then, with this document, we may set out four, five measures that we will take in 2015, and that we will watch them as Parliament at the end of the year or at the end of the year... ask to see if these measures have been implemented, but insist, of course, that, on their recommendations, they work on other measures and implement in accordance with the law and what each one is, each institution is obliged to implement. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4949	Thank you very much. I don't have any more applications for discussion, and we do, so Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4950	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. I'm not going to get into an evaluation at all, an evaluation of the debate and any controversy. I just checked in here to try to make a contribution and focus on the materials that are on the agenda. On several occasions, there were comments as to how late materials were not properly delivered and the rest. Previous material was the BiH presidency's material delivered on 11.07.2014. This material we are now discussing and on whom there were the same remarks why it was late, it was delivered in 24.09.2014. Both materials were delivered on time, the Ministry of Finance delivered materials for the previous point to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers forwarded it to the Bureau, the Presidency adopted it according to the budget calendar and in fact there's no point in wasting time and arguing that someone was late, that someone didn't want to do anything. As far as this material is concerned, the Audit Office did it on time, because the audit process has its legality, it takes a long time, and I remind you that it was delivered 24.09. I am not talking about the content of one document or another, just to correct it and to say that the institutions they delivered, both the Presidency and the Office of Audit, delivered the materials within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4951	Thank you very much. Mr. Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4952	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs. The purpose of this audit report, as it has covered here and showed us all the gaps in this period, i.e. in 2013, will have its purpose if we MPs elected to this Parliament do our best to remove these shortcomings. Here's Mrs. Pandurević mentioned only in one vault where she could save 6 million, or 15 million marks. If we were to analyze this in detail and then we would see here that these are far greater amounts. It will be sad if we welcome 2018 and every year we have an audit report for the past year with these shortcomings that are indicated, then I think we will not be as people and chosen by the people in the country where we live, and we know by the categories where Bosnia and Herzegovina is, I don't think we will be, we will have an excuse to say anything to our voters. The audit has shown here, as my colleague said behind me, the audit should do its job, so they are paid, it is their job, they should neither be praised nor ashamed, but the fact here is that everything has been pointed out and I am urging that our work and the task is to remove this and that next year, when we have an audit report for the past year, to see that much has been done and removed here. Also, here's the fellow said, I had a reason to be invited to a university as a guest and to attend a graduation, my colleague you said 50 years old, the gentleman was 61 years old, and then we wonder what kind of society we live in, what kind of expertise we get, and what kind of future we leave for our youth. Here, in short just to say more here on our obligation as MPs, regardless of which political parties they came from, legitimate work implies that it must be present on all segments, and here from the revision we see that many things are legally not regulated, that many things are arbitraryly placed on people's consciences and 20 consciences, and then we are coffees, I don't think we should do this in the future and that we should do everything in the legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4953	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, and you, Mr. Krčmar, will be disengaged from the display.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4954	I will Iskoristić this opportunity to point out something positive from this Audit Office Report, which is that 22 institutions have received a purely positive opinion from the Audit Office. I think we should commend these institutions, although these reports are not numbered, but here I will take this opportunity to point out that those who work well should get to know the public well and work in accordance with the financial laws of this country. But also very worrying that 43 institutions have an opinion with a reserve, i.e. they do not have a clear opinion. We heard a lot of these negative discussions about the execution of the budget for 2013, and I agree that this House meeting should not have been confronted at all with such an opportunity and discussed something that has been past long ago, but circumstances have been such that we are now in this situation, and therefore would have made a brief comment that despite all these negative discussions with the reserve, the opinion contains the assumption that the institutions were still working in accordance with the financial legislation and legislation that prescribed the way of reporting. This is positive, but it is negative that recommendations are not respected, or repeated. I therefore think it is very important to note that the re-recommendation for non-compliance with the conditions for setting up IPA monitoring structures, we know how much IPA funds mean as the possibility of financial resources for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I therefore believe that this should be done, as well as this recommendation, especially and on an up-to-date basis. I also don't know if we can take this opportunity to get an answer – are these structures related to IPA funds established or at least the path towards establishing these structures closer so that both Bosnia and Herzegovina can finally use the IPA funds as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4955	Thank you. The Republic is owned by Mr. Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not a replica, it's more like trying to make things a little bit clearer. I think that along with this audit report it was necessary to deliver, I think that this was a failure of those who prepared this session, and a summary opinion on the audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH institutions for 2013, and I think the situation would be a little clearer because in essence all discussions are going in this direction, this, ignorance of what is so far, most notably the Commission for Finance and Budget and then the Representative's House, are working on the audit reports. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall, therefore, have the obligation to hear the institutions, or their managers, on the occasion of the adoption of the audit reports. We of 72 institutions have here only 7 institutions that have rated the Office of Audit by a qualification of opinions with a reserve with an emphasis on the subject. Others, other institutions functioned in a way that we had other reports positive, with 21 43 being truly positive but with the emphasis of one item. The House of Representatives, on a proposal from the Commission for Finance and Budget, asked the Office for Audit to make specific recommendations in order to eliminate the shortcomings that have been observed predominantly in these seven audit reports assessed with a reserve with an emphasis on the case. All of this is in this summary opinion, and I think it is necessary to deliver such an act to the MPs, that, here we see what has been done so far, that it may be some kind of urn, whether, for their or our future work together. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4957	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4958	The esteemed chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests. Because the first time I've called, I wish all of us happy work. And I'm really glad we already have one discussion where we see that we're all somehow on the same page. And I will commend this Audit Office report, because simply although a colleague says we should not praise those who have done their job, unfortunately in Bosnia and Herzegovina we are witnessing that we must because we are really surprised to see that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in our administrative bodies, someone is doing his job. What is unclear to me in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when we pass some laws, and amendments and additions to the law, is that there are no sanctions for those who do not implement their law, i.e. in these audits and reports, the competent ministry, or those who manage the ministry, to be named and renamed, and to be sanctioned for their unhappiness. If we already praise those who carry out their work, those who do not should be sanctioned. As far as commission fees are concerned during working hours, which are well known for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, can also be very easy to resolve, there is no compensation if you are employed in the bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, i.e. to reduce unemployment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are very happy to hire young educated, qualified people who are on the bureau and have no opportunity to be employed anywhere because they are currently unsuitable and not incompetent. Human resource management is one of the key issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I hope that in this mandate, we will work on resolving this issue, because whether we reduce the budget, whether we are dealing with anything else, if we do not have quality people, or those who will be employed by their ability and not by similarity. The appeal also to all political parties for the next Council of Ministers to be competent people, not those who will only do someone's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4959	Thank you very much. So, no more reported. Whether the Office's representative, the deputy general auditor, you want to. Here you go. After this debate will be closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4960	I welcome the chairman, the members of the College and the MPs and the others present. 22 Well, first of all, I would really like to thank you for the constructive discussions and all the support we have from this House. A lot is actually said what I was going to say, so not to repeat myself, I'm just going to maybe try to point out one more time and maybe answer a few questions that I've recorded to myself, and they've come out of these discussions. What is true, and you yourself have observed, and what we repeat from year to year, and these are the very recommendations that we make through the revision of these financial reports and what is really symptomatic that they are continuously repeated. In fact, the percentage of the implementation of the recommendations that are given, I will now actually only talk about this report, since I have seen from the discussion that some may have mixed up the audit reports of individual institutions, this is about a consolidated report and in fact it is a sublimation of all individual budgets of institutions. We made 96 recommendations this year, while in each report we did one analysis of the recommendations given in the previous report, and which we looked at and looked at a little bit, he could see that only 9 recommendations were implemented in the previous period, 34 recommendations were unrealised, and 23 recommendations are ongoing. In some ways, auditors also accept in the process if anything is started and is done in the implementation of the recommendation itself, simply classify it in that category of recommendations in progress. I would particularly point out in fact all of our recommendations that most of this House, in fact almost can be said in a 100% acceptance and create as its conclusions, these same conclusions are not implemented and are not implemented in action by those who are actually intended. Despite the fact that these conclusions are not actually realized I would also point out the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is interesting, at the time of the revision 80 is the decision of the Constitutional Court which has not been implemented. In the countries of the environment, e.g. You can do this, you can happen to have one or two convictions that have not been implemented. But if you look at all these reports that we had, the ones that were in the earlier session, it'll remember our impact review reports, and when one link is made to all these reports, we actually tried these most significant recommendations that we've been making to process through the impact review reports. And because of that, I think it was Mr. Mehmedović's question about significant expenditure on the name of lost court disputes, the fact is and we recognized it through the revision of financial reports, e.g. that they were 14 million in five years, and 600 states paid those actually costs, namely only lost so far disputes. And we've done one impact review that's going to be, it hasn't been yet I mean at the House of Representatives, it's going to be the subject of consideration. Through the impact audits, we had an audit of employment, a revision of the use of official cars, a revision of the lease of business spaces, I mean all of these most significant, so to speak, the failures that happen and where some new value can be obtained, we processed them through the impact review. And indeed what, in particular, I think, should pay attention to, is, what is defined by the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, these are cost-benefit analyses that should be devoted to the establishment and approval of the budget, what perhaps the Ministry of Finance should pay more attention to, these are so-called. cost-benefit analysis. We are witnesses now again, despite the fact that significant funds are being allocated to the lease, that significant funds are still being invested in the name of construction and procurement, but they are not reducing that lease position. This should be connected in some way, if you invest significant funds in that position, the leases should be reduced. However, we still have significant resources. We have an example. This problem you've been saying about work contracts, non-transparent employment. I've pointed that out a couple of times, really that's what comes out of all these reports, that we institutions that we have the most, so to speak, unemployed by some contracts that have not been implemented in one transparent way. What's first is the promotion of audit, transparency, public and moral responsibility. I just didn't understand Mr. Backović's question about the structure, whether the general staff or in the Audit Office when it comes to gaining and schooling through work. 23 ZIIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4961	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4962	And generally, well. So again, I'm telling you, what we should perhaps pay more attention to, you're going to see and how all these impact review reports are coming up, it's these biggest and most significant failures that we've identified, actually what's the criterion of impact review, that there's a social problem, that it can be provided and that some new value is acquired. And indeed, there can and can be saved by many of these segments, but it just needs to be implemented. I wasn't on this committee when there was a debate on this point, but there was a conclusion proposed there regarding the revision of the work of these boards. I would just point out that we had a review of the commission's work and where we pointed out and counted all those problems. Parliament adopted these recommendations as its conclusions, the Council of Ministers considered and gave certain tasks to the finance ministry. The fact is that in that report it was not the work of the boards of directors as a sample but there were other commissions which, by some analogy, were in a similar way financed. By making a significant number, I would just point out, when it comes to boards of directors, it is not only in the jurisdiction of state institutions, since other entity laws also provide for the participation of individual members and work on boards, so that is quite a complex issue. When we did that impact review, we were suggested even by these international consultants that we could and better take it when it comes to the work of committees, since the work of the boards was determined by other laws, not only by state but also by entity. So here I am, here's how much I could answer some questions and briefly point out some of my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4963	Thank you very much, Mr. nekić. So, this was the deputy general auditor, Mr. Dževad Nekić, to do a stenogram we know who was behind the pay phone. No more reports. We have this way to conclude this 6th point of the agenda. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. Seven. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013 The report was submitted in the procedure on 24 September 2014. The Competent Constitutional Commission of the Report delivered its opinion on 28 January 2015 and took note of the report. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Until someone picks up, so I say hello, there's Mr. Milan Tegeltija here, he's the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and I welcome him. It's our custom to have a debate, so in the end, whoever submits the report, 24 if of course he wants to, has a chance to address the House, so I'd like to ask you to do it this time. Madam Vice-President, First Vice-President, Mrs. Borjana Krišto has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4965	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests and respected media, I warmly welcome you all. Here, by discussing the agenda item Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2013 I felt I needed to report, in a way to comment, and actually to say in advance, what else to say than to repeat in some way, as the report repeats from year to year. It is methodologically done in one way that contains everything that should contain a single report of one institution, whether it refers to the work of the judiciary or to another body of the administration, but it also speaks of problems of some sort, but perhaps not from closeness in the way that the situation is actually in the judiciary. We have certain things that from year to year in the Report can be read the same reviews that relate to both quality and quantity of work. Statistically in some things and indicators some things change, and even they are not, to say the least different. All together, when we read and look at it, we cannot be satisfied with the organisation, so certainly neither the quality nor the quantity of the work of the judicial institutions in a broader sense, which means the work of both the courts and prosecutors in BiH. It's visible in different ways. I'm saying this all in order because I hope there's no one here who doesn't care that the judiciary works in a way that is truly impartial and independent, because what if it does so is the only indicator that I can say, the functioning and the rule of law, because through the work of the judiciary and through the decision-making of the judicial bodies, we are in the finalisation of our laws and we are talking about the functioning of the rule of law. From this content, it is evident how the judiciary works for many reasons. We see that we're piling up objects from year to year, so we've got almost cases of age and 25 years old. We can see that in this content we also have proposals that speak in the number of increases in citizens' complaints from year to year. That's terrifying. We have more than a thousand complaints about the work of the judicial authorities. We have a situation that it's obvious that objects go into obsolescence because of the lack of judicial work, and not by entering whether these reasons are obsolescence absolute or relative, it's certainly obvious that such reasons can be affected. There must be no reason for one object to go into oblivion, and that the reason is the inability to reach the accused or any other reason, whatever it is. We also see that the courts are working in a way that we cannot in any way say that their decisions are in line with European conventions on fundamental human rights. Here, just one fact – we know how and how the BiH Court works. He makes decisions in the first degree, and at the same time, it's the only case, I don't really know him anywhere, that the same case decides on its decisions. The principle of decision-making is also not respected within a reasonable period. We see by the positions of the Constitutional Court of BiH what number has been decided by the Court of Justice to make a decision within a reasonable period of time, or by giving the applicants a certain amount of compensation because the time limit for a reasonable trial has been missed and thus an injury done. If I didn't say a lot of other reasons, I wouldn't want to get into the essence of individual objects, etc., we see how they're classified, etc., we could always make some remarks. My intention is not to, my intention would be to carry all of us, in a way, to point out that we are responsible for the functioning of this judiciary and for the situation. We see that reform 25 under the auspices of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has not yielded results. We also know that the reform is going towards the reorganisation of the judiciary by the system of structural dialogue, we know that there are problems there too. But what I want to say here in front of this House one more time, it's the responsibility of all of us. We have recommendations to ask the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in what way it should influence, or recommendations for executive power, recommendations for legislative authority, and they apply only in the sense that the contribution to the functioning of judicial independence would be, the functioning of the judiciary in a way to ensure it has certain means. I don't think that's the only way for the judiciary to be independent. We need to make the judiciary independent and in terms of organisation, in terms of quality, in terms of quantity, in terms of functioning, means financing and in this sense we will ensure the functioning of the rule of law. And that's what we all need, because the main and fundamental principle, that we're all equal in front of the law. And until the judiciary is truly independent and impartial, none of us can feel in this and this BiH either in general or, in a safe sense, legally protected. Not to mention the situations we hear every day, that in the prosecution, that one prosecutor, I don't know, from one party, the other in another court from another, etc. It's not an unknown to us, I don't want to provoke, I don't want to invite, I don't want to call, but it's really ugly stuff. My contribution as advocates in this House of Representatives is that I will indeed insist on the functioning of the rule of law, which is the basis for establishing an independent and impartial judiciary. Therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly has the responsibility to ask the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, or institutions working on the organisation, to do everything through legal legislation. Surely it is not the job of our individual representatives, but we will through, through, here is our debate and our contribution through the adoption of the law, certainly in the right way be able to influence and tell us, so that the judiciary and the rule of law will function in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the interest of all its citizens and peoples living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here's my colleague, Aleksandra Pandurević, for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4967	I thank you for your esteemed chairman. A good part of what I was about to say myself, you said in your discussion. Unfortunately, for five full years now, we've been reading the same reports of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, except it's changing according to some statistical data, and what we see is that, thanks to digitization, we're finally on our way to a little faster communal problems. I can conclude from this report that our judiciary is doing a bad job, that it does not process organised crime and corruption, because it has a problem with unresolved municipal problems that have been accumulated. I can also conclude from these rich photographs in this report, and I hope that colleagues have seen construction works on various courts, prosecutors, etc., that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is the organizer of construction works, and that it is one of their primary activities. And of course, the very important aspect of their work is also the website, which 26 certainly needs, but I really think that for this Parliament and society as a whole, it is very irrelevant how many visits to the pages of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council per month. What I'm interested in, here's the first time this year we really have what's taken away from the property. How much the court seized during 2013. But let's just say it doesn't have what we need both as Parliament and as a society to see what these new social phenomena are, which are new forms of crime, what is our state of juvenile delinquency. I don't see it from these reports. I must say, I also see that, colleague Krišto spoke about respect for conventions and equalising court practice, I see here that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has been some arbitration officer to level this practice, but we have no information as to whether the practice is truly uniform at last or still the courts that anyone wants to apply whatever practice they want or cancel, and unfortunately we have had some memos from the President of the Court to the district courts that the laws will apply, which is unacceptable. I am sorry that I learned much more about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's justice system, Mr. Tegeltija, from a TV show called "Fairly" on Federal TV that you and the President of the Court of Justice and BiH hosted, rather than from this report. In this report on the fight against crime and corruption, a few paragraphs have been devoted, which is the cancer of this society's wounds. Unfortunately, but well, I guess our chief prosecutor will show up at the D.A.'s report, for years we've had promises here in this room, and we've also had from the chief prosecutor, that finally after here 5-6 years since the complaint by the Republika Srpska MUP on the suspension of the investigation into the cases of "dobrovoljački“ and "The Prosecution Column" the prosecution will announce. We still don't know what's wrong with that. The D.A.'s still not handling it. What was terrible for me, which I would love because we have a rare opportunity, but that's already 2014, but there you are, and that's from your term of office, in that show you hosted, the President of the Court of BiH says, quote -- that there is a judicial mafia in this country. It's a terrible accusation, and it even illustrates some of the examples, even if you want to modify a disciplinary prosecutor's decisions in a judge's case from, you know who it's about, from Banja Luka. It is terrible that we have statements from the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the case, whether it was called the "Gibraltar" action, the marketing mafia, and then the statement is covered by the BiH Court of Justice, spectacular arrests, a major affair, and that is expected to be detained, people released. And then in the media, we read some very serious accusations against the prosecutor who ran the case. Whether he asked for detention within the legal time limit or not, so from some insinuations and these texts, that he might be suspected of being a prosecutor and corrupt, or perhaps a corrupt judge, so these people didn't end up in jail. And instead of getting the answers to that question, I saw from that show that you've been arbitration between the Court and the D.A.'s office that they're not fighting each other anymore. I'm very interested in this, and I know that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is running property records of judges and prosecutors and I often meet some judges and prosecutors on the street in Lukavica and I'm amazed by the luxury of cars that they drive, private, not official ones. Or their property records that we read in the media, that one prosecutor for his working life, no matter how much he earns, could buy 7-8 apartments. Or, for example, let us read in the media the indictment, the word of the lutka “ in which one businessman is bound for terrible things. He was never invited to the D.A.'s office to answer, but then, behold, a miracle, a prosecutor right in that building where that businessman he built bought an apartment. So these are the cancers of our society's wounds and we need to talk about it. I don't want to claim at all that the whole system is corrupt, but we need to clear it up, there's a responsibility of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council with those 5% perhaps corrupt judges and prosecutors who are causing damage to the entire society. Well, please, here we have had the operation "Gibraltar" a great spectacular arrest, nowhere to be charged. Pandora action, we still don't have the charges. For seven years, the Meat campaign has been under investigation for 27 years, and I'm not going in at all if it's necessary or not, but it's very indicative that you've been running an investigation for seven years, and it's in a pre-election campaign that someone ends up in jail for a month and then released from prison again. I ask you, and what I found in this report stuck to my eye, he says – certain political parties have proposed to increase the role of the executive and legislative authorities of appointed prosecutors, while limiting the role of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. This proposal to politicise the appointment gives rise to concerns. Well, I'm afraid that our situation in the judiciary is such that, behind the independence of the judiciary, there are all irregularities, abuses, etc., which the justice system doesn't suit anyone, which doesn't account for anyone. I mean, I'm sorry to use that term, but it acts like a sacred cow. They're infallible and no one can touch them. But the moment someone gets laid, I think the situation will be different. The moment this Parliament is able to refuse the report, whether the court, the prosecution, the High Court and whoever is at the head of that institution is therefore removed from that function, I think our situation in the judiciary will be very different. No political party can choose either the chief prosecutor, a consensus is needed. Well, we now know that all the leading positions are in the judicial system, chosen by the political options, not to lie, to speak plainly. Well, Mr. Tegeltija, we know in the end line and in your case that the helicopters of the Republika Srpska government have been raised to lobby for your appointment. So that's the facts and that's it. And it's not a problem, let the policy be appointed also by the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Chief Prosecutor and the President of the Court, but let it be known that that is the case and let the political parties also answer for the lack of the work of those courts. So, unfortunately, nothing new except that we keep reading that new money is needed, there needs to be an additional increase in the budget of the judicial institutions. He says, structural dialogue, I see with you here commendation, that they are good, from Republika Srpska we hear that structural dialogue is not satisfied again. I don't know, here's what I'd really like to hear about this structural dialogue. When are we finally going to start getting legal proposals from this structural dialogue, when are we going to get proposals, I don't know the new High Court and Prosecutorial Council Act, about courts? How far did this structural dialogue come? Whether or not there have been even a session in recent times, there have been some abandonment of individual members. We had, I'll remind you here and it interests me, even someone showed up, we in Parliament didn't get it, but in the media we could read one
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4968	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4969	Here I am ending the chairman, a letter from the former EU Special Representative here, which is in a very ugly way, depicted the situation in the judicial system, Mr Sorensen. Now, these are some of the questions that if you can, I'd be grateful if you could answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4970	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4971	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. 28 There is a report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2013. As the chairman of the introduction said in the parliamentary procedure, this report came in the 9th month 2014. I don't know who remembers who more in 2013, I happen to remember, but it seems to me that these reports should at least be considered in February of the month and we should already have a 2014 report today. I don't know what's so complicated that it's waiting until the 9th month, and here we are after the 9th month, after five months we're discussing and we have a part of the 2013 Work Report. He has his reasons, too, probably, but I think if we look at the essence of this report and compare it to the previous years when unfortunately, three years in a row this House has not received a report from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, does anyone wonder why he didn't take it into account? I'm saying today, perhaps undisputedly not for those reasons why this report didn't get a pass in a row for three years in this House, but we have to ask ourselves in the first row why the report doesn't come at least in the first quarter of the next year for last year. On the other hand, we have been asking for a few years to be delivered to us a report on the cost of donations received by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council from foreign embassies, other states or, I don't know, some NGOs, etc. We're on our own misery, it seems to me last year or before last year, just got information about where the funds were spent, like we don't have that right. Then I ask... a question whose institution is it? Is this the institution of Great Britain, the United States, Germany, Turkey or do I not know which country is already on the list here, because as soon as the embassies are delivered this Work Report? Are these embassies adopting these reports, or should the report be adopted, or should we not? Starting with us having ambitions to build a democratic society, and in a democratic society is one of the pillars of justice and justice. And as regulator, if I may say so, or the co-ordinator of the work of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should ensure that the conditions in which the judiciary and the prosecution will be independent of political influence. Today we listen to cries from one institution and another that we have terrible pressures from certain leaders, both judges and prosecutors. Is that an independent prosecutor's office, or a court of law? It's not. So, I don't think this report should have waited this long, here's a year and something, to be on the agenda, because this report is very similar to that report last year, so it's very similar to that of the previous, etc., etc. It changes, as one says, only in the number of cases that unfortunately accumulate and increase, and it accumulates irrelevant objects, persecuted or tried, neither do I, there those who stole the bike, and not the large fish responsible for organised crime in this country. And we keep saying, you know, when it comes to pre-election campaigns -- we're going to fight crime and corruption, etc. If this is a fight then I do not want to fight corruption and crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way. So I'm asking you to take care of these things. Furthermore, based on the meaning of your competences, you gave us some recommendations here, actually how I read these recommendations on all issues, and on efficiency, and on quality, independence, etc., are mainly recommendations to the executive and legislative authority. I don't see any recommendations to myself, what do you think you're going to do to secure an independent judiciary, that is, the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I do not think, for these reasons, that this report should get a positive move from representatives in the House of Representatives, but since many, even political factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are trying to make these institutions disappear in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would lead Bosnia and Herzegovina into a very difficult position, I will suggest, at my club, that we find some compromise solution, not to reject the report, but indeed if 29 will continue to come to us so late and such contained reports, then there is no need to consider them. For what legal facts and consequences they have received from me, whether they have received knowledge or not. Nothing. Therefore, let us make the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council more efficient and, of course, help you as a House of Representatives, as a legislative authority that has its own degree of responsibility with regard to building a democratic society in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore just as one of the elements of a democratic society in the world in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4972	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ...the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina began a long time ago, at a time when I was a representative at the Federation Parliament's Representative Club. After many failed years, for which the international community, including us within Bosnia and Herzegovina, recognises that the reform of the BiH judiciary is poorly conceived, placed, done, and failed, I am proud to point out today, which I have pointed out for the past three years in the House of Peoples, that I was one of the two who did not vote in the Federation for Justice Reform Parliament. It was me and Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Why? Because we pointed to certain shortcomings in judicial reform, so let's say one negligible, then negligible, little detail, which is... An independent judicial committee has long pointed out that there is no justification for the accession of courts to violations of general courts, because there will be a pile of cases, and then there will be a phenomenon of limitations, and then after a large report that... a new report has been written which the same people wrote, but who changed the uniform. They moved to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and now, they claimed otherwise. Time has shown that, what my colleagues were talking about, the phenomenon of antiquity is absolutely something that is inadmissible, that at least in this number, so I can't understand at all how it is possible that here at the Report, in the report on the implementation of the Strategy for the Reform of the Justice Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2013, which mentions the activities carried out in the context of the pillar one, i.e. the judiciary in terms of independence and harmonisation, efficiency and efficiency, accountability and professionality, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council estimates itself very high. It assesses itself very high, regardless of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and particularly the Commission for Human Rights of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, has very often pointed to harsh violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of illogical judgments coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the same Court on the protection of human rights in Strasbourg warns of. Of course, that perhaps the foundation, one reason to be and the fact that the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina is trying to politicise. I am among those who feel it is not acceptable for political parties to influence the choice of prosecutors. The choice of prosecutors should be influenced only by the profession, education and knowledge and is not logically chosen by a number of prosecutors. We could see in the media a great debate during all of the above-mentioned affairs that were mentioned here today by my very distinguished colleagues. I remember then one of the former judges said that there are not only countries in the environment, but countries they have, EU countries, which have very high standards when one can become, say, a Constitutional Court judge. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, such strict criteria do not exist. For example, in Germany, there are very, very strict criteria when, when, how many years of education, how many special subsequent exams must be passed by a certain person to become judge of the Constitutional Court, say entities. I just think there have been some political appointments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was, of course, against the involvement of politics in the appointment of judges, and today I am against it, and I will be as long as I am involved in politics. And it is good that you have expressed concern in your report, although you are all aware within the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that there are among you those who have a political determination, or have a certain attitude towards political parties. So I wouldn't say you're independent and impartial. I agree that there are political attacks on the judiciary, but I don't think that financial constraints and... budget powers are the primary culprits for endangering your independence. Your independence is primarily threatened by the pressure of political parties and criminals in Bosnia and Herzegovina who, unfortunately, have a lead with the judiciary. It is a good and encouraging fact that the number of complaints about the work of judicial officials has increased, but then I don't know what you express your self-satisfaction with the number of cases solved and your self-satisfaction is expressed here, which, you imagine, is a percentage of the average quality you estimate 97.3% of the average quality of court decisions. I know that your parameters for calculating the quality of court decisions are so that quality counts as a set of abolished decisions, the number of amended decisions made after the main debate, etc., but a huge number of pending cases, and I am now telling you as a doctor, humanist, anesthesiologist and reanimatologist, a longtime parliamentarian, if doctors did as you do in courts, I don't even know if there were 50% of the population living in this country, because you have a terribly large, unforgivable number of unsolved cases. I do not agree absolutely with your high assessment, therefore, with the facts you point out in terms of assessment and evaluation of the quantity of work of courts, because, therefore, here your colleagues have told you, inadmissible, inadmissiblely large, enormous number of unsolved cases with very high wages, and your salaries are not mentioned, and I think you should pay even better to work even better, but to be independent. You better get paid by the parliamentarians with that you'll pay, but then you have to raise your wages and pay, say, doctors who save people's lives. It is inadmissible, therefore, that the Faculty of Law, with all due respect to the very highly educated, honorable and moral judges that I know have completed the four-year college and six months of judicial examination, because they say that an average intellectual man, that in six months he can prepare a judicial exam. Judges in BiH have high salaries. On the other hand, you have a brand of anesthesiologist, there are people here who are from practice, you have a cardiologist, they have a salary of 1,300 marks. And very often my colleagues are the subject of an investigation because they are sued by patients, because they have the right, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, I am among those who have proposed this right, and often doctors are tried and withdrawn from licenses in cases of error. And the license is to be taken away from everyone who has sinned, but behind them is six years of medical school, four years of specialization, three years of postgraduate and usually four years of PhD, for a basic salary of 1,300 marks. And there are no unsightly patients, but there's been a general dissatisfaction with the poor health atmosphere because the family doctor has been ordered and you can't come straight up. So, I have to take that honorable dam off that black veil that's being put over the doctors and it would be inadmissible for such a large number of unsolved cases to happen in health, with such a small salary and a basic substrate is human life. Of course truth and justice are a very difficult substrate. The truth is something that is fundamental to my life and what I stand for and try to associate with people who love the truth just as much as I do, but you have no excuse. And what my colleague said about the rolling stock, and about the high wages and the education you have. So, the international community has given you everything, absolutely everything, but it's happened that you're setting up for judges of constitutional courts for people whose appointments you're receiving directives from political parties and I think it's very, very problematic this moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is related to the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 31 Of course, I want to apologize to this discussion to all those honorable, honest, correct judges. I mostly, most of my friends are lawyers and are judges who love the truth just as much as I do, and I know it's very hard for them to work, let's just say the judges of the basic courts are literally overwhelmed by the things they carry home. But please, you couldn't have or yours... who once made a point, and those same people who went to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and we both know who we're talking about, who said it was a worthwhile reform of the judiciary, and here's all the facts here say it wasn't. And the international community points us to that, and it claims that it is not, is it not enough obligation for you, that you examine yourselves, that you see who you set, how you set, that you finally step away from politics and that you finally start to appreciate the profession, not politics and instruction from political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4974	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4975	...the chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So it's about the 2013 report. It is true that at the beginning of 2015, however, by analysing and making a comparative analysis with the report that we had here in the House of Representatives in 2012 and 2011, it is clear and it is clear that a lot of the shortcomings and problems facing the judiciary, and these years show that we have these problems in 2013, and according to my knowledge...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4976	We're gonna lose the quorum, you can't get out now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4977	We also have in 2015. So from that time point of view, if possible, it would be good to consider reports for one year at least in the following year, but from the point of view it is clear that there is room for a serious debate here in the House of Representatives. The second thing I'm saying is that as representatives of the legislative authority, we should certainly be very sensitive when we talk and discuss the third pillar of power, about the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe and believe that I share the opinion of my colleagues here at the House of Representatives that our role is not to interfere in any way with the work of the judiciary, but rather to see how we can do, in accordance with our powers, one contribution to building a truly independent and quality judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it seems to me that for years, not to say for decades, we have built one climate in this country, that all have become masters of the transfer of responsibility. Instead of such an approach, I think a much more constructive approach would be to actually see what everyone within every authority of the government in this country, including any individual, can do to change the situation for the better in this country, including the judiciary. Therefore, I would also like to say that there should be an approach, not only a critical approach, but a self-critical approach. I think we need to start acting, not just in words, but in actions and concrete moves. When I say so, I would like to say that, and remind you, we have the possibility as a House of Representatives to ask for a number of things from the executive body, from the Council of Ministers of BiH. We as 32 MPs are also privileged legislators and other projects in this House. So we too have the opportunity to make things worse when it comes to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We in this report, when we analyze it in detail and read it, we see that people in the judiciary feel that they do not have complete independence when it comes to funding. I share this opinion well, and I think that the task is also before us as MPs, especially at the BiH Council of Ministers, to resolve this issue in a quality way in the coming period. There are no obstacles for us to express our position here in the direction that we have justice that will be more quality and efficient. Why do we have so many pending cases in the Bosnia and Herzegovina judiciary? When we go deeper into this problem, we see that, according to my information, if I remember correctly in the report, over 2/3 of these unsolved items are communal objects. There are proposals to pass a set of laws here and in the BiH Parliament that would help the judiciary shut down and solve the problem. We should not even be afraid in the BiH Parliament to talk about certain positive things that happen in the judiciary. I think that's what you should say about it, not just having one critical approach. In my court, introducing information into the judiciary, then establishing a video conference system and a number of other things is something to welcome here at Parliament's House of Representatives. And finally, not to spread too much of my discussion, I think that, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, we have also been given specific recommendations concerning responsibility, efficiency, quality, etc., financing. For me, they are acceptable, and in this sense I suggest that we, as a legislative authority, also support it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4978	Thank you very much. I apologize to a colleague I just asked to stay out of the O.R. because, uh, I've received information from the secretary, we've lost the quorum. He didn't deserve me to tell him, because many others before him went out and I want to make it public, so I say here, but I would ask you to make sure that our presence is such that we always have a quorum. The word is Mr. Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4979	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs. Since I've been in the judiciary and around the judiciary for over 30 years, working before the war as a judge, and since 1989 as a lawyer and a member of the Bar Association then Bosnia and Herzegovina and a member of the Assembly for over 25 years, I want to say that this report needs to be watched that, quite normally, that people will always try as we do when we come here to make ourselves a little more beautiful, to sort out, to look here and decent and beautiful, so that even in the Report, they're always trying to show it maybe even a little bit more beautiful than it looks. But we have to be realistic here, and I think I'm competent to talk about this subject for a lot of reasons, because I was one, it came out, and in the paper then some '88-'89. For years, I was one of the judges who had a few years of passing decisions above the republican average. You know, in an orderly society, you can look for an orderly judiciary. If you live in a country where everything is arranged then it is challenging to ask that you have a regulated and a judiciary as one segment of society. This is one complex topic where you have the police, you have the prosecution, you have the courts, 33 if it's not tied up you can't even ask for quality judgments, the verdicts to be made in time, and all of this can point to statutes of limitations, what you're saying. However, it is not that problem is essential. Until the war we had a quality judiciary, so as a judge then I had 800 marks of pay, but then we had newsletters that went out every month, we had a harmonised court practice, and now you have a Federation of BiH court where by the same theme you have two councils, two different positions. And then the question arises how can you work, two councils of the Federation of BiH Supreme Court, when it comes to working relations, identical cases. And that's what we don't even have uniform court practices, we used to have regular conferences, or counsellings, were usually in Opatija, I mean in the Admiral, where they were judges of constitutional courts. I remember well that it was Mr. Crnić and Žuvela Mladen, etc., at that time, my smallness was, since the case-law had raised questions, at the head... and I was the man who was the problem, which was not legally introduced into the legal form, because the case law imposed, pointed out and then entered the law. The saddest thing was when I watched a show on the Alternative TV of Republika Srpska about justice and what about judicial reform, etc., and the subject came to talk to the doctor. He's out there in some commission in the National Assembly, etc., and it's as frantic as if I were going to talk about reform now, as my colleague used to say is from that profession, health reform. So this is a very complex question, and don't expect us to have something more significant next year. What happened? The international community has set certain standards that it has in its countries, without respecting the fact that we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a country like this, it is, here we live. But it cannot be realized overnight. We cosmetically arranged the dishes, introduced so-called. The CM system, but they all make up people, judgments are made by judges, especially we have received the European Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. It is not only textual to read those members, these are dozens and dozens of books of court practice so that the judge can properly apply. Although, as a colleague here has said, if you have in a country where 80 and some judgments of the Constitutional Court are not carried out, then we ask the question of what we are doing, what are our governments doing, who are responsible for implementing those decisions, then the question of ourselves is being asked. Dear colleagues, we pass laws, entities pass laws and judges work according to these laws. So it's a complex matter, a problem to get involved in, not doctors, don't blame me, not engineers, but people with a long career, practice, when it comes to this subject. The fact is, and there is no state in which there is no policy involved in the judiciary or even in the regulated European countries. This is one transition that we all go through as a society and as an institution, and the judiciary goes through. I have to be realistic because I know this matter very well, I know what problems are, I can write a doctoral dissertation about the problems of the judiciary, and let's not expect that in society the way we live to expect the justice that we have overnight. The international community took a significant share in judicial reform, so then, what happened to us, experienced judges with a long-standing internship and knowledge went out of the judiciary, we got younger personnel. She's right, when we watch movies, you see that you watch the English judiciary, you see gray heads with wigs, which you saw under 50 or 60 years old. So that requires first one moral satisfaction, you give a man a chance to solve a man's fate to give him 20, 30, or I don't know 40 years in prison. It's a responsible job and moral people should do it. So that you don't stall on this subject, I personally don't think that we're going to have anything better next year. Not because many people in the judiciary don't want to and won't, but I think we all need to give ourselves the importance of justice, because it's at the end of every society's skeleton and 34 of our own, it's up to each country to be the highest home, and then ask, and when we make that contribution, to seek maximum responsibility in that field. Here you have in the press today, before this session I've been through a little bit and it's even coming out, how true it is,... supposedly how foreigners pay our judges and we don't even know it. Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't think I've really said much, but I think this is a complex subject that needs to be given serious meaning and I don't think that these are high wages to judges. The other day I had a case where a nurse in Switzerland, who works 80% working hours with a small child, has 6,700 francs salary, and the husband of a protégé in school has 4,800 francs, you know. We're not even a poor country, we're just not a well-organized state, we have a lot of potential and human potential here, we have potential and natural, we just need to sit down and arrange this society and leave behind for generations a better and better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4980	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, thank you for your fine discussion, my replica is your claim that doctors should not discuss this and that you were horrified when you watched Alternative TV, you listened to a doctor talking about the judiciary. During the elections, i.e. the election law is not regulated which structure, which educational structure must be in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and where it is fortunate that the Electoral Law has strictly regulated who can and cannot, because unfortunately people with primary school can enter the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, you know. You have a couple of fellow doctors here who have enough intelligence to have 16 or 18 years of high school education like here, I'm not going to talk about my own, but here's a colleague who has so many educations. So this means that we have a minimum intelligence that is needed to analyse a report like this, and this is about a report that is repeated year after year. And if you are a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for years and you are constantly reading the same report, it is clear that if not your IQ allows you the possibility to analyse and misjudge a bad report. As for the salary and the company of Switzerland and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I remind you that this is Bosnia and Herzegovina and I say that the salary of a doctor who has 16 or 18 years of higher education is 1,300 Marks, and the salary of a judge is much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4982	A gentleman, the second deputy chairman, Mladen Bosić, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4983	Well, I'm done with electrotech, but I think I can say something about this, and I think we have the right here to talk about both the health system and the justice system, first of all we're users of the health system, and hopefully we're as few as 35 users of the justice system. Therefore, we certainly have the right as parliamentarians and therefore have the immunity to discuss all this. Normally, with a different level of knowledge of certain topics, and I understand both Mrs. Kapetanović and Mr. Krčmar, in a way to defend their own army, to defend healthcare professionals, to defend Mr. Krčmar defends the workers in the judiciary. And that's okay, that's some rule that we all act collegiately. But the essence of this whole story here has changed from the report to the assessment of the judiciary in general. And I believe that a wide topic should be opened about this, that this topic should indeed be thoroughly addressed, because it is one of the most important segments of society. And in this division of executive, legislative and judicial power in normal democracies, there is something called control of each other, that each segment of that society has some effect on this other to stick to each other in some kind of control, not to be ripped off as a body floating outside the system. I would like to comment on the situation regarding the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I really think that the judiciary is a problem here, not by the guilt of the judges, not by the prosecutors, not by the guilt of lawyers, this is the problem of the justice system. We will find it difficult to get out of this problem because we have somehow received this system on the assumption that the judiciary will remain politically independent, that is, beyond the influence of politics on their decisions, and we have not received it. So, the judiciary is under the influence of politics, that doesn't have any dilemma. So, Mr. Tegeltija, I respect your function, first of all, I want to congratulate you for coming here unlike your predecessor who didn't want to appear here, for showing willingness to engage in dialogue and debate, but not to lie, the office in the judiciary is chosen largely under political influence, and that's the case with the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. And this should be taken into account, and, above all, a serious debate on judicial reform needs to be started. Many serious people, which are from the profession, believe that this system of one body that covers both prosecutors and judges is not a good system, many people believe that lawyers within the High Court and Prosecutorial Council are not impartial because they may have a conflict of interest in making their own decisions. And what convinced me that the judiciary is in some way and politically corrupt is the famous case of Branislav Garić, the murder of Branislav Garić, when we got the verdict to release the killer, no matter what the reason, when not one institution, nor the High Court and Prosecutorial Council have we been given any explanation of why it is so. Therefore, the judicial system as a whole, including the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, should be well considered. We will certainly not succeed under this agenda point, and we will see whether there is political will and political conditions to open a truly wider political debate to get to a minimum of consensus how to make something better than what we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4984	Thank you very much. We, respected colleagues and colleagues will be working until 12:50 p.m., then we'll take a break until 2:00 p.m. The college has an international obligation at 1:00, and that time will be used to take a lunch break, so you know what the work plan is. So we still have about 15 minutes to work in this part of the session. The word, i.e. the replica, has Mr. Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4985	Dear Chairman, I want to apologize to my colleague. I had no intention of saying that doctors shouldn't participate, not only when it comes to the judiciary, so on every subject, just 36 maybe I didn't express myself properly, but I think it was more competent that people from the profession, so when that topic was, that they were essentially talking about it. So far from that, I also appreciate what a completely co-worker said, I think they're paying a doctor, especially the people of surgeons who save people's lives every day, not that they're small, but they're too small, and in this segment, I agree with her in every way. So, it wasn't at all my intention to say that people don't need to, so here I am, sorry if I'm misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4986	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4987	I thank the chairman. Also, since it is my first participation in the debate, I would like to welcome all my fellow Members and wish a great deal of happiness and success in the work during this House of Representatives' term. When it comes to the specific agenda, the Alliance for a Better Future Club will support the VSTV Report, and I should say that we are in the SBB, particularly in the heat of a fellow SDA attack on judicial authority and judges. In particular, we are particularly surprised by the potential of the issue of allegedly political appointments of judges of constitutional courts, especially when it is potential by the very SDA, i.e. specifically Dr. Kapetanović. In fact, look at the BiH Constitutional Court, I am fully aware that this is a different procedure for the appointment of judges in that court, but the principle is the same. Currently, two judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH are not only former and active, as many highly-ranked members of the SDA, but have sat in these same benches that we are sitting in, and were then elected by the SDA and SDP votes in the Federation Parliament in the BiH Constitutional Court. I'm not sure, but I think that's exactly what my colleague Kapetanović voted for for one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4988	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović and after that we will take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4989	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, not wanting to get into the overall work because that's something that's for grading the period when I wasn't sitting in these benches, I'm just going to try to give a little bit of... since in the overall system that we have, and in accordance with the arrangement we have, we have a system in accordance with the arrangement, it's what it is. I will refer first to the Constitution and the first member of our Constitution and at the end of it says – this Convention is above all laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what it says. It's the Convention on Human Rights. And I'm going to try, since I really appreciate my colleague Damir, just to point out some things that we here as agents need to know, and you as High Court and Prosecutorial Council, of course I don't know whether you were or weren't then, not only that you didn't react, but there's been a promotion of judges who have conducted such a procedure and today they're in a state court of law. A series of robberies took place where the total property heist was about 3.5 million KM. Those who did this were 37 arrested, captured, detained. After a month released, proceedings are under way. So it was undisputedly found that they were robbing, undisputedly found that they were alienated, with them found. In addition, they found forged passports from Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and, plus, Bosnian-Herzegovic passports, forged passports, among them. The proceedings are ongoing, the parties are being called. After they've been released, those who have been arrested don't respond to calls, and it always says they can't find them in this country, on calls. In the past, it comes from the judge's decision, the solution, as you call it, the damaged parties and says the procedure is completely over. All deposited goods, money, gold, valuables, etc., returns to the accused thieves, according to the court's ruling. You had it on Al Jazeer, all the TVs showed it, coming back to the thieves. Legal instruction to the damaged, he says – if you think you are damaged, we refer you to a civil case. It's very interesting how those who did it, robbed, stole, got that decision, and first arrived at the Depot Mup to take over, because they were meant for stolen goods. If they hadn't been reported damaged by the MUP by accident, he would have taken it away. Look, I was talking about very precise numbers. I don't speak cobwebs here. I know what case this is. I know who's damaged by name and last name. I know who the judges are. I know who the judge who signed this. I told you it's now in state, and even though the High Court and Prosecutor's Council went to play on such a decision, it's gone. But it's a civil case. Now look -- there's cash opening in court where it's been deposited, there's no more money, they say evaporated. So the money that was stolen isn't in the registers. It is recommended to the damaged not to go deep because you know these judges are now in a state court. Mr. Tegeltija, see if I'm telling the truth, ask around. Another example, people are being accused, okay, the prosecution can do its thing, and you have what's called a reasonable deadline. Look how you avoid that reasonable deadline. The one who initiated such a procedure has become immediately the prosecutor of the State's Attorney's Office. In that case, a new one is coming. Let's go to Jovo for a new one, all from the beginning. And so for 10 years. In the end, it turns out that this political case is insinuated and people get rid of it. For five years now, they won't pass the verdict, now that the defendants have sued the state, because their careers, their destroyed families, their children are mentally ill, but they're really sick. Now the courts won't judge what the state has done to them. To get back to old age. Do you know that's happening? If you don't know, ask around. Your obligation isn't just to take performances, these are very specific cases. And this is what I can do to you right now, so my colleague in front of me, a respected lawyer, I say that since you mentioned engineers, sometimes they have a right to talk about something, because we are consumers, so as consumers, we have on our shoulders what happens in the judicial authorities. That the judiciary has to be independent of showing just this. All major affairs, where Miss Pandurević spoke again, are slowly falling because they are political. Nowhere goes into real, real alienation, real robbery, real destruction, but to cover up what's really going on, they insinuate, even media support, and then muddle and destroy families. That's the problem. Because you have to explain as president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council how before he finds out who's being investigated or who he's going to be, they know adequate, again under alleged signs, or those who are politically bound, media houses, that someone's being led against something. Tell me, where'd they get the information, if not the one they're up against, he has no idea? How do media houses know that in advance? You have to answer that. Here's the final case of the Lipovača. It doesn't matter if he's guilty, he's not guilty, I'm not going to bring the court, but explain to me how at the door of Lipovača the moment the SIPA comes to search the four television houses. Tell me that, how? What if he's freed? Who's going to answer for that insolence? Someone's got to tell us. Or we made the justice of a holy cow. Whoever was in India, I'm under the circumstances, you can't cross the street while the cow crosses, in certain parts. If we've made a holy cow out of justice, that we 38 know it, then we'll also make the gods we'll go to. We need to have access, we need to talk openly to get what we want, and we want it independently. Because it's not independent, and it's without any dilemma, because it's just, it's very interesting, that under pressure those who view themselves as powerful political, forget people that it's one wheel and it's spinning and that very quickly you come, you're a little bit worse down.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4990	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4991	I'm following the weather up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4992	I'm following. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4993	That it is a wheel or a synosoid and that those who think that they are untouchable are eternal and that they can manage lives can very quickly reach that lower limit of sinosoids, regardless of their maximum, because they must occur and fall. There's also a biological downturn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4994	Thank you. We'll continue at 2:00, break by 2:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, we have working conditions, we continue to work. Representative jasmin Emrić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4996	First of all, I am expressing my declareative and real support for the vision of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council on the establishment of a judicial system that operates on the principles of efficiency, quality, accountability and independence and which is available to all citizens. We are all aware that this vision cannot be achieved within short periods of time, and I therefore believe that this is a permanent task to be done by a wider social community and all the structures of our society. As the public is often focused on the discussion and assessment of the independence of judicial authorities and institutions, and given today's quality debate in this House, I would like to refer to the section of the recommendation of this Report, paragraph 1.4. Independence. I support these recommendations from the legislative and executive authorities with the aim of unitary funding of courts and prosecutors, as well as strengthening the role of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the process of preparing, adopting and implementing the budget, with the fact that I am not sure whether the existing legislative framework allows the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to be also a formal draft of the 39 judicial institutions budget. What I think is missing from these recommendations is that there is no threat of political influence and abuse, and of which the interested public, we are all witnesses, very much discussing, and therefore I think it is necessary to add a policy that reads: - That political parties and their representatives refrain from having a direct and crucial influence in the process of appointing all holders of judicial functions. I propose that guidance as a conclusion to this House for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4997	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4998	A colleague called Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u4999	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honored guests. I have so far talked many times about the role of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH as a key body which is actually a regulator for the principle of independence of the judicial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is still an extremely important body, that so far the reform of the judiciary has produced significant results, but also that certain problems have been identified and that these problems should be addressed. That's why I called here today for my word. We will also be addressed by the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and I would ask him first to tell us something that we have not had much to hear so far, and these are judicial and prosecutorial norms, simply stated, or this criteria for working as they are realised, whether they are realised when it comes to the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office and all courts of course entity, supreme courts, prosecutors, districtal, or cantonal courts, municipal and basic courts as they are already called in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So without it, I don't think we have anything to say about judicial reform if, therefore, we are in a position not to meet these fundamental criteria. I know sometimes when I was doing this job that it was known to turn away from pay when the norm was not fulfilled, it was known exactly how many criminal cases had to be done, how many of these litigation cases had to be done. If you don't make it a done deal, you won't get the pay you're prescribed. But there was something, and when that norm is transferred, you're some variable parts, and I'd like to do it today, I haven't listened to that subject for a long time, to hear what the High Court and Prosecutor's Council did when it comes to these standards. But I didn't just answer for it or just because of this, the key thing I took is to talk about the political atmosphere in one society, the relationship of top officials to the system of judicial authority and the principle of independence of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no system, no judicial, no legislative, no executive, no system that can function in a poisoned political atmosphere in the best possible way, and no system that is not affected by this atmosphere. Every judicial system in the world is influenced by, therefore, the constitution, influenced by laws and influenced by a political atmosphere that is being practiced, created, established by politicians in these countries and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is an obligation for us who deal with politics to take great care of what we say and how we will apply to segments of society whose establishment we create the laws we make. If the senior officials of this country go out for a pay phone and say, or in front of a microphone, that they will not be tried by judges just because they belong to a nation or some religion, if, when criminal charges are filed against those officials by a police abuse agency, they say – you will not judge me 40, I will abolish you. And then mechanisms are launched, even here in the BiH Parliament, to do so, then it is a serious problem and a serious signal to ask ourselves whether this has an impact on the independence of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is a message, therefore, to us top officials, and we are top officials dealing with politics and creating laws in this country. I think our reform of the judicial system has stalled and may be headed in a direction that should not go the moment that this situation occurred. And that's what's particularly worrying to me. So it was decided that the object wasn't on state level, so then the object went to the entity level, so now we don't know where it is, we don't know what it is. Don't let anyone think that one day they won't look at what they did, so the time will come in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. Everyone must be aware of that. And it is in the greatest interest of all, even those who have made such statements, to help the system determine the truth, to establish the facts, and to apply justice on that basis. And today, so I just got up, so here to tell the people of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the common system of judicial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina that as long as they can in such situations rise above the situation and strictly apply only what they have to apply, these are the constitutions and international law. It is the only way to reach a system of independent, professional and responsible judicial authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council has a key role to play here. Everywhere in the world it is an independent regulator, we make it in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. And we'll make it so that no one doubts it, even those who think it's all supposed to collapse together, it won't collapse. Some provisions should be amended in the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council which failed to pass the test of time, but I said this is a good reform that we now need to process. And I've only stayed to encourage people to do their job solely on the basis of the constitution, the law, international acts and the facts of the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5000	Thank you, colleague Džaferović. Given that... registered for discussion on this agenda point, here I would give my word, if of course he wishes, to the president of VSTV, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5001	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Representatives. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you first of all on behalf of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and on my personal behalf. I was here to prepare some speech that should present the 2013 Report, but after all these discussions that have already been held today, it's pretty deplaced that I start from the beginning, so I'll concentrate to give some answers and look back at some of the discussions I heard today, and the written 2013 Report you received through the materials, so there's no need to explain anything in particular. To begin with, I will agree with the observations relating to the timing of the review in general of this Report, which are... given and I can indeed agree that today is completely absurd to discuss the 2013 Report when we have already finished 2014, we have some results in 2014 and what we started in 2014 we ended up in most parts. Why is it that I can't get in, I haven't been, I'm, for those who don't know, I've been president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council since the 8th of July last year, what was going on before I don't know, but I know that the report was completed for 2013 within the deadline laid down by law, and the deadline is May 1st means next year. It was completed and published 41 at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council site at the time. I know that there was a problem in the printing of the material of the annual report that emerged from the Public Procurement Act, because the procedure was not implemented, so I guess that was the reason why it was only since September that report in Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, and here today only for consideration. I believe that such a practice will not happen in the future because reports should be discussed when they are current. I'll start with the very structure of a report that also had some objections. The structure of the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council will be as long as the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is as it is, and as long as the powers of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council are as they are. The primary jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Board is the appointment of judges and prosecutors, that is his primary authority to which he... 80% of all his activities. This activity provides, in principle, the maintenance of the principles of an independent, transparent, responsible judiciary, i.e. in this case and the prosecution. When I talk about appointments, since one part of the remarks, one part of the debate talked about the fact that the judiciary is not independent, I will not be that, is that the reform failed, that reform should be done etc., reform can always be done because there are always unfinished things, there are always things that may have gone wrong. I'm not gonna be an apologist and say that everything is perfect, everything is perfect and everything is good, but I also can't accept an unfounded criticism that starts with everything being bad. So, a judicial system like any other system has been in reform since 2003, a large number of achievements in all segments covering judicial reform, starting with independence, transparency and efficiency. So if we were to go back to 2003 where we started, and look where we are today, you'd see how much there are, how many differences there are in all these areas today. But of course it was, it was a long time ago when the reform began, and then the situation became quite forgotten. What I want to remind Parliament is that, this Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly has its representative in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council as one member. The Council of Ministers also has its representative in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council as a member, who have the equal right to participate in all discussions and to vote on all issues on the agendas of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Parliament's interference with the Council of Ministers has therefore been incorporated into existing regulations and is being achieved in the real and active life of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Perhaps sometimes it would be good for this Parliament to call on its own, those that it has delegated to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and to discuss with him what his ambitions are, what his wishes are, and how these representatives should delegate Parliament's views when they are members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is also true of the Council of Ministers. I don't think so far, it hasn't been done, and here's this mechanism, Parliament has, I say, its representative. When you talk about whether the reform has achieved some results, what is the judicial system as a whole, that it is, some will deal with a great deal of criticism and say nothing is right, but I urge you to read the latest EU Progress Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina and you will see that in the Generally, Extremely Bad Report, Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary is highlighted as the only point of light, of course with certain suggestions that should move forward, where the number of results that have already been achieved, and in this very report that the EU has made on the progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina on its way to the EU. So this criticism that justice is that part of society that's bad I don't think absolutely stands. When it comes to choices and appointments, I must say that as our primary competences relating to the election and appointments, we are already in 2013, and in this 42 year we ended up, in 2014, we are already actively working on a fully objective procedure of elections and appointments of judges and prosecutors. We have introduced written tests that are completely objective with predetermined questions and for structured so-called. adopted interviews. For those people who enter the judiciary for the first time, 80% of their assessment depends on the written test, and for those who progress from their work scores, while only 20% of their evaluations affecting the choice and appointment affecting that interview, which is again structured and the same for all candidates. And these questions that are in these tests were chosen by computer, very accidentally, cannot be reached in a way that someone knows in advance what questions they will have on these tests. So we are making significant efforts to reduce, as far as possible, the proportion of human factors in the selection and appointment process and to objectiveize it to the extent possible. The fact that the items I've heard are piling up, I also don't think it's responding to the real state, because if we remove the municipal objects, they don't pile up, they don't shrink every year. If we talk about non-communal cases, those that do not mean communal, I will issue the information that in the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently unresolved as much as an eight-month inflow of the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary. Which means we receive more annual items than we have left behind. Of course, the character and nature of the judicial, or prosecutorial work is such that it implies procedures that are often long-term because they depend, because they involve first-degreeness, second-degreeness and ultimately third-degree procedure expressed through audits. ...the results are often dry, but they are who they are and they can't be proven otherwise. We at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council cannot deal with individual cases. I can understand the remarks that any of you are making, and I heard Mr. Backović talking about a single case, I don't know what's going on, but I also know what I'm talking about as the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council or anyone at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council can't discuss whether any judge or prosecutor has made a mistake in a particular case. That's not what, that's not what we do. We are dealing with systemic issues, and I said that the primary part of our jurisdiction concerns elections and appointments. When it comes to norms, which the chairman Džaferović spoke about, what I can say for them, is that in the last year, or two days, we have dealt with these norms explicitly, and we have greatly strengthened them, increased them in all their segments, so we already have requirements from the judicial community for reducing them because people in some regular working time and even outside of working hours can hardly achieve them. However, through reports you can look at, you can see that we have a standard. Mostly we have a standard that exceeds 100%, is it, from what people are paid for. This concept, the concept of norm, is such that it was created on the basis of quantitative indicators in terms of weight, given the weight of the object. So it's not a classic... standard that measures time, but it's not equal to all objects, so that one object can have a greater value and share in the norm of one judge than it can... five other objects. When it comes to a general perception of how the judiciary does it and whether it's independent, I have to say, without any environment, that the judiciary is an independent system. I can allow them to respect the fact that in the judiciary, both in courts and in the prosecutions, people do, that they can be sinful, they can be sinful in any segment of life. They can be, to enter both crimes and violations, and they can also enter some political combinations in any way, but then it would represent individual faults, or individual errors of these individual holders of judicial functions, which would then, if proven to be quite certainly disciplinary offences and represent the subject of prosecution in the disciplinary procedure. But the system as a system as set up provides for the independence of the judicial system. 43 When I talk about independence, I must say that the Constitution of BiH assumes and foresees the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial so that both because of this and in this way this report is presented to the legislative authority in a way that is presented to it for information rather than for adoption. This concept actually follows the concept of power-sharing. I fully agree with the fact that all the authorities in the system of division control each other in a different and indirect way. Here, I said that both the legislative and executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina has a control mechanism, has a interference in the judicial system and in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council on the way of their elected delegates, is whether, who are members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, participate equally in the discussions and cast an equal vote on all issues. Some choice of judges of constitutional courts was mentioned here. I must say, when constitutional courts are concerned that the election and appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court is not a co-operation of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, we do not elect judges of constitutional courts in entities or at the state level. What is done in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is to propose a list of candidates to be delivered to the authorities responsible for appointments. It is, we are one of the steps that every candidate must pass in the appointment procedure, but we are not the ones who make the final decision on who will be proposed and who will be elected as one of the functions in the constitutional court. I fully agree that the debate on the situation in the judiciary, as Vice-President Bosić said, deserves a serious debate and I am too prepared to discuss any segment of the judicial system with the capacity of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council at any time and in any way. And I think that story is open and really open through structural dialogue, and we do have some indetermination in the judicial system, and when it comes to the BiH Court and when it comes to jurisdiction, etc. Here, it was about the appeal that in one court there were both decisions in the first degree and decisions in the second degree. That's true, we have one court to decide in two degrees. However, I have to say no matter what we do in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and that the general view of the structural dialogue is that this part must be changed by the establishment of a new court of appeal which would decide on appeals for decisions of the first-degree court, regardless of which I must say that there are such areas in the world indeed, because these are facts. Here, even the Hague court that decides on the same crimes the BiH Court decides in the same court and tribunal on, both in the appeals and in the first-degree proceedings. I'm not saying it's a practice to follow, but I'm saying it exists, it's something that exists, and it's quite certain that this structural dialogue that is really considering all issues that are problematic for the judicial system has covered a wide range of issues and that it has been waiting for authorities to be established at both the state and entity level, that even the results of the elections have been awaited both at the entity and at the state level in order to have in this structural dialogue conversators who can make changes when changes are agreed in the structural dialogue. I don't want to respond here to the findings of a personal nature, as Mrs. Pandurević said, because here is not a topic, I'm not the subject of my appointment as president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council,...some helicopters that took off from the government building. I mean here, and that's said, it's said in Parliament, so I have to look back on that, I think it's one of the lies, some sort of gossip you've heard, that you repeat multiple times like you said the fist of impact, etc. I didn't look back on it on purpose because you said that about the paper, but here you said it in Parliament, so I have to say it's a lie. Unfortunately, and I'm very sorry to hear it in Parliament... But I won't deal with myself, I didn't come here to deal with myself and to deal with these questions, I'm here ready to answer any other questions. I'm very sorry if I forgot to answer something you mentioned, there was really a lot of what 44 said. But in principle, I have to say that if any question touches any individual cases in the judiciary, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council can't deal with it, it's not his job. I have to tell you, we're law enforcement. This Parliament makes laws, you're the ones who need to edit the system in the way you think he can... better results. We are here to participate actively in this dialogue and to propose how it should be done. And we have done so, we have submitted our proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, this proposal was supported by the Venice Commission and I must say that the Ministry of Justice has deviated from our proposal and has come up with a whole new concept and a new Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which, by the way, implies a complete confiscation of the authority of this body. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5002	Thank you very much. We've allowed a little longer since it's the first time we've heard it, so it's 10 minutes for the guests who file the report as well as for the MPs, but here it is. I'm closing the argument, so no one's answered the word again. Let's move on with the agenda. Next item is point eight, Ad. 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Centre for the Development of Finance (CEF) Therefore, the competent Commission for Foreign Affairs has proposed that a special debate be held on this point, as it gave a negative opinion on granting consent to ratification. We have to now, nothing, it's point eight, so now I'm opening a debate, it's a special point. Who wants to talk? I conclude, therefore, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5004	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5005	All right, let's go to the nineth agenda. Before we cross...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5006	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5007	Mr. Đonlagić asked for a word about point 8. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5008	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you, the College of the House, as all present, ladies and gentlemen and guests of course in this room. 45 Well, you know, I just can't let it get past this without anyone discussing anything about this, given that it's one enough thing to say to a challenging document. We had this debate on the Foreign Affairs Committee and here's the conclusion and what we suggested to the House. So we in the Commission were not convinced, or those who came as invited to the Commission to explain one such document, which is representatives of the Ministry of Finance, or representatives of the Central Bank, did not convince us of the necessity and purpose of signing one such document, which was relatively or quite generally given everything that should be done and which are the benefits that Bosnia and Herzegovina can have from one such agreement. I am aware of the fact that this is an international institute and that we are not able to change the content of such a document in negotiations, and since we are joining an institution that already exists. But if, please, but if from 32 members of one such document you have 14 members who speak about immunity which includes even family members of those who fall under the terms of these points from, it seems to me from 12th to 26th, and that we very speculatively have estimates of what we would have had if we accepted a document like this by which, let's say, we get two board members where instead of just educational manifestations, which were present so far in terms of training of members of the Central Bank or some other financial institutions, we could possibly have a more direct impact on some of the jobs that we could, yes, or projects that could be made that way and get. Since we didn't get the impression from all of this, and here it is now again I'm saying that neither I, nor the SBB Club, have the impression that one of these documents would be well accepted, or that we would have enough reason to propose it for signing, the SBB Club will be restrained when declaring such a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5009	Thank you very much. Since he's gone, Mr. Damir Arnaut has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5010	I thank the chairman. And also taking into account that the Commission for Foreign Affairs has tasked the House to discuss this issue a little bit oddly, but this, I will not problem it already more with Minister Nikola Špirić's letter, which says, among other things, that, apart from the privileges in the host country, which Slovenia in this case, the abovementioned persons have immunity in the territory of the CEF member states, which would become Bosnia and Herzegovina's ratification of the Agreement. However, Article 20(2) of this Agreement states – Privileges... staff under Article 1 of this Article shall not apply to a CEF member whose nationality he is, or..., which is an established diplomatic practice that immunity is not enjoyed in his country but only in other countries. Now I do not understand why Minister Špirić wrote this, and I think that, above all, considering that he is the finance minister, it would be particularly useful to get the official position of the foreign ministry on the type and nature of immunity that the CEF staff would enjoy both outside Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory and so on on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, which is of paramount importance. Because what Nikola Špirić writes in her letter is really unacceptable. On the other hand, we have Article 20(2), which speaks of one established diplomatic practice, that a person has immunity outside but is not in his own country and this letter does not agree with this Agreement. That's why the only reference ministry that can answer this question is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I'm really surprised that we don't have a position, an official position of at least the Foreign Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5011	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5012	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5013	She gave up. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the ninth point. Before we move to the ninth point, I suggest that the House declares itself that the debate on points 9 to 19 of the agenda is united, because it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of materials, so I urge you to vote. Who's in favor of uniting the debate? Vote now. So, with 24 votes against, one against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have united the debate from point 9 through 19. Ad. Nine. - Ad. 19 Giving consent to ratification of agreements and agreements I'm opening a debate all over the agenda. Who wants to talk? If nobody, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5015	I thank the chairman. So, just now, this story is about this previous point eight. Agreements... deny at the beginning what I meant to say. Namely, when we, both at the last session and at this one, are uniting the points, discussing agreements for ratification of international agreements, then it is united and talking and discussing and it seems to me one expressed satisfaction with the work of the institutions of this country that have prepared these documents to come here before us to support it. However, if we were to compare it now to the previous session of this Parliament when we did not trust our institutions of power when, for example, it was a point of the agenda – a resolution on this area of Sutorina, so we did not trust our bodies that we had formed ourselves, which we had chosen, but here we will even have a public debate on it. That's why I, Mr. Chairman, won't be much longer at the moment, so I won't even... this point, but I'd be free to suggest one conclusion because of agents who are in a position like this. I, when I was talking about one item of the agenda that didn't meet with this many times, that when it comes to, therefore, the points of the agenda are related to international agreements, and 47 refer to financial responsibilities or credit, so today I will certainly support all of this, because I have no objections special to any of them, but that for the next session at which there will be similar agreements relating to financial responsibilities, this, therefore, I propose one conclusion, so here if gentlemen MPs are willing to support such a thing, if at least for the sake of the representatives who are new in this function. The conclusion would read about this: - The proposaler, i.e. the Council of Ministers of Confirmation of International Agreements, relates to financial responsibilities on any basis, to provide the following information to representatives until the next session at which similar proposals will be discussed: 1. What are the obligations – consequences for the state after these agreements confirm and enable them to be implemented with special emphasis on not implementing by domestic authorities? 2. The number, so we're looking for, the number of agreements so far confirmed that are still in place or will be implemented. 3. Total amount of money ratified through those agreements. So, I would suggest such a single conclusion and it seems to me that if nothing more calmed my conscience would raise my hands if I had this kind of information given what I said. Here, I hope your colleagues will understand this proposal as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5016	So, the word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go. You deliver the conclusion to us that it's divided into benches here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5017	Just one question for a respected colleague, Lovrinović. In accordance with Article 77. What does the Rules of Procedure have to do with these points of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5018	Okay, you don't have to answer every question, uh, I mean, you can ask a question. Here comes Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5019	No, no, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5020	Okay, well, whatever you want, I don't care. Okay, thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Now we're closing the debate. When are we going to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5021	If he can do it right now, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5022	He can't... 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5023	A minute, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5024	Now, five minutes, don't get out of the O.R., five minutes to have a little club consult before the vote, come on. Stay in the O.R. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5027	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-29-1.u5028	Okay, on the proposal of the vice-president, Mr. Bosić, we repeat the vote. Please listen, item 5 is the agenda. We vote on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2013 – the BiH Presidency's material. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion contained in the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Would you like me to read to you what the Commission wrote? You don't have to. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, 16 against, 2 abstentions. This is not, therefore, adopted. We're going to point six. – Report on the financial audit of the 2013 Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion contained in the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Should I read you a conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour of, 2 against, 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we adopted the Financial Audit Report with the conclusion contained in the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. 50 Let's go to 7. – Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2013. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads – that political parties and their representatives refrain from having direct or earlier influence in the process of appointing all judicial officials. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 21 votes for, 4 against, 4 abstentions, there is not enough entity majority from the RS entity, so this is not adopted. Round two. Is it a statement now or is it a later? Later, okay. It's an ex post adjustment, actually. So shall we vote now on receiving this report? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. There is not enough entity majority from the RS entity. So this in the first round wasn't accepted. Get back to work later. Okay. We're going to point 8. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Centre for the Development of Finance (CEF). We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. The Commission gave a negative opinion. We're voting on the agreement now, not the Commission's opinion, right? So we vote, not like the law when you have a vote, but we vote on the Sporaum. Prepare to vote. Vote now. None of this has anything to do with, uh, 13 against, 16 abstentions. This is so fucked up, this has nothing to do with it. Let's move on, I apologize for, uh, a little inconclusiveness, but that's the situation. I've never seen this one zero votes for. Let's go, so we're voting on points 9 to 19. – We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Nikola Lovrinović, concerning points 9 to 19. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 20 votes to, 10 against and 6 abstentions, with an insufficient entity majority from the RS, this conclusion goes to a consensus. Shall we do it now or later? Later, okay. The consensus on the conclusion is later. I am now putting forward proposals to declare on points 9 to 19 in the package. So get ready to vote. Vote now. _________(?) 51 [[no microphone turned on]] There's no business when the vote is in progress. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
