ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u606	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you and open the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House, and representatives of the media. Representatives of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, the Management Board and the BHRT Management Board, the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency and the Human Rights Institution, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session, are also invited. Here, once again, I warmly welcome all present. Today's session is attended by 14 envoys, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. The envoy, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, is not able to be present at today's session. As indicated in the call for a session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to the 7th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking questions in the oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure were sent by the envoy: Mario Karamatić for the BiH Minister of Security, Mr Dragan Mektić; representative Sredoje Nović, therefore, for the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Minister of Security also, BiH, Dragan Mektić; envoy Martin Raguž for the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mrs Semiha Borovac. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of this announcement were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, in accordance with Article 155(1). The Rules of Procedure of our House. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. 2 I give the emissary Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u607	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Council of Ministers Chairman, deputy, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question concerns, in February of last year, we had a situation where the justified social rebellion of dissatisfied workers grew in an attempt to bring down the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina into violent demonstrations, into the burning of institutions. Now imagine that workers who haven't, I don't know, received 54 months' salary suddenly insisting on canceling the canton. So these were politically conducted demonstrations that, fortunately, failed to achieve their goal. For months now, we have been able to read in the media how hot political autumn is expected and how violent demonstrations are announced again. Now the media is writing in one way or another, and we know that if it was on television, on the radio, in the paper, it doesn't necessarily have to be a statement, the truth, but when you get a statement from a senior official, a member of the Council of Ministers, and he's extremely focused on the topic and he announces an attempt to strike a coup in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I couldn't help asking a question from the Ministry of Security. Let me get this straight. On 26.06.2015, in all media outlets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was announced that 16 fighting armored vehicles were assigned to the RS MUP, which is SIPA, which is to the Federal Police Authority. The same day, Deputy Defence Minister Emir Suljagić, declares, quotes – after consulting a number of people retired and active generals and police officers, I have no doubt that entity authorities are preparing to deal with the people. I am interested in whether the Ministry of Security, as responsible for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Deputy Minister, has consulted on how he will find out that there will be a need to deal with the people, who are retired and active generals and police officers who have confirmed that there will be a fight with the people, is this about an announcement of a coup or a military coup? Note, fighting armored vehicles are otherwise used to combat terrorism, Bosnia and Herzegovina with this has a real problem and police administrations, the protection of objects, we also have a problem with this problem, and the prevention of riots. This is a classic announcement of a riot, and here I would like to get an answer to the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u608	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I assume the Deputy Minister of Security will respond, Mr. Krešić. Here you go, Mr. Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u609	Good afternoon, everyone. The Honorable President, the Vice President, the Honorable Representatives. We got this question and it was, in fact, inaccurate. So the issue was about preventing a coup and protecting the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so we had no clarification as to what it relates. Today, when we have a more detailed explanation, so today I am not in a position to give a concrete answer, but here is the explanation that we have today and that we have what exactly and accurately refers to the question we will save the answer in writing and we can also give an oral answer to this question at the next session of the House of Nations. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u610	Thank you, Mr. Krešić. Mr. Karamatić, please. Are you satisfied with what Mr Krešić said?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u611	Well, I'm happy with the answer, so we'll get a written answer to this question of mine. Now that I'm here, I have one question for the College members, very briefly. So, in accordance with Article 154. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, we envoys' questions in writing can be asked by the Office of the High Representative of BiH, i.e. Mr. Valentin Inck. I would quote the definition of sovereignty – sovereignty is the full authority of the state or people on their own territory, and independence of such a government in relation to any foreign or foreign government. Since the Rules of Procedure are foreseen, meaning in oral form that we can ask questions to ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, means the highest executive officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am interested in the possibility of bringing his Excellency, Mr Valentin Inck, here to ask him oral questions. I would personally have asked him two three roars about certain things or, in accordance with this definition of sovereignty, we as the highest legislative authority should as beloved high school students send him a writer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u612	Here, from the Secretary of the House, paragraph 3, just to read, Article 154 that the delegation issues in writing can also be asked by the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I give my word to Ambassador Sredoje Nović. Mr. Nović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u613	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Here, it's the fifth day since the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina hit, I'd say, an event that, I'm sure, took Bosnia and Herzegovina a few steps back. It was not an ordinary event, but an event that happened in Srebrenica, instead of giving away the pate to the victims and families of all those who lost their loved ones, something happened that didn't happen in the war itself, that the president of a neighbouring country would be lynched and almost, fortunately, that he didn't experience more serious consequences. So, to this day, we have no delegates, not one single piece of information about what really happened and how it happened, who's responsible for this situation, and why is that, indeed, whose failure to do so? We are fortunate only to have the circumstances in this country that we have had these means of public information so we can give them thanks for knowing in Bosnia and Herzegovina today about this event, so it would be good to at least take a good part of these respected journalists and put them where they belong to those who do not belong in those structures, so that at least they inform us in detail. It is inappropriate that today is the fifth day without us even knowing what happened, even though different information tells us who had all the information. And that's why, I think it's justified because of the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I asked a question within the meaning of Article 156(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, that the Council of Ministers and Resolute Minister give today a comprehensive 4 information on events during the ceremony in Srebrenica on 11.07.2015. If it's possible that we'll wait for that information like we've been waiting for her about Zvornik, as we've been waiting for about Bugojn, then I don't think she makes any sense anymore and we're just opening deeper relations, making it worse inside Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's hard to convince me in this country that we're not deliberately stalling to get to the truth about what happened. How is it possible that the entire world's public is buzzing about it on Saturday, and that the resolution ministry, the resolution agency, and that they spend the whole night on Saturday nights agreeing on what to do, but now we're talking to each other about how the prosecution is supposed to make some kind of request. Who's really picking on who here? What's the police role here, and what's the role of the D.A.'s office? It is unacceptable that, therefore, the past Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and we all started washing our hands. We've been listening to politicians, they're clean, so we've been listening to the organization board, even cleaner, we've been listening to not individual agency leaders. And I'm afraid that Bosnia and Herzegovina will run out of soap as much as they wash their hands from that event that no one knows why and how it happened. That's why I asked today to say what is and who is responsible for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u614	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Who will respond on behalf of the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security? Mr. Krešić, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u615	So here, after these events in the Potocari Ministry of Security, the Council of Ministers, so it sat down and tasked the Ministry of Security to prepare information, detailed information about what happened. Today, we are not in a position to give comprehensive information about this event, given the complexity of everything that has happened. Of course, there is an event and will have great reflections on Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation and it is obvious that there have been errors made. We don't want to reconsider, we want to look at everything that's been done in the preparation of this insurance. So, in Potocari it was, it was one thing, so I'm talking from a security point of view, a complex security mission, and I'm afraid, that a series of gaps have been made in view of what we've had a chance to see in the media and we want to put it all on paper and, therefore, through the Council of Ministers, or to deliver it to the House of Nations for an accurate, detailed and precise information, means through preparations and events on the day itself. So today we have individual, here are individual sightings. We would not want to burden anyone with what is not, but, therefore, we would like to inform you clearly and precisely about everything that has happened, meaning, using the information that the media have given and collected and using sources, means, both intelligence and security agencies, the Coordination Directorate, the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia and all police agencies who have participated in the execution in any way, or in the conduct of insurance in Potocari. So in writing we will deliver this information and at the next session of the House of Nations we are prepared and orally present that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u616	Thank you, Mr. Krešić. Is Ambassador Nović satisfied with this response? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u617	Of course, it would be strange if a man said he was satisfied with such an answer. Then you'd really be asking yourself and others what we're doing. If happiness were not in this country, and unfortunately it will not be long, both homes of this Parliament would be sitting on Sunday or Monday and assessing from a point of view and a political and security point of view what has happened and what reflections are. It's not the case in this country, and then I have nothing more to ask, because at the end of August or September, when this House is in session, then it'll be completely irrelevant and then it won't matter if this information is more important or not. By that time many things will be settled and, I'm deeply convinced, put under the rug. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u618	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Now I give my word to Ambassador Martin Raguž. Mr. Raguž, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u619	Thank you very much. Dear participants of this House of Peoples session, I have asked a question for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, that is, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Semiha Borovac, which refers to the Ministry's assessment of the degree of implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement with open issues, priorities and assessments of the Ministry as further on the way to the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And let me give you a brief explanation. We all know that the Dayton Peace Agreement has been reached under certain conditions and conditions. One was also the fundamental right of every exiled man, whether he was displaced, whether he escaped, to return to his home, to his home. And it doesn't happen to be one of the most important, all the annexes are important, but for the future of this country, its permanent stability, this must be the most important Annex. Today we see that everyone is calling for the Dayton Peace Accords like this... mainly when it is responsible for any daily or other political assessment or activity, and in fact we, here as the most legislative body here, need to get one reliable, responsible, competent report from the relevant ministry because that is the jurisdiction, refugees are in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton Peace Agreement, to see how many of the 2 million and 200 and some thousands of people who have been exiled and displaced, more than half, the greatest exodus in recent history, has returned, how many, how many do they want to return, and what does the state do with entities and all the competent authorities to ensure that their fundamental right is achieved? That's the first thing we need to get an answer for. Of course, this is also connected with the list, and unfortunately we have no indication yet to see the relevant judgment of what these tectonic disorders have left in terms of that population configuration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's one of the sub-questions in that context. I found some data on your site, the Ministry page, when it comes to the revised strategy, says there that 350,000 housing units have been restored, it's a big step, a significant job, but it's also said that over 50,000 has not been restored even 20 years after Dejton. Is there a plan when it will be restored? Are there any priorities? What about some regions? Here's what I'm going to say, I'm not saying it's the only one, what about the Posavina region that we're going through today, burned ground. What's going on with these questions, is anything going on? Is it subjective, does a man want to come back at all, or are there blockages and obstructions? We see today that the 6 highest dignitaries religiously say that some ethnic groups are completely, or religiously, completely destroyed from certain spaces. So, what about the collective centers? We know that there was a plan and dynamics until when they needed to be shut down. What about donations? We are the largest regional donor conference, hundreds of millions of euros, to see how these funds have been spent, what is the dynamics of their spending, and whether something, here and Parliament can do to facilitate and facilitate this return process? We can see it's still security. There are still attacks on returnees in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there's a problem with schooling kids. See, every once in a while, these problems are opening up. It's not just enough to rebuild the house, to bring electricity, to the road, to see how many people are employed in the public sector in all relevant institutions. Let's see if there's a process of discrimination and a serious debate, a debate here. Here, I think those are all important questions. We have so many NGOs that are funded at the expense of this issue, to see who is funding them, what are the effects, etc. How were the donor funds spent? And here's more, not to get a round answer today, but to give support to the Ministry, the Minister and the Council of Ministers to simply return focus on this issue in coordination with the competent institutions. Today, it's modern to talk about exodus and emigration, obviously means we've all turned into simple observers and we're acting like cheerleading groups, we're looking at tectonic disorders and sequels to these processes, and we're still responsible for this Parliament and the Council of Ministers for these issues. And I think that, if nothing, if we can't get a round answer today, one announcement, which I think has been enough days and in the new Council and since you're in charge, that in some way you can be more courageous and determined to engage in a more realistic approach and that this issue is being treated, so as long as one man wants to return to this country, that process should not be completed nor Annex VII implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u620	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I give my word to the honourable minister, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go, Mrs. Borovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u621	The Honorable Chairman, respected delegates of the House of Peoples. Here, although yesterday, really before the end of the working day, we received this delegate question from the distinguished Mr. Martin Raguž, we decided to answer this question in the ministry, not asking for an additional deadline because we believe that any delay and waste of time to resolve these large issues is not in our favour and we simply wanted to compare today those problems and what we have decided as a method of working and working in the ministry in the coming period, but of course there is nothing we can do without the significant political support of this Parliament and clearly established objectives in this area. Here, therefore, allow me to give a brief answer to this question, although Mr. Raguž has made a lot of points in his explanation. Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, or as its official title is the Refugee and Displaced Persons Agreement, is certainly one of the most important annexes of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first sentence and essence of Annex VII is – all refugees and displaced persons have the right to return to their homes. Further in Annex VII, it is said – it will have the right to recover property and damages for property that cannot be returned to them, and the right to choose the place of residence. In terms of these guaranteed rights under the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, based on data provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees through 7 of its internal bases and in co-operation with the relevant entity ministries and UNHCR as the leading international organisation under the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the following results have so far been achieved. Of the 4.3 million residents listed in 1991, some 2.2 million people were estimated to have left their homes and were in refugee status or displaced persons, with about 150,000 of whom were around 600,000 displaced and 450 refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Looking through world experience, this is a good percentage, but we cannot be satisfied with this result because there is still an interest in returning and rebuilding and we are obliged to continue to implement this basic right under the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Of the 1.1 million housing units listed in the '91 census. Some 460,000 or almost half of Bosnia and Herzegovina's total housing fund were either completely destroyed or severely damaged. Some 330,000 homes have been rebuilt, with minimum respect for housing standards, which is also a good result. Unfortunately, about 130,000 housing units are still unrenewed, of which some 43,000 housing units are currently required for return purposes. From around 225,000 temporarily occupied assets to date, around 220,000 have been returned to their owners or tenants, making up the implementation rate of property laws almost 99%. According to this result, we are probably among the first to return when it comes to the refugee crisis, when it comes to property. So the return was realised as a percentage of about 50%, and the reconstruction of housing units was about 60%, and the return of property was 99%. However, when we talk about the results of a real return to pre-war addresses, the results of last year's census are expected to answer this question, as the ministry does not have accurate data. And of course, a very important question for us is how much in the shown percentage of 50% of the real return is actually a real return to the prewar place of residence, and how many people have chosen a new place of residence. On the other hand, it is least done on the compensation plan for property that cannot be returned to the refugees and displaced persons, because the strategies and regulations so far gave priority to the return and the most vulnerable groups of returnees. This is basically a set of rights, these three basic rights from Annex VII, but there are a whole series of other rights that are not directly related to Annex VII, but are derived from the Constitution of BiH, Annex VI, the Human Rights Agreement and the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons adopted by this Parliament. The main challenges and problems in the plan to ensure access to rights guaranteed by Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement are – the largest number of refugees and displaced people still cannot return because their pre-war housing units and other assets have not yet been restored or because there is no return in their return sites,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u622	Minister's time, time. Try to cut the time down a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u623	I'll be right there, the basic infrastructure, the cargo is not cleared from mines. There are still 100,000 displaced persons largely internally displaced and a large number are in 104 collective centres throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. A large number of returnees can also not return because they are faced with a difficult socio-economic situation or because they cannot already obtain rights in one entity or country that has accepted them, transferred to the return site. 8 Our next steps of the Ministry are next. Let me just say this. Since this Parliament has not considered the implementation of the Revised Strategy and the Action Plan, we have planned, above all, to establish policy in this area and further direction of activity, before this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, above all, to give one analysis of the situation in this area on the basis of which these activities would be further determined, and therefore to adopt a new Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons, because we have seen that the previous Law offered to this Parliament has been rejected. We believe that these are very important activities and we will, above all, work on the secured funds of 500 million KM, which are donors, which are credits, which are pooled funds, to implement the launch of projects concerning and return to the regional plan and return to the internal plan. And of course, a special aspect will be the password structure, the restoration of infrastructure that practically makes it impossible to return to those places where this, restored facilities are restored and, of course, to see that the fundamental rights guaranteed by these documents are realised. That is, here in the shortest, follows, therefore, the analysis that this Parliament and we, on this plan as you see, we have really much work to do and we expect and thank Mr Martin Raguž for this question, and here, I see it as a kind of help for Parliament to resolve these large issues for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u624	Thank you, Minister Borovac. Is the envoy satisfied with the offer of an answer? Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u625	I must say that I am really pleased, that there has really been one seriousness in a short time to prepare an answer to this question and I am giving up further comments now, because we have received an announcement that a report on the implementation of the Strategy will come to Parliament. And here I can only ask if it's planned almost in a month, two? I think it would be a good idea that at the 9th month here in Parliament we have that part, so that we all contribute together that these questions and announcements announced by the Ministry get an affirmation that these priorities can finally be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u626	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Now we're going to the agenda of today's session. For the 7th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 6th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Report of the College's Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Halid Genjac, proposed at the follow-up of the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the agreement of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the same text of the Customs Policy Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-135/14 of 15/09/2014).; 4. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014, issue: 01,02-28-586/15 of 20.04.2015; 5. Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH, issue: 01,02-12-729/15 of 22.05.2015; 6. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2014, the State Regulatory Agency's material for radiation and nuclear safety, No: 01,02-28-746/15 of 26.05.2015; 7. Information from the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH on the security of supply of spent fuel and the safety of radioactive waste management in the Shop, material number: 01,02-50-19-577-6/15 of 21.05.2015; 8. Information on problems in the business and functioning of BHRT, material of Bosnia and Herzegovina Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 02/2-29-509/15 of 06.04.2015; 9. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the Office of the BiH Institutions – Proposer: Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-538/15 of 09.04.2015; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on an arrangement for the implementation of the Union financial support for Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II), No: 01,02-05-2-842/15 of 29.06.2015; 11. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the implementation of the grant of assistance from the Government of Japan for the purchase of a new generation vehicle, No: 01,02-05-2-866/15 of 01.07.2015; 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the realisation of the grant of assistance to the Government of Japan for 2014, issue 01.02-05-2-867/15 of 01.07.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any changes and additions to the agenda? Mr. Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u627	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the chairmanship. I propose that we hold today a debate on the assassination attempt on Serbian Prime Minister Vukic 11/07 and that this be the point of the 2nd agenda. Reasons: I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has been sleeping too long after such an unprecedented event in Europe's recent history. I don't think anyone's even tried to give a political assessment of this, and especially to talk about political responsibility, it's different from what Mr. 10 Nović asked, because it's about political responsibility. Of course I expected to hear it from the Presidency, from the Council of Ministers, but we haven't heard unfortunately. I know the Rules of Procedure provided for the delivery of material when looking for a special item on the agenda, but Mr. Chairman, I warn you that the worst thing would be that this point would not be adopted because there is no material. It wasn't possible for one of us to deliver material when the Ministry of Security didn't have it when it wasn't delivered by the agencies that did it, but there's no time to delay the debate. If that remains in this, as Mr Krešić said, at the next session, which is the matter of the queen, I say we are making a problem for Bosnia and Herzegovina much, much bigger than is thought to be in this room, and otherwise it cannot, without the assessment of some large authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, go through this situation where we tried to execute, where someone tried to assassinate the country's prime minister. I'm ready to talk about this in the introduction, if the agenda point is adopted, it's spreading instead of material about what I know of course. That's why my proposal is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u628	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Are there any further reports on the agenda? I fully understood Mr. Radmanović. Uh, I understand, and I think we all understand the problem you're talking about, but we do have a problem right now of business nature. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u629	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u630	... I, therefore, know that, so we're all familiar with the fact that the Council of Ministers has discussed this, but we don't really have written material, and that's obviously the problem, uh, put it on the agenda today, I say, because of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u631	Here if I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u632	You got it. Mr. Tadić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, and all distinguished guests. So, since we know from the public information funds that the Council of Ministers has discussed, and here we have most of the members of the Council of Ministers, qualified, who can follow the work on that point, and since it is point 2, therefore, does not matter their obligations, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers is willing to pass on the information he has available to us, so after we at least get to know that if there are no conditions for that kind of debate that would lead to some decision on the basis of some material, so that at least the public interest in this way is satisfied, it seems to me in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in the RS, but also in the Federation of People who have chosen us here. 11 So, we are predetermined in order to possibly make some decisions because we do not have the material on which we could do so, but that does not mean that we cannot get information and thus show the public that with special responsibility we are following this situation that happened and we want to get to the bottom of the point when the time comes. Is it possible that I'm proposing this acceptable variant? Here, let's say that this is a compromise solution, of course, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers agrees, who should say, at least a few sentences about what was said at the very meeting of the Council of Ministers who, as far as I know, produced conclusions, condemning first this attack, and then some other conclusions that of course I couldn't quote here right now, and I don't want to paraphrase it because it's a very sensitive subject so that it doesn't make any mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u634	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Okay, so now we've practically got two suggestions. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Genjac's picking up, is he? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u635	I thank the chairman. It is undeniable that what has happened has caused enormous damage both Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina and mothers in Srebrenica, etc. It is indisputable that this must and should be discussed, as the Presidency and the Council of Ministers have already done. The presidency did its part of the work by making available the information it had at the time, the Council of Ministers also available and treating the information it had at its disposal. It should also be done by the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, but it seems to me in a different way. If we qualify it as an assassination attempt, I think we already have a problem. So the debate on this should be really calm, reasoned, well-intentioned, in the spirit of good voices heard from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia in terms of co-operation, talks, compromise demand and hands-on. Such a debate should be held here at the House of Peoples and at the House of Representatives. But I don't think such a debate is possible in a political discourse without having the necessary information to give political assessments. To give political qualifications and political assessments without information that is a condition without which it cannot, without the information that is necessary, without information that is accurate and on which political qualifications can only be based, I do not think it would contribute to this intention that the initiative has. And that's why I think we should talk about this, but with real information. I also agree that we should have had some information already, and I agree that someone should and should answer, I agree that we are also late, but all that is our problem will not be fixed, but on the contrary, it seems to me that if we open up a debate with political qualifications by making political assessments that cannot be said without having complete and real information. That's in this political sense, I'd say, more importantly, in a procedural sense, I think we should have material based on which to argue. In addition, the Rules of Procedure set this exactly for these reasons, that there is information to be discussed, that there is information on which the evaluations are made, etc. Believe me, a debate without this information will not bring any benefit that is entirely well-intentioned. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u636	Thank you. Mr. Radmanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u637	The reason for the replica is a few grades from Genjac Gentleman I don't think they're standing. In fact, it is true that we need to fix the situation, but it is not true that we will fix the situation if we do not discuss it or if we wait for some information that may not come in two months. The way we started, it won't be in two months. The second part is the assessment that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers have done their job. I don't think they've done anything and that there's political responsibility. Please remind you, the event in Potocari is organized by an NGO, and I have to say my assessment in person, she was the best person here. In this entire event, the best behavior is the head of Srebrenica and Mother Srebrenica, and the presidency that had guests, several presidents here, who, if I heard correctly, had no responsibility for the event. Well, the main political responsibility is with the BiH presidency, with all three members, of course there is reason to separate them and to say who is more, who is smaller, but at all three at this point. Wasn't it normal, ladies and gentlemen, for the Bureau to accept the first night of its apology its political responsibility for something like this and ask for an urgent response from the Council of Ministers. It's not a mild enough apology and they won't help with good relationships. We continue to have good relations thanks to Mr. Aleksandar Vučić. Let's all ask ourselves, would we behave the way he did if that happened to us? I'm sure you wouldn't. He's still holding his hand, and we're not able to do what we've all seen, what the kids know is what's going on, to initiate the procedure. The fourth in the chain of responsibility after three members of the presidency is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And he hosts the meeting in a certain way and by the guests he had and should host Vučić, regardless of being on an official visit by the Serbian prime minister, this is our neighbouring country, which is the prime minister, coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We haven't found a record of responsibility here either. And in my opinion, Mr. Zvizdić should have immediately asked for the change of the minister of security, who slept while it was happening, who later made statements that surprise young children when they heard them, not to mention the professional failures of the Police Body Coordination Directorate. Please, we've heard it all, we've seen it, we've read it, and it's all written these days, from how many people are given for security in each other's as much as with other things and other things. So we're going to fix relationships and keep high-level if we act like Aleksandar Vučić, but that means that those who did this are responsible here. And we all know, please, who it is. And the Bureau has not declared itself responsible, and it is responsible. It's easy to organize lunches and dinners and welcome the presidency, but it's hard to finish all this, and the job had to be done by the end, and it didn't end. Transferring responsibility between agencies and such answers as Mr. Krešić replied to Mr. Nović's lead nothing, nothing. You'll be given a letter at one of the next sessions. That's why I asked for the agenda. Gentlemen chairing me and now I think that it should be a part of the agenda and that this formal condition that you are talking about, and you have the right to do so, should not be valid in this situation and that, if it is not the Presidency and if it is not the Council of Ministers, this House provides an apology and seeks the responsibility of the people of this country and quick action to get to these solutions as it has been. If we sleep over because it says in the Rules of Procedure that we need material, and the material is unable to create a Police Body Coordination Directorate, then we are in the same basket as the rest, and we will continue to wait for the good will of the country's prime minister. 13 And one more thing to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. In this country, the constitutional people are Serbian and he sees Serbia's prime minister as his own, you can think he's thinking about what's been going on for the last five days, when no one's responsible for what's happened. I think we need to fix this quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u638	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Tadić, first deputy, and then I'll give the word to Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u639	Yes, the fact is that our people, Mr. Radmanović, have too many prime ministers. This, how many of these countries have emerged in the former Yugoslavia's space in all and one of us have our prime minister, and in some and a few. And not to open the question now of how we came to this and who is really experiencing the president of Serbia as his prime minister, and who is doing these or those needs. I reported for Mr. Genjac, so the thesis of the assassination is not the thesis one of the delegates in the order of the Serb people placed. She's the thesis that's currently being investigated, as far as I know. So here we need to figure out whether or not it's an assassination. So the first suspicion is the suspicion of the assassination, as it is a high-ranking state official of the Republic of Serbia who has been visiting for 20 years marking Srebrenica and the first suspicion of the assassination. We're not a court, and we're not going to decide who's responsible for that possible assassination, I personally think it's an assassination. And the second one that most of us probably wouldn't agree on here, is who might be behind it. Aleksandar Vučić has been a leading symbol in the Balkans over the past few years when it comes to fighting crime and corruption, when it comes to creating conditions for co-existence and reconciliation between all peoples and when it comes to European integration. The energy some politicians once had and lost, she simply found herself with him on all these three issues and he ran these processes. I think there are criminals in at least three of our constituent people who would applaud the murder of Aleksandar Vučić, and they would probably be overjoyed if that had happened the other day in Srebrenica. And not only to be an assassination, but to be the cause of decades-old new fights between Srbin and Bošnjak. There, as Mr. Nović says, is really... is missing, would be even more lacking if, God Bog, it really happened to Mr. Vučić and that, if it were some kind of deadly attack in his final. But since we see, is it so, that we are all here ready for this discussion, at the end of the day, we are talking about what else we are talking about, and not just us, but European and world officials, I suggest that, with all due respect to Mr Raguž and, of course, according to his will, whether, before or after his speech, we enter the agenda point, of course if he came forward on this subject unless he proposed some other point, since I still don't know, we take a break of one 5 minutes, 10, how much it takes Mr. Nović to formulate a written proposal for certain conclusions on behalf of the Club to fill this formal reason for holding the session. Whether these conclusions will be adopted, whether they are well written about it will be debated itself. But here, Mr. Nović, so just to write, to have some material, to say point 1 or what we're going to put, we don't have to say it out loud now, so the House of Nations condemns what happened, clearly described, gives the House of Peoples an apology to the high statesman of the neighbouring country with whom we want the best relations, the President of the Republic of Serbia, etc., the House of Peoples is asking for an urgent investigation of all the competent investigative authorities including the authorities of 14 police devices related to the common bodies, I don't know, the Republic of Serbia, the Federation and all those who can, of course, on their territory in accordance with the existing regulations, to determine who exactly is behind it and what it is... Here, let's put it on paper in these five minutes, 10, as long as it takes, and we have this material that, of course, expects the Chairman of the House as someone who runs the session and is obliged to warn about that business provision. If you agree with that, of course, with Mr. Raguž's apology, I don't know what the subject of his application is, so let's take that break. Here, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u640	Thank you. I didn't just realize if you were looking for a break right now or if we could let that gentleman go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u641	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u642	Well, then there's Mr. Raguž, as far as you're asking, for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u643	How long do we need the Wednesdays? Ten minutes, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u644	Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u645	Thank you very much. Well, you see, we're already having a debate and we haven't made it to the agenda point, and then let us all get involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u646	So what can I do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u647	That... my answer to Mr Tadić and this is not an exclusive debate on the relation you and Mr Radmanović, but a debate in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u648	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u649	Well, I answer you, I mean, you know, it means your question. So, surely we should discuss this today, here I am right now, if we're responsible. The second question is whether we have the conditions to conclude something that will also be responsible for the responsibility of the highest legislative body, which should be formulated in this sense today. And I just called to say, see if we can tell today when we're gonna be sitting. It could be a session of both Houses of 15 Parliaments. I think that would be the answer, because it is essential questions for this country. And that's why I'm saying that we should all contribute to finding a way today, because today, in my opinion, we can't conclude, we can lead the debate, I'm going to make my contribution to running it today, but the question is whether without relevant information we can really, uh, do the job right, and whether we should. We saw in reply to Mr. Nović that no assumptions were met, that we did not get an answer from the ministry today, we saw that. So now we can go to the evaluation politically without the key assessments of that... I'm not into that kind of prejudge thing, and I am that we're discussing today if we can, uh, make a sound conclusion and not put things back. The only prime minister or president of Serbia did not say that things would go back, only politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina say that, unfortunately, I have to say. He didn't say a word about things coming back, why we're here talking about going back a few years. Why is the lost focus from the greatest, greatest loss of humanitarian and global events, it was a global event, a global event? Unfortunately, the event, an impeccable attack on the prime minister, has overshadowed that potential to understand the relationship to the victims, to the mothers, to the future of this country. Are we going to have this serious discussion? I am for that, of course, to locate the responsibilities of those who were in charge of security, of protocol and of good household, which should be the first conclusion that... The second thing, it's not happening to us again this prime minister, it's not a private road, we've had protests in February when we saw leaks in security agencies, there's no coordination, there's no responsibility, we've seen floods, we've seen millions of things, and it's happening to us all the time -- are we going to take this seriously, will we? Here, I ask that question. I also believe that the president of the Republic of Serbia absolutely sent the messages that they need us to, in some ways, commit to following that positive message together. And we wouldn't be walking into any kind of a political trap today, except that we as the House of Peoples are looking for the responsibility of those who are responsible, and they are, for the failures that are unforgivable and that have happened, but not in a way that will bring us back, but that these miss us no longer again, with an apology to the Prime Minister and with the responsibility of the institutions. If we can formulate the conclusions now here's the guy, and even if we adopt them today I am and for that, it means, but not to go into some width now, but to focus, we really focus on the responsibility of the institutions, and to schedule when possible on the House this with written documents really one thorough debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u650	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Genjac answered the line, as far as I can tell. I'll give you more, I'll give you my word, and if you insisted, and it seems to me that it is, I don't know, whether or not the club will ask, if the club asks for a break, of course I will. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u651	Very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u652	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u653	Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u654	I wouldn't say that this positive atmosphere is maintained solely thanks to Mr. Vučić's behaviour. Fortunately not, there are many people who want a good atmosphere and who are very clear and categorically and said that this good atmosphere continues. The second thing, I don't argue that someone thinks that this was a political assassination, but I think, based on the information that I have, that I can't assess whether it was a political assassination or not, or at the end of the day, we're not going to bring that assessment, it's clear who's definitely making those conclusions. And that's why I say about the political qualifications of everyone who is motivated, therefore, or who is motivated by the intention of requiring a lot of information here and on the agenda. I think that information of quality, overall, objective information should then carry out a quality debate and make quality political conclusions in the interest of a good atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u655	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u656	The Honorable Chairman. You can see that because of a flat-rate response to a parliamentary, or delegate question, things get complicated. As simple as possible, as it is possible to explain to me that the Council of Ministers has considered and believed as a serious body and a serious minister based on something and I do not believe that they have only heard of the information and said – we have considered, we condemn the event. I don't believe that. They had to have all the rules and they had some sort of material, a page or two, but it was correct not to underestimate even the delegates and that today just says what the current Council of Ministers and Points is about. No Niko asked to say a gram more, not a gram less. But it's not right to sit here as delegates and tell them you'll get the information. That's not correct, and you can't convince me in this country that we can treat this House. This is not the home of the local community, this is one of the highest homes, or of two equal homes in this House. It's neither correct nor professional. Then why should we expect a different relationship from police structures, Bog forbid. If I were there, you'd say, "They don't even treat their Parliament, they don't care, you'll get something there sometime." But all of these issues could probably take hours or days to discuss, and I think Mr Tadić was speaking in that direction. I only expected that one of the Councils of Ministers would come out and say – we know only so much and you will receive gentlemen of information in the next three days. We didn't get that either. Is it even the point of discussing and looking for a agenda? Perhaps it is not, to say the least, that we are anathemised, that the House of Ministers does not need, because they are sufficient for themselves. But regardless of all that, if it doesn't, it doesn't seem to me to be a need to sharpen, I don't need to make new ones within us, not to say a very difficult word, I suggest a 15-minute break, I'm looking on behalf of the Serbian People's Club. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u657	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I'm taking a break from 15 minutes. Please, in 15 minutes, we'll all be back here. [[PAUZA]] Dear envoys and envoys, respected colleagues and colleagues, here is a little bit of a delay. Now I will give my word to Mr. Nović, as he sought, of course, a break, to the president of the Serbian People's Club. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u659	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for this watch, and we apologize for taking a little longer, but we did indeed seek to come to an acceptable conclusion after a bit of a heated start and debate on the agenda that would put this House in an active position and let everyone know that what happened for the conviction and for this House. So on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose conclusions. 1. The people's home strongly condemns the attack on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, who took place in Potocari on 11 July 2015. 2. The people's home is deeply regrettable that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been brought into such a situation and points to an apology to Mr. Vučić, with hope, as he himself said, that everything that happened will not cause consequences on the relations of the two countries. 3. The people's home is asking all the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to urgently determine the perpetrators of the attack and the responsibility of all persons in accordance with their responsibilities. It seems to me that it might be acceptable...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u660	Thank you, Mr. Nović. But in order to adopt the conclusions, we must, therefore, determine the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u661	Yes, and that is why we propose to be the item of the agenda to read – The adoption of conclusions regarding events during the ceremony in Potocari on 11.07.2015. The second point, to be the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u662	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u663	Thank you very much. I welcome the esteemed presidency, distinguished delegates. I will only say that the conclusions proposed by the distinguished Nović, that they fully correspond to the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers at an extraordinary session Monday. So we've also had three conclusions. The first is tied to, of course, the harsh condemnation of the attack on the distinguished prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vučić. We tasked the Ministry of Security with urgent, and in co-operation and co-ordination with all relevant security and police agencies and the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities, Preparations and the BiH Council of Ministers providing detailed information on these events with a proposal for measures. The third conclusion was that the Council of Ministers asked all competent institutions to conduct an emergency investigation, to identify the perpetrators of the attack on Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić, and to make the same in accordance with the laws and procedures. So, we expect that the Ministry of Security will quickly deliver to the Council of Ministers detailed information, with detailed analyses and a proposal for measures, and afterwards this esteemed House will have, of course, an authorised rapporteur on this subject, an authorised introduction and you will finally have material to discuss and bring adequate conclusions and an adequate proposal for measures. And we, here, agree with these conclusions, although of course their final word, the court, will bring home the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u664	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, we heard, so, what's the score? Of course, here we are, as the College fully agreed, and I now suggest, therefore, that we change the agenda, as Mr Nović suggested, so that the second item of the agenda should be the adoption of conclusions on events during the ceremony in Potocari on 11.07.2015, if that is acceptable? Yeah, okay. And then all of these points are going to move one number in advance, so today we're going to have 13 points of the agenda. Can we now, first go on, then, to the plea, that this, therefore, should be the second item of the agenda for the ceremony in Potocari. I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u665	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u666	We'd better make a point, but I don't think so. Run this mechanism so we can plead please. You can plead, vote now. Thank you. Of those 14 – there were 14 against and there were no abstentions. So, from Federation of BiH 9 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. We can conclude that, therefore, we have adopted the agenda with 13 points of the agenda. 19 We start with work, or agenda. Under the 1st adoption of the record, so we move to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. I don't think there's gonna be any need to argue, since we've already agreed. There's no need, is there? I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to make a statement. So we are voting on the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to plead. You can vote. From the 14 - 14 ’ s present, it was in favor. So, from Federation of BiH 9, RS 5. There's a general and entity majority. I am establishing a record of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. The adoption of conclusions on events during the Potocari ceremony 11.07.2015
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u669	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u670	Here, just a minute, I'll still give, open a debate on these conclusions, to honor the form, although the clubs have already agreed, but still for the sake of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the proposed conclusions. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now we'll get to the bottom of these three conclusions. Please prepare for a plea. You can vote. Of those 14 - 14 were for, against, and abstentions, therefore, there was no. From Federation of BiH 9 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted conclusions, as has already been read. I don't think there's any need to read the conclusions again. Thank you. We're going to the next item of the agenda, that's point number three, 20 Ad. 3. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Halid Genjac's proposal for a conclusion, proposed at the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH On the follow-up to the 36th session of the House of Peoples, held on 12.03.2014, envoy Halid Genjac proposed that the House adopt a conclusion that reads because of the complexity and importance, as well as the need to remove the ambiguity of certain proposed provisions, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is returned to the consideration by regular procedure. During the vote, the proposed conclusion did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it was agreed in the House College as the Committee. You've received a report from the committee of the House of the Peoples. The college didn't achieve consent. However, I don't know if I should, I don't think the debate should, since we're already in phase, so the statements. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are voted in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of envoy Halid Genjac, proposed in the follow-up of the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The decisions shall, you know, be made by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not contain 23 or more votes of the envoys elected from each entity. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So of the 14 present - 7 were for, versus 5, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH for 7, against no one and abstention 2, no one for, against the RS was 5 and no one abstentioned. The general majority exists, entity does not exist. I agree that the conclusion of envoy Halid Genjac, proposed for the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was not adopted. Since the conclusion was not adopted, and the fact, given that at the 33rd session of the House of People, held on 05.11.2013, the House of People adopted a request to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I am now opening a debate about the bill itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u672	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u673	I'm sorry, this is obviously a mistake written by the service. So now we're just going for a plea. No more arguments, no more statements about the law itself. So, we are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. 21 Of the 14 that were present, there were 10 against four, none abstentioned. From Federation of BiH 5 for, against 4, a abstention of no one. From RS 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens has been adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's item number four, Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the agreement of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the same text of the Customs Policy Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH) The House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held at the 4th session, held on 18/05/2015, passed the Law on Customs Policy in BiH with four amendments. At the 7th session, held on 26 December 2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Customs Policy Act in BiH with four amendments as well. Since the Law was adopted in a different text, compared to the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed representatives – Sead Kadić, Maria Karamatić and Nebojša Radmanović at the 4th session, held on 18.05.2015. The joint commission of both homes for achieving the same text of the said Law held at the meeting on 09.06.2015 reached agreement on the same text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH, and the report on which we are to be made known today. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on reaching agreement on the same text of the Customs Policy Act in BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 11, against the two were abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from RS 3 for, 2 against and no one abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the Joint Commission's report on the same course of the Customs Policy Act in BiH has been adopted by both BiH's Paramentary Assembly. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2014
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u677	I thank the chairman. In short, I think the report is thorough, reflecting in one objective way the activities of the Ombudsman Institution and providing a series of data needed to monitor the work, and I would say improvement. The entire report also shows a trend in the overall activity of the Ombudsman Institution through all the instruments held by the Ombudsman, including through these recommendations. I'd say the institutions are more and more responding to the ombudsmen's recommendations. 23 So, that, without entering the children of the Report, I would still ask the representatives of the Ombudsman institution about the preparation for the amendment or the creation of a new Law on the Ombudsman. In fact, there is a need, which has been shown in practice, a series of extremely important amendments and additions to the Ombudsman Act that are so much present, and this is clearly in this report, that it can be talked about the need to draft a new law. In this regard, one of the issues is the national mechanism for preventing discrimination, which according to Paris criteria is one way that the Ombudsman institution represents this mechanism, and we are as a state, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, is bound by certain deadlines to establish this prevention mechanism. The Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, right on today a year ago, appointed the Working Party for the construction or preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Law, this Law on the Ombudsman. I leave the question, or the representative of the Council of Ministers or the representative of the Ombudsman Institution, because they are both involved in this Working Group – what about this Working Group? How far are the changes going? What is the result of this Working Group and can we expect this result here in Parliament soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u678	Thank you. Is there still a debate? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If anyone can, maybe Mrs. Džumhur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u679	Let me welcome the distinguished delegates. I thank you for the question of the delegate Genjac. I can say that it is true that the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights has had a series of amendments over the past few years, which unfortunately did not result in a consolidated text being drawn up and the consequence is that and when the consolidated text is now made, there are two legal provisions missing, because it is obvious that someone who has made changes and supplements did not have enough skills or has made an oversight. So today's state of affairs, the legal situation points to a series of legal shortcomings. The reasons why a new text of the law should be done and not go with amendments and additions, among other things, are contained in that fact, but also in the fact that the Ombudsman institution has received several new mandates since the last amendment. Under the Law on Freedom of Access to Information, we are a central institution, according to the Law on Discrimination, we are a central institution and it is an emergency according to practices in other countries that the Ombudsman institution is a national preventive mechanism. So, these three reasons, in fact, relating to our mandate, point out the need for a new law to be done, but what is important is that the last amendments to the Laws that were made contained in them contained a series of transitional provisions relating to the unification of the three institutions of the Ombudsman at the entity and state level. And by doing so, they no longer have any legal power and burden the legal text. The rules that exist within Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions are that if 40% of the text changes, it is necessary to go into the new law. Regarding your second question – the work of the Working Group, I must say that the Ombudsmans were involved in the first working period of the Working Group and after the Council of Ministers, after the term of office of the Working Group was extended, we stopped working in the Working Group for the reason that the concept was changed and in some ways we focused on the recommendations of the International Coordination Committee. We're not familiar with the latest developments, and I believe the minister will be able to give you comprehensive information. But definitely what I've heard, so from her presentation, she plans to forward the legal text by the end of the year, whether to amend and supplement or complete the law, by the end of this year. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u680	Thank you, Mrs. Džumhur. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Now we're moving on to a plea. So we are voting on the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present – for it was 12, against none, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, 1 a abstention, from RS 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, I conclude the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH has been adopted. Moving to point seven, that's Ad. Seven. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2014, State Regulatory Agency's material for radiation and nuclear safety You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH. The commission passed the report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 14th session, held on 30.06.2015. I give my word to Mr Sifet Podžić, appointed by the Joint Committee as rapporteur at the House if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the state of radiation nuclear security for 2014. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present – for there were 12, none against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 7 for, against none, 1 abstention, from RS 5 for, against none, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I'm establishing a report on the state of radiation nuclear security for 2014 has been adopted. Moving to point eight, that's, uh, 25 Ads. 8. Information from the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH on the security of supply of spent fuel and the safety of radioactive waste management in the Shop Gore
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u683	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. Since I asked a delegate question at the previous session of this House, when it comes to the disposal of this waste, I just want to say a few words about this information today and to say immediately that I absolutely support the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH. And what is very important in this Information too, here is the Commission's opinion itself, has confirmed that the timely response to such events can produce 26 such conclusions and that Bosnia and Herzegovina simply through all its mechanisms, which it has, prevents what I think was in its intention. Here, I'm going to repeat a few findings from this information, which I think are very important, to point to what could possibly have happened, and at the same time to point to the seriousness of all these events, because today this is happening in the Court of the Union, tomorrow it can go somewhere else, and we all know the consequences all of this can produce. What is very important is the fact that all this activity in the selection of the site has been largely conducted without significant public participation, and that the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina have first been informed about it, i.e. they have come up with information through means of information. Secondly, it is also that because of these conventions which are still not, and because of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders, known as Espoo and the availability of information on public participation and decision-making, the lack of access to justice in environmental issues, it must be possible to take part in consultations with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia concerning the disposal of this type of waste. On this occasion, I would like to confirm that both the reaction and the resolution that was adopted in Novi Grad Municipality had its meaning and, of course, that population was deeply concerned about the possible consequences, and the local authorities reacted in time. Also worrying is that, according to contacts with international experts, there is no such case in the world that some country's nuclear waste from a nuclear power plant, located in another area, has put off beyond that area and near the border with a country. Some attempts have been made, but have been prevented by reactions and opposition from local communities. I think he's saying this enough, and this all goes hand in hand to describe all the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to respond in time. And the purpose of my presentation today is to reaffirm my concerns about these developments, to support these conclusions and what I ask for, of course, not to be declarative, because in my presentation of the Council of Ministers, when it is answered to the asked delegation issue, he said that it would be included, or a proposal to include a representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And all this together with other institutions gives hope that we will succeed in bringing this case to an end, in a way that will be satisfactory for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u684	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Information of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH on the security of supply of spent fuel and the security of the management of radioactive waste in the Shop. Prepare to plead. Vote now. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, against and abstentions, there were no RS 5 for. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH on the security of the supply of spent fuel and the security of waste management of radioactive waste in the Shop Gora has been accepted. 27 Now I ask you to prepare yourselves for the vote on the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 5 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee in BiH have been adopted. Moving to point nine, that's it, Ad. Nine. Information on problems in business and operation of BHRT, material of BiH Radio-Television Management Board You have received the opinion of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. I will read to you what the Committee has observed, as the most significant point. According to financial indicators, the overall situation in BHRT is getting worse. It is necessary to establish a new efficient and sustainable model for the collection of tv charges. The financial situation of BHRT is very seriously burdened with staff costs and in this part it is necessary to access systematic rationalisation. Digitalisation and the overall modernisation of the production of the broadcasting programme should be one of the priorities of all participants involved in the public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The existing representation of the language of the constituent peoples in public broadcasting is not satisfactory, which has also been established in the European Parliament resolution of 30.04.2015 on the 2014 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Progress, which calls for a serious, professional and unlilysed debate in order to find a final and acceptable solution for all peoples and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dissatisfaction over the irregular representation of the language as well as dissatisfaction with certain programme content of one part of the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina contributes to the non-payment of the RTV tax as well as the negative attitude towards BHRT. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly as a legislative body should be involved in resolving the problems in the business and functioning of BHRT in order to preserve its integrity and maintain its public role. The BiH Council of Ministers and the Resorient Competent Ministry of Transport of BiH should be fully involved and take the lead in addressing urgent problems in the functioning of BHRT and in finding a complete solution to the public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The commission proposes to the House of People to open a detailed debate at the plenary session on issues in the public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to come to concrete conclusions, with particular emphasis on the issues the commission points to in this opinion. I give the word to Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, if he appreciates the need. No, I don't. Thank you. Information to be submitted to the applicant if he is present, if he appreciates the need to say something. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here's Maria Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all know how important the media influence is, here's the freshest example I'll explain. BHRT has recently had two really big projects that it has set, well, at a top level, maybe even beyond its capabilities. One is the Holy Father's welcome in Sarajevo and the other is the 20th anniversary of Srebrenica. And on this particular example, we can see how important the media is. Before the arrival of the svet otac in Sarajevo, we had in all the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina a positive atmosphere, a single campaign, not a follow-up campaign, so there was a positive atmosphere, and whoever watched that day from Sarajevo then something happened to Bosnia and Herzegovina that hadn't happened to her in decades. For one day, imagine, Bosnia and Herzegovina was a normal country. It was nice to see that transmission, it was nice to see in Sarajevo pure Sarajevo, a mosque of synagogues, Catholic, Orthodox churches, a positive atmosphere. There weren't even stray dogs. After that, the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica crime took place, and we had one terrible negative campaign in the media, led by Federal TV, of course portals. And it ended as it ended, it ended with the second item of the agenda today. Folkly speaking, it's embarrassing, it's blowing to the sky. It's the media's influence. What, we have had really extensive discussions on this topic at the Committee on Foreign Trade, Transport, Communications, etc., and, here I am using the opportunity to thank the management of BHRT because in this Information there is indeed everything that we asked them to deliver to us. I have also said many times in my remarks that BHRT is a very correct media house, and I stand behind those words today. Maybe one of the problems with the bill is that, one of the reasons it falls, but not so much, so first I have to mention, most of the contributions, were they informative, cultural or any kind of character, which it publishes, I will speak mostly from the Federation area, because I come from that part, most contributions refer to the triangle of Sarajevo, Zenica, Tuzla. Posavina, Western Bosnia, my Herzegovina, is nowhere to be found, as if we don't exist here. It is logical to expect a drop in charges in those areas that are not adequately represented. It's not just Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's a little bigger than that triangle that appears systematically. It can be overwritten to a bad financial situation, it can be overwritten. In this report, you've had a drastic drop in the billing fee. So, the drastic down payment starts from 2010. So, in 2009, it was 3%, in 2010, that decline in RTD tax was a terrible 6%, and by 2015 the total charge of RTD tax only from the Federation, so I'm talking about the Federation, down by 31%. The reason for such a drastic drop in revenue collection is, I note, if someone forgot, the Federal TV is charging a TV fee in the Federation, during that period in 2010 the Federal TV was campaigning so aggressively against the Croatian people. And here, I would like to have someone give me one relevant argument that would make a member of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it's from Orasj, from Širok Brijeg, mostly from those areas where the SDP achieves a symbolic result, which is why someone would pay a subscription to a television house with which, according to the Federal TV Employees' Union, the president's SDP candidate is walking in pre-election meetings. It just doesn't make sense. And then, there's also one interesting piece of information here -- never 20% of BH Mobile and Emtel subscribers paid a TV fee, 75% of HT Eronet subscribers never paid that fee. For what? We're not smaller patriots than subscribers, two public TV services, two telecoms. No subscription has been paid – we never saw this television as our own. You can't experience Federal TV as your own when it systematically pronounces you a fascist, like this and tells a story about a civil state. I note that this is a national state of three constituent nations. The census wasn't 29 years ago, and here, I hope in a few years we'll get official results. And then we will see very clearly the rest of this country, of course, that they should have all the rights as well as the constituent peoples. However, they are at the level of statistical error. And that's how it's gonna stay that way. I assure you that today, at least 95% of the Eronette subscribers, i.e. HT Mostar who don't pay TV subscription. She won't be paid. And we can pass the law that the subscription is charged with electricity bills, we can pass the law to send donkeys to everyone in front of the house and get the donkey to send that over payment. The Hrvat won't pay for it while it's like this. What's this about? The Law on the Public TV System is imposed by the international community, by that gentleman, not the one who is now, whom I asked if he could come here to ask him a few words. And the essence of the whole problem was not agreed by the Law by the three constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A law like that can't work. Gentlemen and ladies dear, one nation has never been able to win. I assure you he won't now. What's the solution? The solution is that we sit down and make a new Law on the Public TV System that will be acceptable to both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe we have the capacity, and I'm sure we have the will to do that. I'll remind you what the solution is. The solution is in the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of 23 April 2008. The conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly under point 3 clearly states – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for establishing a new TV channel in Croatian within Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV System, based on the provisions of Article 9(2). Public TV system law. The solution is in the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH of 15 May 2008 where, in that same conclusion, paragraph 3, I quote - The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to immediately initiate the procedure for the establishment of a new TV channel in the Croatian language within Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV system, based on the provision of Article 9(2). Public TV system law. The solution is in the European Parliament resolution of 30 April 2015, which clearly states that it is necessary to establish a channel in Croatian within the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV system. And, here, not only is the solution found in the joint statement of the President of the Interparliamentary Meeting of the European Parliament and the Parliament of the BiH Assembly, held in Strasbourg on 20 and 21 May 2015, when two delegations, meaning our delegation and the European Parliament's delegation made a joint statement in item 12, I quote - stressing that for the public media they are essentially stable and sustainable funding. And we cannot have stable and sustainable funding until all three peoples are satisfied, independent editing, which we also cannot have while media editors-in-chief walk in pre-election meetings in media jackets and not political parties representing, and broadcasting programs in all official languages. Three official languages in this country are – Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian. We cannot have a Federal TV that is party television, a Republika Srpska TV that covers the territory of Republika Srpska and BHRT, which is loaded with 945 employees. Because of the non-application of the laws that have been passed and which are to be implemented here, you simply cannot serve. And I think it's high time we had a serious talk about these things, to seriously make a change to the new law. What's gonna happen? Me and my colleague... we were when he was the EU's special envoy for broadcasting and we appealed to him to use his influence not to shut down the BHRT signal immediately after the expiry that we received for two days until we had to complete the digitisation. You know how much that's got him? The same day one transmitter came out, we were turned off. I'm sure by the end of the year, no later than next year, that all transmitters that are in border areas with neighbouring countries will be shut down, because we're simply bothering them. 30 So it is time for us to sit down and make a deal. There's no one else to do this to us. Again, if we wait for the international community, this, that, that, we'll get some back-on-the-mill law that'll only cause us new problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u687	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Are there any more applications? I don't see any interest. Given that we will now plead on this information... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, we have Mr. Podžić, who signed up. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u689	Well, I, a colleague of Karamatić, once again, although during the negotiations on forming power we have repeatedly warned ourselves about that, thus correcting the wrong allegations. It is necessary to read the Constitution and see that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a national state of three constituent nations, but has a point and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u690	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. Are there any more applications? There isn't. So, if, of course, it is acceptable for you, after the adoption of this information, I will suggest one conclusion that will go in the direction of the commitment of this Committee, which has already done a good part of the work, that it also proposes concrete conclusions at the next session of the House of Nations, having in mind, therefore, what they have already observed and, behold, a debate at today's session. So I'm closing the debate. And now we are voting on Information on problems in the business and functioning of BHRT, the material of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. From 12 to 10 were for, against was no one, abstentioned 2. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, none against, nitlessly abstention, from RS 2 for, against, none, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am finding out about the problems in the business and functioning of BHRT, the material of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board, has been accepted. I'll read this conclusion. If it is acceptable for you to make a statement about him. So, I'll read it before and I'll open a discussion of the conclusion itself. The conclusion would therefore be: The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections is in charge that, on the basis of its findings or already, here, the findings delivered to us and today's debates, 31 prepare concrete conclusions on this issue and deliver them to the House of Peoples for the next session. If, then, this, here, I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. There are no reports. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on this conclusion now. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 12 present – there were 12 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from RS 4 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity council. I find this conclusion was adopted by the House of Nations. We're going to the 10th agenda of today's session, that's Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 4th session, held on 07.04.2015, in accordance with Article 24. The law on the revision of BiH institutions, laid down a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor of the Office for the Audit of the BiH Institutions submitted to you. At the 11th session, held on 15 July 2015, a College of the People's House established a proposal by members of the Interim Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office, Bariš Čolak, Darko Babalj and Fahrudin Radončić. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Why isn't this mechanism running, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u692	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u693	Here, you can vote. Out of the 13-10s present there were for, against, no, 3 were abstentions. So the Federation of BiH 8 was for, no one against, no one abstention, from RS 2 were for, no one against, 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the main 32 auditors and the deputy chief auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions in which we have appointed from the House of Peoples: Bariša Čolak, Dark Babalj and Fahrudin Radončić. We're going to the 11th agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on an arrangement for the implementation of the Union financial support for Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The commission has concluded that the prior conditions for granting consent have been met, and is proposing to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to give consent to ratification of the agreement. The commission also adopted the next conclusion proposed to the House for adoption. - The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the competent ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina to ensure that all competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with their responsibilities, are included in the process of negotiations on the conclusion of international agreements, and that all possible different views and opinions must be agreed before the text of the agreement is sent to ratification in order to avoid unnecessary debates and delays during the parliamentary procedure for granting prior consent to ratification. I give the word to Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u695	A five-minute break on behalf of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u696	Thank you. I'm taking five minutes off.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u697	The Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u698	No, the club. ... Clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u699	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u700	On behalf of the club. 33 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-15-0.u701	We're going back to work. We will now vote on granting consent, so we closed the debate and are now voting on giving consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on an arrangement to implement the Union's financial support under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II). Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 13 - 8 present were for, 2 were against, were abstentions 3. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. So, no consent in the College, we have to go to the second round of pleas. Please prepare for the second round of voting. You can vote. Of the 13 present – for it was 8, against 2. abstention 3. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we agreed to ratify the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on an arrangement to implement the Union's financial support under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). We now have to vote on the conclusion, whether or not, of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. I don't think there's any need to read it again, you've heard the conclusion, you've all got it in the materials. I ask you to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Of the 13 present there were 13, there were none against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH there were 8, from RS for 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications at the House of Peoples has been adopted. Moving to point 12. That's it, Ad. 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the realisation of the grant of assistance from the Government of Japan to obtain new generation vehicles Report of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications was received. I give the word to Mr. Radmanović, if he appreciates his needs. Okay. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote. We are voting on granting consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – the exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the implementation of a grant of assistance from the Government of Japan to obtain a new generation vehicle. You can vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH there were 8, from RS for 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. 34 I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Note of the Agreement – the exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the implementation of the grant of assistance from the Government of Japan to obtain a new generation vehicle. Moving to point 13, that's it, Ad. 13. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the realisation of the grant of assistance to the Government of Japan for 2014
