ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8892	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome all of you as well as honored guests and open the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office whose reports are on the agenda of our session are also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda has sent word that Deputy Minister Mirsad Žuga will attend the session on behalf of this ministry. BiH Security Minister Dragan Mektić has sent word that he is unable to attend the session for justified reasons. Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić sent a notice that he was unable to participate in the 19th session of the House for official travel. The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Fehim Škaljić and representative Hanko Vajzović. According to service information, 37 MPs are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. It is added to the agenda: point 12. The appointment of the main auditor and deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, material: the interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office. The previous agenda has been downloaded: Point 4. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-12/15 of 06.08.2015 (second reading), at the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, because of a large number of amendments tabled so that the Proposer of the Law could in some way be shown about these same amendments. Point 16. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex IV. Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project for the benefit of the judiciary and/or courts and 2 prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-1305/15 of 13.10.2015, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH – Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, Law No 01,02-02-1-15 of 07/09/2015, was supplemented by the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission which did not establish the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of BiH, and did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. I find that the 19th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Single Origin Act under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No 01,02-02-1-19/15, of 15.10.2015; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-116/15, of 07/09/2015. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/15, of 11/09/2015. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH – Proposer: Representative Nikola Lovrinović, Law No: 01,02-02-1 15/15, of 07/09/2015, with Opinion of the Constitutional Committee; 7. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2014, the BiH Presidency's material, number: 01,02-16-1-844/15, of 29.06.2015; 8. Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2014, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-1243/15, of 29/09/2015; 9. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Energy Efficiency in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1087/15, of 31.07.2015; 10. A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27.08.2015, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the College of the House to establish the agenda and, for the longest time every 60 days, establish a mandatory item of the agenda titled: Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment on the European path and level of compliance with BiH's commitments under the BiH Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda for BiH for the period 2015-2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda of the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, issue: 01-50-1136/15, of 27.08.2015; 11. The appointment of the three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-50-14-469-6,1/15, of 14.10.2015; 3 12. Appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions Office, Material: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office, issue: 01,02-50-14-1060-5,4/15, of 22.10.2015; 13. Approval to ratify the Amending of the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2010 National Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - Part I. – Water and sewerage in Republika Srpska, concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 06.11.2012 in Luxembourg and 20.11.2012 in Sarajevo, issue: 01.02-05-2-1295/15, of 12.10.2015; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Treaty (Central Heating Project Prijedor) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska and Toplana a.d. Prijedor and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to the investment grant from the AIDS/EBRD Fund for Environmental and Climate Programmes, issue: 01.02-05-2-1303/15, of 13.10.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation in 2012, No: 01,02-05-2- 1304/15, of 13.10.2015; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual travel of citizens, No 01,02-05-2-1319/15, of 15.10.2015. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 18th session of Parliament's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I don't see any reports. I'm closing point one. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8895	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I got two answers from the Council of Ministers, nothing was said there, I wouldn't particularly comment on it, but the Directorate for Direct Taxation has, in some ways, entered into the essence. What I'm saying is that there's a problem recorded, that they understand their responsibility, that they say they're doing something. I only ask them to supplement it – what is it, and within what time will the problem they have realized that there is within what time limit can we have the answer to solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8896	Thank you. Commentary, Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8897	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, honored guests. To my insistence, therefore, I asked to be delivered precisely which of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not apply the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency Act and co-ordination of the fight against corruption in part of the development of integrity plans and the implementation of the anti-corruption prevention strategy. The answer is now complete, I got it, I guess all the other colleagues and colleagues. And what saddens me is that the answer stands precisely which 10 institutions have just begun, is that, with the development of integrity plans, while 3 institutions – the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the Institute for Missing Persons and the Intelligence Security Agency, have not started this job at all, and I think they are obliged as well as other institutions to respect the said Law. So my wish was that all institutions, so here are these 13, 10 that have just begun as well as 3 that have not started their activities in the application of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency Act, do so and do their binding part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8898	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8899	I thank the chairman. The comment is on the fact that it has been close two months since I asked an additional question for the BiH Justice Ministry that I have not received an answer to. And I'm taking this opportunity again to ask the College to urinate the delivery of answers, it's 30 days. I really don't know why I should be sitting in a session pointing to these failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8900	Thank you very much. I don't see any more commentary applications at the moment. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Single Origin Act under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliamentary House The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 15.10.2015 with a request for review under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. The bill was passed at the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 14.10.2015. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate on the request. I don't see any reported at this time, here we have, signed up for us by Agent Backović. Agent, did you want to go on the matter of an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8902	I'm sorry, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8903	We'll talk about the law later.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8904	I pushed the machine.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8905	So you're giving up, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8906	No, I'll discuss it by law when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8907	When the time comes, then now it means remove. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the next point, point four, six Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 18th session of the House, held on 07.10.2015. In 22.10.2015, the Council of Ministers provided an opinion and additional explanation on the principle of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Protection Law in BiH, in line with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector. The Joint Commission on Human Rights delivered 27.10.2015. The bill's proposal report. There were no amendments. I'm opening a debate on the bill. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate at point 4. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8910	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Of course, I have read this Law, I believe that this Law is correct and I have invested on this Law 7 amendments, which the Commission discussed at its joint session on Monday, and of these seven amendments have actually adopted two amendments that have been slightly modified and put in place as one amendment. Of course, it is the Commission's right and I respect the Commission's position, and I am only sorry about one amendment that has been related to us coming from the real sector, and it concerns co-operation with foreigners in the direct economy when we have, so the parties that come to our country about training our workers or controlling regularity with work, the equipment used by us. That amendment has not been tabled and I'm sorry about that amendment, whether it's misunderstanding or some other stuff I'm really not getting into, but here, I'll support it, so this zakon and I give absolute support I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8911	Thank you, counsel. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I'm closing the debate at point five. Moving to point six, seven, ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH – Proposer: Representative Nikola Lovrinović, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 07/09/2015 with an urgent request for an examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. At the 17th session of the House held on 16 September 2015, an emergency procedure was not adopted, and the proposal for a law was decided to be discussed under a fundamental legislative procedure. The House College has appointed a constitutional committee responsible for its consideration. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 27.10.2015. The commission did not agree with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8913	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all here in this House. So, first of all, as I propose this, i.e. the amendment and addition of this Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, I would like to say a few of my thoughts on the subject of the Constitutional Commission's position, because we are actually going to declare it today, and that is, as you have seen in the material, so negatively on what I have suggested. Namely, here was a month ago and more when I proposed by emergency procedure I was thinking that these questions that were foreseen in this proposal in the field of education were at a rather... the boiling point in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the beginning of the school year, it was not, of course, over and over today, a little bit, if, all this shouting had settled, of course only the problem had been delayed, so I wanted to help, and then it seemed to me that if it had been accepted, it was possible to implement it at the beginning of this school year. However, since it is not already so now he is in the regular procedure, it means that, possibly if today at least the opinion of the Constitutional Commission is rejected, then reassessed, he may contribute for the next school year, but I would like to say something to you on this occasion as colleagues and colleagues from which you will be able to conclude what my ideas were, in fact, to propose some kind of possible solution when it comes to these issues in the field of education, primary and secondary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm just going to say a few thoughts, I hope to fit in with what's scheduled in time. In a complex state community, the system of its own education guarantees freedom, equality and the possibility of each of the sovereign peoples to fully protect, realize and promote their subjectivity, and national and cultural identity. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is possible to build three very harmonised systems or education subsystems framed into state and European standards of education. This democratic and practical concept prevents unitaryisation of education and especially the danger of segregation and assimilation of students through the school system. It is simply about the exercise of equal rights of every constituent nation in the field of education, culture, science, media etc. No one can deny the constitutional right of all citizens and peoples of this country to speak in their own language and to write in their own letter, so that they have schools in their own language and in their letter, because they also have national minorities in democratic countries. However, no nation can impose a language and a letter on one another. Every nation has the right to have children at school, members of that people, learn and teach from all classes in their... mother tongue. Teachers also need to speak in the standard language of their students who learn their own language at school and gain their cultural identity on 8 of them. School is a privileged place to learn every language and cultural heritage. So what I suggested for me was the minimum constitutional law they asked for, for example. children and parents of Konjević Polje, Vrbanjac, Drvara, Glamoč. This is also what children didn't ask for, and it belongs to them, for example. children and parents of Sarajevo, Tuzle, Zenica. Now here are those who supported them in requests for constitutionally seeking the right to education according to their cultural identity say this is an anti-constitutional solution. Obviously this is valid, this current solution is valid and constitutional and that those who have been declared constitutional rights disputers actually have the right to say that this is an anti-constitutional solution. So, conditionally speaking, the two sides said it was an anti-constitutional solution and did not fit Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. Let me remind you, this is just a more precise solution to the National Group of Cases Agreement, which they all signed in 2002. Despite my willingness to make some adjustments to these solutions, the founders say it is counterconstitutional. How changes can in principle be counter-constitutional to a law that was once passed long ago, I guess then constitutionally. Obviously this is only a defense of acquired education positions with the aim of expanding rights but only for its own. I hope in the end that those who said this was against the constitution, and they are authorized to regulate the issue from this area, this solution or similar will enter into legal solutions according to their powers and finally solve this issue that I, here, wanted to launch, and wanted to help solve, but here, so it is as it is. Well, I'm calling on my colleagues if there's no one else to at least reject this opinion of the Constitutional Commission and to return to the discussion, maybe then we can find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8914	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8915	I thank the chairman. I had no intention of reacting that there was something negative about the constitution and the two sides were called. Yes, I am one of those who voted against this law because this law is completely contrary to entity and cantonal laws, because this law is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, because this law in the entire country needs to introduce apartheid in education and is contrary to the position of the UN which requires Bosnia and Herzegovina to end segregation in public schools as soon as possible. With this law, all schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be these. And you know what this is? Two schools under one roof in Travnik, where children are separated by wire, I don't know if it's barbed wire. And we'll always be against it. And this really isn't right and with this practice you need in this country... What to expect from these children who grow up in the ambience that they can't play football with other children and look through the wire, the school completely, the school yard. I was amazed, this was e-mailed by the citizens of Travnik. What kind of future are we talking about here? And so that's why we were against this law and we have no intention of changing our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8916	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8917	So, apart from the fact that Pandurević showed pictures of an inappropriate example, because this is about a school that was supposed to return to the Catholic school centre and was partly returned and was not returned. The works left them because the works were carried out in one part of the school in the other, there is still public school in one part. But I didn't get up for it, but you didn't set an example of segregation and discrimination, you didn't mention in this proposal, which means you just spoke in descriptively, except for these pictures you showed. I would ask you to say what children's rights are being violated if we signed in 2002 in the era of return, it is probably today, and it is... questions, you are aware of that, so you have signed everything, all of the educational and education resolution ministries and some other resolution ministries – return, displaced and refugees, that in the return zones they will allow children to return, because of schooling they do not return or leave, but when they return because they do not have those opportunities. So we agreed that the national group of subjects should be included in the curriculum and programme and education to make it easier to adapt to the space they came into. So this is about making it possible for children who are more few in a particular area of Bosnia and Herzegovina than the more numerous people, or the national minority, at least, as you saw in my proposal, six subjects, and those six elementary school courses are almost half the curriculum and programmes, to experience culturally, identically, so that they experience. It's no segregation. So in this proposal, I have proposed a final solution to the issue of the use of official languages in the curriculum and programme. And it stands as a first, and only as an alternative, given the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, is a solution for children who are, in some ways, in a small number or so to say minority in a certain area, and that in the education system they can still experience as much in a specific state, a specific arrangement as Bosnia and Herzegovina is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8918	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8919	So this is nothing new for European countries, or that even minorities have a complete curricula and a program in their own language in a particular area, and a non-praying national group of subjects. I didn't hear any examples of segregation and discrimination that you cited, none. So, did I take something here right away from the constituent people, the individual, the returnee, etc. Excuse me. Here, I'd like you to name it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8920	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8921	I thank the chairman. I would like you to read Article 2. Your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8922	10 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8923	So what's two schools under one roof? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8924	/not micorofn/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8925	Please, please, please, counsel. Just don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8926	I think you just said it yourself that I don't need to comment any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8927	Thank you very much. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8928	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the HDZ MP, Mr Nikola Lovrinović, has the legitimate right to propose proposals for amending laws and laws, and he is using his right to do so. I do not dispute that, however, not in particular and not in some detail, but deeply and essentially disagree with this bill. Here, as some have noticed before me, it's not just a policy that favors two schools under one roof, but we also have some new modification that we might call two roofs under one school, apparently. Obviously, with such proposals, we will not improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, since I have said that I do not really agree with this proposal, I will not discuss the details, but I must ask the promoter publicly during this debate, given that in Article 28 of this proposal, the amendment and the addition talks about the languages of the constituent peoples. Here, I am now asking Mr Lovrinović, as the HDZ State MP, whether the HDZ in the cantons where he plays the dominant and ruling role has provided that they can be used in these cantons in the equal languages of the constituent peoples in the way they are defined, among other things, by signing the Dayton Peace Agreement itself, and we know in which three languages he is officially and signed. So my question is – is it where HDZ has the opportunity to show its policy, have you recognised three equal languages and their names in the way they are recognised, I repeat, among other things, and by signing the Dayton Peace Agreement?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8929	Thank you. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8930	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome my fellow MPs or MPs and present to the Council of Ministers with Mr. Zvizdić at the helm. 11 After an analysis by the body dealing with the subject of this Act, the position of BPS, the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party Sefer Halilović, is to propose to Mr Lovrinović that he withdraws this Act himself, because it leads in full to full discrimination of children, not related to the nation, religion, language, but to their orientation towards discrimination of others. We teach kids to hate, disrespect, discriminate in the future. The way you have defined the law would be very interesting to see, since you mentioned that you have examples, we have analyzed it, since we have, I do not know if you are in progress, how many national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we forget it, Slovak, Slovakia, Ukrajinac, rusin, Poljak2, Bjelorus, Slovenac, Albanac, Mađar, Makedonac, Crnogorac, I can now list a few dozen. It's hard on us if it goes with the example you want. No, Denise, there's not going to be a school under two roofs, there's going to be schools under a hebeth roofs, and... we're going to pick it up slowly, and we're going to school some of them to be akingia to make a personal charm happen. I don't know if you understand what I am, if you're not, I'll translate. [[Common discussion]] I'll translate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8932	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8933	Actually, it's a replica, since we don't have it here, right? So, I would like the gentlemen who spoke of this proposal to say that they see the organisation of the title process in the official languages of the constituent peoples, is it anywhere. So there is only one in central Bosnia, therefore, because there is at least a curricula and a programme in Croatian and Bosnian. There are only curricula and programmes in Bosnian or Serbian in Republika Srpska, Sarajevo, Tuzla and Zenica. So if that's the solution, if what I'm proposing is discrimination and segregation, this is a complete assimilation of all those who, therefore, are learning and working through the curriculum. If you have a solution, get up here and tell us what the solution is, so for a school that is constitutionally guaranteed that the teaching process is taking place in all three official languages. So, I'd like to, I haven't heard a single solution like that. So in central Bosnia, there are schools in the Herzegova-Neretva County within these constitutionally competent territories at least two curriculas and programmes and official languages. As one school course can take place in all three official languages, none of you have gone out and said it yet. So we have a solution and for that, it's not a topic. So we've opened up a debate about the law itself, and we're discussing a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, so I don't have enough time to explain all possible situations through these replicas. Why did the children of Konjević Field or the children of Drava ask for at least a national group of items? Why do you even introduce religious education in some schools, why do you introduce language in the setting of another curriculum and program? Because once your representatives signed it. So they're real kids. First of all, we have made it possible for us to choose anything at least in central Bosnia's right to education in Croatian and Bosnian. You don't have a choice in Republika Srpska, you don't have a choice in Sarajevo, you have a Bosnian language, a curricula and a program whatever you call it, and that's just that parents aren't loud enough in 12 pupils and in Tuzla or somewhere else, so I can't come to the air that they don't actually have education on their own, they don't have a national class, they don't have anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8934	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8935	So, the national group of subjects are likely to be studied, about, not a very good term, as an extra class, and these are children who go to the same school, but they would have at least six items to experience in their cultural heritage. This is how they have language. Then, then, then, I don't know what you're looking for, then the school works where it works, where these people I've set up are looking for examples, they're working on the language and the teaching plan and the program that the Resolute Ministry prescribed there, and I don't know what the problem is. If there's no problem, then I don't have a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8936	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8937	In my discussion, therefore, I asked a very precise question to a respected colleague, Lovrinović. Since I have not received the answer once again, I will ask publicly – is it, therefore, that the Proposer of this Law and given the content of the Law, is it in cantons where HDZ is the ruling and dominant party provided that all three languages in which the Dayton Peace Agreement is signed can be equally used?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8938	Thank you. Debate, Monika Tomić. Here you go. Please, is it a mistake or is it Monika Tomić's lawyer who signed up, is it a mistake or is it a mistake? It's not a mistake. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8939	I welcome all present. I would only say so very briefly about this, if I didn't see in this Law any discrimination, that this Law gave us opportunities, so that all the peoples used their language throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it had the right choice, and we all know that choice is essentially democracy. I would now, although it is not mine to answer to Mr. Denis Bećirović, but I would say that what Mr. Denis Bećirović is asking for is on Croatian territory, so we are also looking for in Croatian territories, not only Croatian but also the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8940	Thank you very much. 13 The debate, Damir Bećirović, and Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations, I apologize, it was too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8941	This is just a classic correction to the wrong quote. So, an esteemed colleague stated that I said something that happened on Croatian territory. So, if we were to ask for a break now and look at the stenogram of my presentation, we could very clearly see that I did not speak for a moment about Croatian territory, nor did I ever talk about Croatian, Bosniak or Serbian territory, but only about the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that territory, I understand, and by the understanding of the political party of the SDP that I belong to, whether, throughout that territory, all its citizens, peoples and languages have always had to be equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8942	Thank you very much. Now the word has a representative, Damir Bećirović, because the replica has fallen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8943	I am truly sorry first to see this proposal again, uh, anyone who has ever followed the path of MP Lovrinović knows what his, what his goal is, and we have seen how he worked while he was Minister of Education in the Middle Bosnian Canton. That's why he was replaced by the OHR. So this Law, which comes before us, first means schools in Croatian language exist in Tuzla, means in Croatian and Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8944	Which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8945	Of course, the Catholic school center. There are other schools.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8946	Please don't, counselor, don't have a dialogue. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8947	There are schools in Sarajevo and Tuzla. Of course you don't have words. But what you're trying to do here, as someone has already said, is share children from little feet and then don't be surprised when you have problems like you have in this country, because these problems start from little feet. Instead of going to work in a way that integrates all schools, integrate education, have the same curricula, normally everyone decides which language they will speak or what they will speak, you go further away from children, from small feet. You also mentioned a term of assimilation that is as wrong as this. No Niko here asks anyone to be assimilated anywhere, but just give children the opportunity to grow up the way they all grew up, to grow up normal, without any division, any discrimination or any humiliation. I think it's enough for everyone to see what a colleague of Pandurević has shown, to see how this looks. And it's not about any restoration or anything, it's about the artatur being placed on the playground at the school to separate the children. It's sad to see it that way. And that's why we'll never support these or similar laws that lead to further division. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8948	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8949	I thank the chairman. It is not a classic breach of the Rules of Procedure but to inform you in accordance with Article 7(4). The Rules of Procedure that I was forced to leave the session, given that it was precisely 11:00 p.m. that a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission was scheduled to discuss my Law on the suspension of fees, which I think is even more important, but to ask the College to ask the College of the House of Nations not to schedule the meetings of its committees when the House of Representatives is scheduled, because the formal even promoter here is the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8950	You can go as far as it goes. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8951	My colleagues and colleagues, all our honored guests, I warmly welcome you and wish for successful work, something more successful than it seems in the debate over this law. I will use the form of correction of the exact quote to say that it personally seems to me that my colleague Bećirović, by attacking my colleague Lovrinović, injured the Codex that we adopted at the last session of this Parliament. And let me also warn you that without wanting to use those models from the Codex type..., etc., but I appeal that here we talk about being, essentially, not talking about this kind of or similar way about colleagues. I will use the time I still have to say that it seems to me that this law has offered not to separate children, but to children and parents, which is constitutional law, the possibility of choice. The possibility of choices your parents often look for on the street, where they're looking. The possibility of a choice your parents failed to seek in the institutions of the system. This is one model of choice offered, I repeat what my colleague said, better we haven't seen, but we have seen a lot of demagogy on this subject today in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8952	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8953	Since the bill promoter was all the time he was talking about me, I don't know why, he obviously didn't understand what I said and aman my colleague Alah salameth, the children weren't alabases, so we're preparing asphyxiation in barbed wire with ethnic elites. And I hope you understand me now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8954	15 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8955	Please, I'm looking for an interpreter, I don't understand. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, yeah, have someone translate what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8957	Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8958	I'm just Mr. Kožul. I don't think so, I'd just, here's some Mr. Lovrinović saying whether he's been removed or not by OHR. I don't see what it's like to be a person, it's just facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8959	Debate, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8960	I thank the chairman. I can only sign what my esteemed colleague Pandurević said, as well as my colleague Bećirović Denis and Damir. This proposal is unfortunately a confirmation, and I appreciate that Mr Osmanović is here today chairing the Council of Education Ministers, where one conclusion was on the Council that he will work to remove the phenomenon of two schools under one roof. While, of course, this has not been resolved, and while the education ministers who come from the same political option are refusing to do something about it at all, we have a proposal from Mr. Lovrinović, which is no less segregation, where an outcast department opens up, where children's rights are absolutely ignored. I am even sorry that my colleagues who protect the BiH Constitution in the debates are silent today when a law on sports is proposed, and here we have immediately in your article 1 such a violation of the Constitution where you say that, of course, you list the constituent peoples and members of the national minorities. I remind you of the basic principles adopted in '95. the year in Geneva and New York, where it says - constituent nations and others, i.e. members and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you – did you want to show us here that members of the national minority actually stayed? And I want to ask you - where will the children whose parents plead as members of others, or who declare themselves as Bosanac and Hercegovac, i.e. Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is perfectly normal everywhere in the world that we are citizens of this country, not what we have today, and you are deepening this crisis in 2015. And I am concerned about the fact that you are the chairman of the Commission for European Integration, so I ask you, which Europe are you leading us to? In Europe where you will have children of three constituent nations, national minorities, and the rest you have totally ignored. I want to ask you - where does the Constitution of BiH say that the Latin letter is a letter from members of the Croatian and Bosnian, Bosniak people, and you say that it is a Cyrillic letter? I don't think you're even familiar with the development of language in Bosnia and Herzegovina where Cyrillic, or Bosančica, is even older than these today, Latin and Cyrillic letters. So, one unknown matter at all led to you suggesting to us in 2015 what you suggested. Such segregation, discrimination is further introduced in Bosnia and Herzegovina that I am amazed by the fact that there is a report that, yesterday from the media we had the opportunity to hear, that it is positive and more positive than it was in previous years, and 16 today we have a proposal on this session where children will be disabled from any education. Here I am, like, a German language and literature teacher if I were to, say, translate some things into Croatian, because I have to translate some things on the board in front of students, and a student, I ask you – if I were to translate a German word into Croatian means that this student or student who is the native Bosnian or Serbian should go further to be translated because he doesn't understand me. So this isn't just about these groups of national cases. You are introducing that absolutely this generation that would be studied under your bill, if elected to this Assembly, we should have the cabin translators, because we didn't understand each other. And I see today and you don't understand Mr. Zaim Backović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8961	Thank you very much. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8962	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to speak on this subject, but in principle, when we open these issues in this House, let's get further away from each other and create unconscious problems and children who attend, at least where they successfully cooperate, participate, play, learn, learn, children and Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvar and all those who go to such schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I must say, to point out both the positive and the city from which I come that where there is political will there is no problem, in Srebrenica, so the children where genocide was committed, children successfully and very nicely, I have to use that expression, cooperate, go to school, play, etc., etc., and this can be an example to all those who do not want to be in different places in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A lot of money has been spent on reforming education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be good if we had the right to ask those who spent that money in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have reformed education for the past 20 years, which is the OSCE, how much money they spent, where these money went and what they have done for the past 20 years and how much they have divided us into this very important segment in society. Education reform in all countries is a major reform and it cannot be broken over its knees. And that's why I don't think even these proposed laws of my colleague Lovrinović can be placed this way in this House and can't be broken over my knee. They must cover a much wider spectrum of people, not to say one quality and public debate, because it should be said and told by all those concerned in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course I was once again intrigued by this because those from the OSCE, from the European Commission, are silent, are silent on the segment that is most important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The most important reason we know what generations we're going to have in the future is because it's going to be generations that are going to argue in homes like us, or it's going to be generations that are going to build this country. They're consciously silent. I know it's unpopular to call the international community in our country, but we have this obligation here and we need to call those, ourselves, but also those who have not successfully done their job. Why do I say that? Because these days we have current amendments to the Civil Service Act, so I've seen correspondences on television, all of them, all of them are really excited about what's going to happen to some assistant ministers, and no one from the OHR, no one from the OSCE, no one from the European Commission is wondering what's going to happen to a generation of kids who are currently attending schools under different roofs, different departments, etc., etc. It is a disgrace to us, but it is a disgrace to those who report today what is happening in our country, especially when it comes to education. And to make the trend even bigger, so in the Agenda, the European approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the EU does not have a letter that clearly defines this problem. Why? Because it may not be of interest to the large or the 17 who have their own interests in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it the interest of those who place it on us to continue to be divided in our country? These are the key questions that we need to answer here and ask all those who think or do not think well of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I ask you that these issues that concern and which are important should not be closed in this way. We need to open up space to talk about them, but citizens must talk about them, parents must talk about them, they must be talked about by teachers and students where these projects are successful in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who show that this is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8963	Thank you. The chairman, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8964	Thank you very much. Dear and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening very carefully, here while I'm running a session on this agenda point, and I don't see any reason why this item of the agenda, or the proposal that we have, uh, Mr. Lovrinović, is causing this kind of dissatisfaction on this subject. First of all, today's opinion of the Constitutional Commission on the constitutional foundation of this Law and the principles of this Law, we are not talking about the content of the Law at all. What my colleagues Lovrinović said was an attempt to make, and I see no reason why such a law for which Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the power of this Parliamentary Assembly, should be passed. And these are the suggestions that we are, in some way, to go into regular procedure and we have reason. What we cannot deny was not the intention or fellow Lovrinović, nor any of us, we accept Bosnia and Herzegovina even though we have the view that it is arranged, its political one, I do not want to open the question here at all. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country of three constituent peoples and others living in it and each nation has the right to its own language and education. In that sense, I would not like to open and talk about some who speak here, who, for the purposes of daily policy, plead today anyway, but I am free to say that I didn't understand their language today, even though it was Croatian. Thank you very much. We have Nikola Lovrinović, this is probably not keeping the agenda. Here you go, not keeping the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8966	But I have three over there those... 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8967	Wait a minute, please, I asked you, you didn't understand me, Mr. Lovrinović, if you want to go off the agenda, you can go there, and as far as correcting the wrong quote you have two.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8968	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8969	But in that case, you'll apply. Lazar Prodanović correcting the wrong quote. Sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8970	The Honorable Madam Chairman. My remarks refer to a respected colleague, Sadik Ahmetović. He said excellently when he spoke, therefore, when we talk about the debate on the rights, therefore, of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to use the language of the constituent people and the national group of subjects. But what amazes me, therefore, is that we have no sensibilities. Mostly when we talk about how we are at risk, how one representative of the constituent people is threatened or by other or national minorities, we generally don't see the problems that are happening. Therefore, production of complete intolerance and politicisation in each segment, therefore, of national groups of subjects, use of language and letters is unique to all in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I haven't heard anyone if they belong now once..., these days is a serious debate about one dictionary of one language, a language of constitutive people, I haven't heard anyone seriously warn that this is the area with which the most possible abuses of intolerance are possible. These days, one of the biggest fair events, the Book Fair in Belgrade, is being held in the region, and I am convinced that no one will count as a Srbin, nor Bošnjak, nor Hrvat, but that many will go to such a event, as it is in Zagreb. I recently read a great book, a colleague asked – where did you get the Croatian translation? I said – you know what, I read and translated into Serbian, but I must honestly say that I am fascinated by how the translator did it. How is it possible that we do not have tolerance because of the different feelings of jeopardizing one, the other or the third, how it is possible that we do not have the willingness to say that everyone has the right to use their own, therefore, principle groups of objects and their own language in that, but to say that deviations, let's say, in my language, are in any sense directed against one constituent people are not in the interest of the Serbian people. I am amazed that we do not have such assessments, and I believe that politicisation of any, therefore without the presence of an expert position on this simply introduces into doubt and the ability of the academic community of key experts in the field of language or national group of subjects to indicate that it is not only a deviation of what we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have achieved, so the equality of all in both entities, in each canton, in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but simply an introduction into the politicisation of people who could not be said to have an expert relationship. One more, one, one, one, one, I will finish, from the question that is being asked, is neither political nor expertly referred to in the language or letter of a thousand years ago. What if we were to talk so much about Latin, Roman Empire and so on, it has no arguments whatsoever. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8971	Thank you very much. Agent Diana Zelenika, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8972	I thank and warmly welcome everyone. I have to say, based on these discussions, I'm a little confusing. On the one hand, if you're looking for the possibility of using language and culture, it means something that's a constitutional category, it's called segregation. Again on the other hand, if it makes it impossible, we call ourselves discrimination. So what's the solution? Then what's the solution? I support what counterpart Ahmetović said, a broader public debate should be held. I didn't bring pictures as a colleague of Pandurević, but I might have an example a little nicer – two schools under one roof, it's done, we call the Old High School in Mostar, which is attended by my daughter, where we have one part of the course in Bosnian, one part of the course in Croatian. I don't see any segregation in this matter, because children according to the Bosnian plan and language are regular guests in my home. What's that segregation? I think we should teach our children, uh, equality and co-existence, and there's no segregation in my question. I have a bigger segregation if not, my colleague Backović will not be angry, but if a teacher speaks as one MP in the BiH Parliament, whom I do not understand, then how do you expect a Croatian or Serbian child to understand him, or vice versa. So, uh, I think it goes into both extremes. I don't see so much segregation, but also if someone takes away my right to speak in my own language, then I'm discriminated against. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8973	Thank you very much. Došanka, Majkić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8974	I'm sorry that my colleague Ahmetović isn't here, but I wanted to take the opportunity to ask him – until when we actually intend to invite the international community to be an arbiter in things that need to be solved in this House. So, Mr. Lovrinović has proposed a solution for which we will plead to press the key. It is the right of every MP to propose, did I not expect this much bile to be presented with his proposal? So, each of us has the right to take our stand, but I didn't expect it, first I didn't expect such a conductive, conducting attack because such a proposal came, so on a legitimate proposal to act in this way. And secondly, I did not expect that there is still no willingness in this Parliament to talk about key things, and that is the most diverse nature, it speaks right here, there is no other place to talk about these things, it does not exist. The Bošnjak are probably used to, until now, the international community has always helped and pushed a little to their side. Now that story is, it's slowly ending. And those who have been chosen to resolve the issue of these citizens will have to take responsibility to solve the larger problems that are related to the country's survival. So, I'm asking you to bring this discussion, which has really gone too wide and too long, to bring it to an end. We know we don't have the same attitude and look at these questions, but I also can't believe that with so much bitterness and intensity we attack the man who came out with his proposal. So suggest yourself other solutions if you have, to see how you're going to, how we're going to get through each and every one of us. I don't think that's right, and that I think this Parliament should be concerned about how in fact 20 is not able to talk on the subject of democratic parliamentaryism, no matter how delicate. So, I think that Bošnjak are enough to defend themselves and I think that colleague Pandurević doesn't need to help them, enough of them to defend the Bošnjak issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8975	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, non-compliance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8976	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8978	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8979	You have to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8980	Chairman, did you give me your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8981	Report sick, come on. Shall I speak to the chairman? It's amazing, so by the time the gentleman logs in, let's do what I do to him, so he slows down.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8982	Please, I can only comment briefly. If you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, the same thing, you both have priority over correcting the wrong quote. Since Nikola Lovrinović called, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8983	So, since it's simply impossible and actually what I suggested was only part of what concerns education reform, as Mr Ahmetović said. I agree with him that this is indeed a very broad topic and she, we have discussed now only the possibility of a part of these issues being solved, which have caused problems, caused problems for years and the beginning of this school year, but this is how it is. So, then we should, in particular, be surprised at the conversations and thinking of some colleagues who say they're also teachers. So if that's the case, then we should call the language one name, I can't be three official languages. So these are not any divisions, these are the details of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, to this someone has to answer, some colleagues have talked about what the education system will look like. I was just trying to solve a part of those questions. So, I was in Belgium recently, and I'm very familiar with what's going on there. So, simply teaching is studied in one official language, can't in five official languages, other solutions are sought in another way. If you're a teacher, you say they're out-of-state wards. It's not about out-of-state departments, so obviously you don't know the problem. But since it's not the law on the agenda, I can't answer all of it, because these are, therefore, extra classes, it has nothing to do with the 21st grade department. They're kids of the same school, in this bar proposal. Then you say where your child will choose. They'll pick wherever they want and wherever you want. So it is a problem for the child to choose, and the child cannot choose if he is not given the choice. aku his school in Sarajevo is only on one course plan and programme and language, then of course the child cannot choose. It's got to be entered where there is, there's nowhere else to go. But then, I don't want to talk about it all. So it's not true, Mr. Bećirović, that the building is divided, but the yard, what Miss Pandurević was saying. So a lot of facts that are incorrect, there's no time to talk about it. I'd like to open up on that subject. I won't be particularly offended if you don't accept this, but the state of education has not been resolved. Thus, the issue of using the official language in the teaching process has not been resolved, many issues have not been resolved. So this should solve sublegal acts such as curricula and program, pedagogical criteria,...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8984	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8985	The law would only give principles, nothing else. So, I too, that Mrs. Dušanka, thanked you, said, "I didn't believe this kind of anger spill could come out on some proposal, and there's no other suggestion." I'd like to hear it. And I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8986	Thank you very much, Mirsad Mešić, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8987	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At least twice today, in this case, Mr. Lovrinović, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. In fact, his 77th member explains that the debate on the agenda, or discussion outside the agenda, can be done only by you and by no means by an MP. So you're introducing a precedent that probably now offers us other MPs the possibility that after two replications, by correcting the wrong quote, we can get the word by breaking the agenda. Dale, I'm looking for your official position, did you hurt the Rules of Procedure and so that in the next period we could all talk about something at least three times when there's an opportunity. So, Mr. Lovrinović applied for a breach of the agenda, i.e. disrespecting the agenda, and he didn't actually talk about it at all, and you of course approved it. I'd like your statement on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8988	Thank you very much. I have just, Your Honor, heard from you first on the subject of non-compliance with the agenda and my debate was about all those MPs and commentaries. And that's how I said it, and at this point I have to say, really, my colleague Lovrinović didn't adhere to this application, which, of course, we're going to take care of, my intention is not to make any injustice among the MPs, but simply to stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is my obligation here. 22 Let us go further, the correction of the false quote, Mirsad Đonlagić, or the non-compliance of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8989	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. I also have to express my concerns and the dissatisfaction with the fact that the discussions here were not in line with what is the topic, or what is the agenda of this, or what is the topic of this point in line with the agenda. It has gone too far, a lot of bile spills, anxiety is present, and even here we have heard that Bošnjak are under the protection of the international community. If we continue to do so, we will not only solve any problems, but we will make a dozen other problems out of one problem. Of course, this one needs to be accessed studioically because it's an extremely sensitive issue, but it's still the subject of another debate. I would ask all my colleagues to refrain from these difficult words and this kind of spilling bile on this extremely sensitive subject, rather than us sticking to the agenda. It's the only way we can do something, everything else will, jumping out of the agenda, cause one avalanche of dissatisfaction, and there's no end to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8990	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8991	Madam Chairman. I volunteered a long time ago, maybe to channel this, so I saw it doesn't pay to wait on these discussions, better to move to that right side, to the replicas. I suggest the following things. Just by having a discussion like this, it shows that we really have a problem. And you don't have to run away from the problem. It's perfectly legitimate what man did. As legitimate as it is that I disagree with him, as he suggested, I don't think that's the way. And I suggest the next thing. We have a state, we have institutions, we have ministries, we have a Council of Ministers, we have a co-ordination of education ministers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have competent institutions to deal with this job. My proposal is next. So, to be in charge, to adopt a conclusion, to oblige the Council of Ministers to submit to us within 60 days, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the coordination of education ministers, information on the state of education of BiH with a special emphasis on the right to use language, the study of a national group of cases with some proposal for measures. It could be some material to open up discussions in every sense, the ones we've been leading today. Without it, I'm afraid we're all in the wrong direction. So please, let's channel it that way. Here's a concrete conclusion on how we can get out of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8992	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8993	Here comes my colleague. I wanted her, you and my colleagues from, who talked about a hundred-year-old language and you who said you didn't understand. The words I used are the words you will find in what are contemporarys, meaning in 200 years of literary modernity, Kočić, Nušić, 23 Andrić, Selimović, Krleža and imagine in the songs of Vladimir Nazor. No word I've used is beyond what I've told you. And it is true, they are part of the Bosnian language and are an integral part of the Bosnian language that is kept in the Franciscan monastery. And they used them, once again, as my colleague said a thousand years ago, Nušić, Andrić, Selimović, Krleža, Kočić and nazor. Well, now the bourum, here's what I told you, so check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8994	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8995	I'm sorry, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8996	Wrong. Thank you very much. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8997	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs. Majkić mentioned me in a context I don't want to quote, that I'm defending someone here. I here, Mrs. Majkić, did not mention any national decree in my discussion, neither Srbin nor Hrvat nor Bošnjak. I defend the constitutional order. And I'm surprised that we haven't heard from you what came from the Republika Srpska government that this law is the most terrifying attack on the constitutional jurisdiction of Republika Srpska. That's the opinion of the Republika Srpska government. If Bog didn't give us this law came from the Council of Ministers, I think we'd have a midnight emergency session of the government of Željke Cvijanović and yesterday a session of the National Assembly, because the Council of Ministers is tearing down Republika Srpska's powers, I don't know, maybe they would say that. So really that comment that someone here is defending themselves, defending only constitutional jurisdiction and nothing else, Mrs. Majkić. And I don't want us to have two schools under one roof in Republika Srpska, because by the end of the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling, the General Court in Sarajevo's ruling says there is no discrimination in Republika Srpska. I don't want to bring her in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8998	Thank you very much. I ask all MPs to abide by the agenda. Dušanka Majkić, correcting the wrong allegations, and what they apply for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u8999	I just want to say for a little while. How will we defend or not defend and what we think about this law will be said when we vote. I don't really have a need, and in the end, we talked about the principles of this Law. But my point was that my colleague Pandurević was speaking to the citizens of Travnik. I think that the citizens of Travnik have someone to turn to and do not need to address Mrs Pandurević, who was elected to the Republika Srpska area. It's really unprincipled and unusual. So in that sense, it was my finding, and we'll all decide when we vote on this. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9000	Thank you very much. Senad Šepić, did she stay or is it a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9001	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9002	Fall back, check out. I don't see any more people on the record right now. I am concluding the debate, Borislav Bojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9003	I'm sorry, I didn't wear glasses, replica. You see, colleagues Majkić, and members of all constituent peoples live in Travnik, including Srbin. So we are also interested in the state of education and in Travnik. There are Pazarević, who are an old Serbian family and many others, who are very interested in how education in Travnik will be addressed. Therefore, the remark you made to your colleague Pandurević is not even close. That is not how I expected you to react.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9004	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2014, BiH Presidency material The report was submitted in procedure 29.06.2015 in accordance with Article 22. Law on the financing of BiH institutions. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on the Report 19.10.2015. The commission did not accept the report and referred it to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9006	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, warm greetings and I want a successful session today, and that in the course of the session we have a more correct debate, namely that we are without emotion discussing very important issues which are of the interest of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institution for 2014 does not differ significantly from the 2013 Budget Implementation Report. The reason is that this is the administrative budget serviced by 75 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 22,393 employees in those institutions. 25 What might well point out is that, in addition to the revenues that are related to, in addition to the incomes that are on a separate account of the indirect taxation administration, that is, income from the single account of the Directorate for indirect taxation for the financing of BiH institutions is a characteristic that we have somewhere around 27 million total dedicated funds and funds that are donations for certain projects. And not realising these dedicated funds from the past years creates a surplus that, we could say, is both a Krakterist and a long-term repeat of surpluses, both this and the last budget. I, at the Commission's Budget and Finance session, made an observation of the technical nature, and it refers to the fact that the tables in this Report are not marked in accordance with the chapters described in those tables. So for example, Chapter II Revenues, receipts and financing of the budget of BiH institutions for 2014, it is said that total revenues and support for the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in 2014 and Table 1 (a), which is wrong. I emphasized that, Chapter XIII of Part 1 (a) should stand, because in the same chapter we have Table 1. A review of the income of receipts and financing, which is not the table set out in this attitude, so that there can be some confusion when reading the execution of the Budget which the tables are about. And the same mistake is repeated in all chapters. So, I point out that, since it is not corrected, that this report is not corrected as I pointed out at the Commission's budget and finance session, I ask that the Ministry of Finance declares in the future, that it accepts the statement or that it does not stand. Here the biggest difference between the budgets 2013 and 2014 is in non-tax revenue and they are in this report, i.e. the implementation of the Budget and shown, and therefore it is important to indicate that this difference relates to the revenues from the issue of personal documents and registration plates. So, by 20.89 million KM, these revenues have been increased, which I don't think is a good trend. So if we want to increase revenue in the budget then we will impose new revenues on citizens by our decisions or legal decisions, in the sense that they are obliged to replace their documents and pay the replacement very expensively, so that we have increased non-tax revenue. Also a very important item in tax revenues and fees is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's administrative tax revenue, and they are due to the termination of citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So 1.161.010 KM is income for this kind of tax. This is an indicator, in my opinion, very much, of the difficult socio-economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, doubts about the perspective and future development of our country, and a large number of our citizens submits a request for the termination of citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I believe that this is a long-standing phenomenon which we currently do not have an answer to, and therefore I suggest that the Council of Ministers review contracts with the countries in the region, which impose the obligation for our citizens to give up their working status in neighbouring countries. Chapter — The revenue from special fees and taxes shall include the revenue of the Civil Aviation Directorate, which shall be the revenue of the Preflight, which shall be made by the Civil Aviation Directorate through the collection of fees for the provision of air navigation route services. There is no comment here on why these 0 KM revenues, although all other revenues are potentially an increase or a reduction in these revenues. We know we've had a debate in this House about these revenues, that there's been a public hearing, but since this is a drastic difference in the sense of failing to make these revenues, I think the same thing needs to be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9007	Thank you very much. 26 I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations 2014 of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions The report was submitted in procedure 29.09.2015. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on the Report 19.10.2015. The report was accepted and sent to a further parliamentary procedure. The commission proposed adoption of the sitting conclusions to the House. 1. The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to analyse in detail the content of the 2014 audit report and to submit within 90 days to the House of Representatives the Action Plan with precise responsibilities, the holders of activities and deadlines, for the implementation of the audit recommendations under the Financial Audit Report, reports on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2014 budget. 2. The House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to submit the draft law on the BiH Institutions Budget and International Obligations for 2016 within the deadline foreseen. I'm opening a debate. Predrag Kožul MP, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9009	Thank you. Since this same report from which you have now read the conclusions, it finally states that the president of the Predrag Kožul Committee is in charge of reporting to the House, I will take a few words to refer to these two conclusions as to why they are like this and use the time for a brief discussion. So, the first conclusion where we were really looking for serious efforts to address audit deficiencies, or also to implement audit recommendations, on one occasion, I will perhaps make an example that seems striking and typical to me in the Budget to explain. We formally have surpluses in the budget, so incomes are higher than expenditures. It's really perhaps one of the few budgets of those 100 and some of the budgets that we have at different levels within our country, which is fortunate to be in surplus. When we look at the structure of that surplus, we will see that a relatively large surplus has been transferred and a particularly surplus is realized in a way that one or two items in a very small percentage are realized. These are capital investments and capital grants. Capital investment was realized by 25%, when we are still focusing on building purchases there is a realisation of 16%. Capital grenades are in realisation equally below 50%. Why am I saying this? Because these capital investments are very interesting to us. We often talk on commissions, including this Parliament, about renting, rents that are relatively large and precisely those capital investments in buildings, for which there are available funds, would have two good effects. First, they would reduce the amount and level of these rentals and most often the rents may also cover some credit rates, if these are credit assets within this budget. The second reason, 27, is relatively large funds that would have been invested and spent, and for that, it seems, within these 70-ac authorities at the state level, a slightly greater effort should be made. So these funds are one of the kind of small ones that I'm dealing with, so to speak, relatively small, but one economic branch that may be within this country in the most difficult position seems very important to me. And that is why I especially appeal to this kind of effort, that this and the recommendation be realized, but that these capital investments go slightly better over time. The second conclusion is that we, as Parliamentarians, would indeed, really be able to reason with the Committee, and I believe that it is a resonance here, and within that, we would like the budget to go to all of those planned steps that are foreseen in the adoption of the budget, so that simply, what, for the last time in the last budget, we didn't have the opportunity and the impact on this Budget and in the discussions, and in the amendments and all possible procedures. This year's budget is ongoing because of the reasons we have adopted the instructions very well here and here we expect the Council of Ministers to have those very procedure for the planned steps in which this Parliament will take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9010	Thank you very much. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9011	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since it's about... reviewing, it's necessary to say, if you look at the previous one, so you have to look at it a little bit, that we have some imagery, or like we have copy pastes from year to year. Here, now I'm going to speak the language that's mine and since you say you don't understand, I'm going to ask you for an interpreter. I will speak the language that belongs to my people. Here we are as if we are the abahias of what the achik can't see, but the iluk we are ready to take. We're attacking each other, but most of all, we're attacking each other. Hey, guys, what's wrong with us? Anathema or something? Asli was not seen of the ashiking of the azo, the ato, the note, and let the people die. The people of Aspra, and the rulers of Shorvan. The rulers dive their Ataris, and as such, their archaics are only right. To the people as much as possible It's more durable. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9012	...warning, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9013	I'm absolutely in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9014	On the agenda is point 9. Report of audit carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9015	So I'm talking about reviewing and talking. So everything I said is about the negatives in the audit. Any word, absolutely. And I don't understand why you're warning me? We read white people's craps that don't do any good. Benzer of the mirage. We think they're bielmes until they're running around with a brig on everyone who's messing around, they think there's enough kombur and they're calling for a ride ride. The saginas emperor, Latin, 28, you'll understand that, which swears to work in the interest of the regiment, ring like a pocket full of cvantics, and in fact, the bus is like a chastody of Honey. They're sending out bourbons that need to walk blindly until life passes by. The wrinkles have pierced our ears. It will be better. It's almost there. I'm still missing, so whoever's after you're after a better one. Gangluk is waiting. And what's a garage? So save yourself and save you what happens. ...afitimluk plays for the people. I don't understand if you'll let me speak. They're laughing, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9016	You need to assess why they're laughing at you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9017	Let them laugh. It's good to laugh, because then I'm going to say every word of this word, from which one is a writer and from whose people. Gigging while they're experiencing new, new, and new, mutual pranks. That the insan can't be analized. Canon carari echoes and they're ceramics hanging around and they're always next to the astal. Allah's salamit. What I was saying was directly related to the negative part of the revision and the words were taken from Krleža, Kočić, Nazor, Ivo Andrić and Meša Selimović, and they are all in the Bosnian language dictionary. It's just a piece. And here, I prepared that copy of those words, these writers, so I can give you, because one part of the heritage and the Serbian and one part and the Croatian language, but we keep changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9018	Representative Mirsad Isaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9019	Thank you, Chairman. I won't be long, so just a few words about this audit report. I think it would be necessary to say, to comment on the simple reason why these audit reports really cost this country very, very much. So a few million costs this report for auditors to make a report on 1,700 or 1,800 pages. The report, according to the predecessor, is repeated year after year, so budget users make mistakes, auditors record those mistakes, and then we adopt them or not adopt them. Apropo that and these previous two agenda points, in my opinion, have no particular purpose. Why? If we are talking about the execution of the 2014 Budget, the actors of these events, or the realization of this Budget, are not here. We don't have any sanctions. Tell me if we don't accept the execution of the Budget for 2014, what are the sanctions, what are they like if we accept them. So there is absolutely no difference in the implementation of the budget, or revision, etc., etc., of different reports, here in this Parliament, if, therefore, they are delivered here or if they are accepted or not accepted. What is, in my opinion, problematic in these audit reports is that certain budget users keep repeating the same mistakes. So the recommendations are repeated year after year. What's a sanction for all this? I was recently in Sweden, and the audit we were just doing on the Swedish project, and she donated that program, and I think that, I have to admit in one professional discussion, they were colleagues from parliament, people are not clear that the recommendations of the revision are not being respected. We just couldn't translate, people couldn't understand that something like that could happen. And with us, here in this case, let's say we have some, I think one of the 29 colleagues will discuss or not, but 160 recommendations that are not respected at all. So, 160, I'll be more specific 160 shorter, easier, or you'll be pursuing misdemeanors. And we will accept that report or we will not and what sanctions are or what the positive things are. So my discussion is going in the next direction, that this Parliament has reached some conclusions, and they used to be, so in this Parliament were once these conclusions, which said that whoever has a negative report, the audit report has been sanctioned, so it seems to me, uh, those who have been in this Parliament for a long time know that, by 10% representation or 5%, etc. I sincerely hope that those who repeat these same mistakes will bring them to this House and ask for at least one of them, that is the least we can do, to look for a programme to remove these mistakes, and to appear here before us and to publicly explain it. It is, therefore, in some ways and one of the sanctions and, of course, an opportunity for people to say exactly what they need to do. Here, I'd like to finish this, I think that's one of the suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9020	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Energy Efficiency in BiH Institutions", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was submitted in procedure 31.07.2015. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on the Report 19.10.2015. The commission accepted the report and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9022	Thank you, Madam Chairman. To tell you the truth, I expected a little more colleagues or colleagues to come forward on this issue because this is an extremely important issue. Just to remind myself that the issue of energy is very complex and that it is woven into the foundations of the EU, because the EU is created in the community, as it says, of steel and energy issues. We have a truly strange situation in our country, where energy and energy needs and projections of the development of the energy sector are not sufficiently taken into account. When I say that, first of all, I think that this question, as it has been, as the revision has found, by the way, that this is an extremely good document and I think I like it because it gives information to those who don't deal with this problem that they can understand if they read carefully what it says in this audit report. We have one... fact, while in Europe energy is gathering based on people's movements, we simply don't make sure that we save it, or spend it in a quality way and that energy we have. Although the EU has accepted commitments by 2020 that, in its agenda, it has given 3 times 20 per cent what it means to increase, reduce energy consumption, renewable energy sources, energy... and all the issues that are defined by it, we are not talking about it here. It just doesn't seem like any of us are interested in 30 or we just don't have enough knowledge about it. So I think the state should be an example. And even these nine institutions that are covered by this audit report have to take enough care of energy consumption, because that's the problem we're going to be facing. Energy will be getting smaller, energy demand will be increasing and energy will constantly become more expensive, it will never be cheap again. So, this framework obliges us to really prepare ourselves in detail and quality. I think that, above all, as a conclusion on the basis of this audit report, I should propose this conclusion, I will write it, that the Council of Ministers be in charge that, based on the findings of the auditors on this subject, simply create a programme based on which the institutions of the state will behave, primarily the institutions of the state, to simply accept this as one serious task and to take this task seriously. Because it's one task that energy efficiency, it implies, first of all, to increase the effects without reducing energy consumption, and not like this, to throw energy away as it throws away. Well, go out to the street in Sarajevo and you'll see, and these mists and all that's going on is that question. But the state must be an example and a guide to solving this problem and a serious approach to this problem. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9023	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9024	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm going to try to speak the language you understand now, so they don't interrupt me because I was just talking about the revision. So at the next points I'm going to say, I have to do this, since my previous colleague was talking about efficiency. The best example is, and it would be necessary, I suggest to the Council of Ministers that they require those maintenance services, if anything at least this building, access the divorce closet and automatic regulation and include it. We are currently in a room where the temperature is above 25 degrees, which is against all projected standards for this room. I speak metrically because at the signing of that project there is a Zaim Backović, Mr. Denise, and this is inappropriate. The waste of energy that exists in institutions is amazing, you know that. And in order to talk about it, it is necessary that those who manage to have household relations do so. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It is, a wave, forgetting to add 150 watts to every man sitting here, forgetting to add as many watts as it is on these lamps, and it goes energy into nothing. And it's going to become, Đonlagić, which is why it's getting more and more expensive, because of pointless waste, but everywhere, it's not just about institutions. And the revision as it works, which has done energy efficiency, has given a great review, has given everything good, and again that, but that's consumption according to the norms. Not in this one, I'm talking about this building now, the temperature in the wet knot being 27 degrees, not the bathroom, not the bathroom, I'm talking about the wet knot. The hallway can't be 2731 degrees, and this is the current 28th. We're just in a tropical climate, we just like to spend our energy. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9027	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27.08.2015, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the College of the House to establish the agenda and, for the longest time every 60 days, establish a mandatory item of the agenda titled: Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment on the European path and level of compliance with BiH's commitments under the BiH Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda for BiH for the period 2015-2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda of the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives’ The House College has appointed the competent authorities to consider the Joint Committee on European Integration. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 28.10.2015. The proposal during the debate at the Committee's session has modified the initiative so that it now states: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives undertakes the House's College to redefine the mandatory agenda item titled: Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of BiH's commitments on the European path and the level of compliance with BiH's commitments under the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda for the period 2015.2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda at the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives." The commission accepted such a modified initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Senad Šepić's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9029	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. 32 It will be a little difficult out of this, as it is called, this... and these certain poetics now in some... politics or some European integration, but I really want to be brief. The first thing is that I think that Parliament should be given back the role or give Parliament the role that I think Parliament should have, especially in European integration issues. This one here is the House, and the other home, the House of Peoples, together we have done it, 57 MPs, one day we have all been determined that we are ready to work on the European path to the end. And in that sense, I believe that, as Parliament, we should play an active role in these very processes. I've suggested, and I've already discussed this more than once, how I believe that at these sessions we should have a mandatory debate, in which dynamics, in which continuity. Since so far there has been no special willingness to do so I have proposed this initiative again. So, we have, at this point we have a reform agenda that all levels of government have accepted, some of them have already prepared action plans. That would mean now that these action plans need to be realised. So, I believe that the BiH Parliament and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be actively involved in all these processes, and that is why I have proposed one such initiative. Since I was in the session yesterday, okay, I'm going to wait for the consultations, so since yesterday at the Joint Committee on European Integrations I realized that there is still no honest one, it seems to me, the willingness that we are seriously dealing with this issue, in the sense that when something, uh, we have committed ourselves here, when we have taken action, that we are going to work to make it happen, and not only are we going to say that we are for it, and then we are going to give up some who, either have no knowledge, or have no capacity, or they have no readiness, or they are not going to do what we here in a political sense have shown our positive will. Yesterday after I submitted the initiative that this, that this item of the agenda should be defined as a report and after I saw that there was no readiness for it, I modified this proposal to be, instead of 60 days to be, every 90 days and to be the information of the Council of Ministers which should, in a certain way, imply a proposal for measures. If at this moment we have a readiness for one such step, here I accept this proposal from the Joint Commission on European Integration, with this, here, I am now announcing that this after this story that refers to a kind of information on a regular basis every three months, should go on and on, and I will continue to work in that sense on this justice, to become regular binding, regular and binding reports, so if you want and the discussions that we will continue every two or three months to do, not just a representative home but a joint, as it is called, these joint sessions of both Houses that will be dedicated to the most direct fulfilment of our terms and what we are, each of us, every institution, every agency, every agency, call whatever you want, in the system of state, this, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what each of us is doing in the direction to meet these conditions and speed of our European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9030	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9031	I thank the esteemed chairman. I had to get back to you because my colleague Šepić said we didn't have members of the Committee on European Integration who felt that kind of strength for what he thought. However, we have all of this as stated in our opinion agreed with him, so we have considered the subject of being called a report or information, a report carrying some sort of consensus, no information. The mechanism hasn't caught fire yet. So this is absolutely what we agreed with him. It doesn't stand, so the members of this committee, so they're not doing their job because they're not committed, at least I haven't felt it as chairman before. We held 8 sessions, we held, we hold the 2nd session of our part of the European, this Committee for the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we hold a Parliamentary Forum, and we have carried out many activities. So it doesn't exactly stand out like this, so I'd ask Mr. or my colleague Šepić not to use, uh, words like this, 33, because yet the Commission is doing this for the time being, my impression as chairman is still doing its job properly, and maybe even more than that. That's my grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9032	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9033	...maybe, if the chairman of the Commission didn't understand me well, so I was saying that there was no readiness for the original text as I suggested. So then we corrected it together, and that's why I said it -- I accept that at this point it's that step, but we're going to keep doing it in the sense that the more we get serious about it in the next period. I want to say that I think that Mr. Lovrinović, uh, does his job well in terms of being active as chairman of the European Integration Commission, see how hard he is and, in that sense, I want to say that, here's what I can see, a man gives a maximum of himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9034	Thank you very much. Nikola Špirić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9035	Madam Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. In fact, I am here one of the most often asked this question, that strength is given to both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers when it comes to the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and whether there was no will or no understanding, anyway. Today we have some grades that are purely political in one, I would like it to be so real that this progress is seen,... the progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, but I'm afraid it's not much of an empty political story, and that would be the greatest damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why I think that this conclusion by my colleague Šepić is worth the attention, but I would be willing to make a correction of this initiative in the sense that we have one session of the House of Representatives every month and logically it would be that the first item of the agenda, if we are really committed to all the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this progress is strongly measured, that every time we have one item of the agenda where the Council of Ministers will inform us about the steps we make on the European path.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9036	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9037	Well, no, neither will your initiative, neither will mine. Last time I suggested, we're talking about an action plan that was never the subject of a debate here in Parliament. So I can accept that anyone, that college every time you put that point. Sometimes the Council of Ministers will have something to say to us, because they're not all obligations on the Council of Ministers, sometimes they'll say... other levels of government do so, so that we have one... that we can at least keep track of. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're going to expose the Council of Ministers to an unnecessary debate in 60 days. Every time there's any news, any 34 progress, after a brief presentation of the chairman or the ministers he's in charge of, that we have that information. So we're gonna take off some tension that's unnecessary. But 60, 90 days, occasional sessions, you know whenever thematic sessions are to cause unnecessary replicas and debates, but if each time is the first point then we'll get..., there's news, there's no news, measurable progress towards the EU or not measurable, or we only have political assessments. Any avoiding it to be the first item of the agenda actually says that we have one public perception that we create that... And that's why I'm going to be the regular first point of every session, because we have it monthly, and I guess we could accept that principle sometime, if that's okay with you. If you don't agree with me, it's not a dispute for me these 60 days, but then we'll have, like, 90 days, but then we'll have an unnecessary fight. And when we get used to Parliament getting a report every session, it can be written, it can be oral exposure, however, then I believe that both political story and field will follow what is progress or what is not progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9038	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9039	Oh, this is more like a respectable fellow Špirić. So, I was one of those Šepić who asked my colleague to extend this deadline to 90 days. For the simple reason, we know what procedures are, while the Council of Ministers does, should make a report every session, whether something was done or something at the session, becomes essentially pointless, and I'm afraid it would become a matter of politics here. Especially since we all know that in the reform agenda, the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, I don't know if it's 2-3% of the reform agenda. It's mostly entity and canton jurisdiction. And I think that if we need to have these action plans somewhere, reports at each session, they are the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the Federation Parliament and the cantonal parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9040	Thank you. Milica Marković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9041	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. I will comment very briefly on this initiative, but before I say a few of my thoughts about the initiative I would like to confirm, as a member of the Commission for European Integration, what my colleague Lovrinović said, that the Commission has indeed stood behind this initiative in full capacity, with the fact that, for example, the promoter has twice been unable to attend the Commission. The Commission continued to deal with this initiative until the moment, it was yesterday, when we all helped to get the form it had received and to really stand behind the initiative in full capacity. And here, she stopped. So what we are discussing today about the initiative is largely, and, let me say, the merit of our commission that has done its best to get this form it has received. As far as the initiative itself is concerned, so I respect what fellow Šepić is initiating one such topic and discussion for our Parliament and I appreciate it as his engagement and contribution to this 35 story of Euro-Atlantic integration really getting the full form of it, both in the context of the House of Representatives and in the context of the Council of Ministers, because he accepted yesterday as a promoter that this information was prepared by the Council of Ministers and delivered to the House of Representatives. And of course, now that we get the contents of this information that we hope to get in this term as planned, the question of the Council of Ministers' activity on this plan is being raised and opened. And I would not agree with the previous findings of colleague Pandurević that they should, that, in fact, the grotesque activity lies on entity and cantonal institutions. Here's to saying it is, but in an initiative like this today, it's said that information will be obtained from the Council of Ministers. So, at the beginning of this year when the Council of Ministers entered into its official mandate and the job that took place, we listened in a thunderous manner to the announcement that, I say, activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Euro-Atlantic affairs would be dynamiced to a large extent. We have witnessed that in the last six months these activities have gone very sloppy and that they are going quite passively. And here we have today the fact that, let's say, here's almost a year after the Council of Ministers is currently engaged we still haven't solved the issue of the coordination mechanism. Two, three days ago, we had a chance in the media to hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers who seems to have given me a question of journalists who were very fluid. So nothing could specifically conclude where the story came from and where there was actually a problem with the coordination mechanism. We expect to hear that in response from the Council of Ministers. And I want to say in the end that whether we have a quality and, I say, in full form of debate at the House of Representatives on this initiative, it is no longer up to Mr. Šepić or us MPs, depending on the Council of Ministers on what they will do, how much they will collect information and what they will show us at the moment when this point is on the agenda. So, as MPs, we expect, in fact, I will now say on behalf of the SNSD Club, we expect this information, which we deliver, to be respected quarterly, to be on the agenda as it is, but to make sure that the Council of Ministers doesn't make it an empty story, what Mr Špirić mentioned, not to be an empty story, and not to be the story that we're going to argue about here, but to be really specific information, the data that has been done, how much has been done, and how far we've come on this plan. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9042	Thank you very much. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9043	Well, I'm using, of course, the possibility of this new technique that we've been given, so maybe it's not a fault. And there is no need to really get into replicas, nor will I afford it, but I think that, my goal was, therefore, to get a report, what is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to all deal with their own, so... what is their action plan, respecting the constitutional structure. And we shouldn't be outsmart here, if there's a will, okay, if it's not okay again. I've been sitting on this side, I absolutely understand the position of the Council of Ministers and I don't envy them at all, but it's going to be very difficult after this ghastly announcement of never making a stronger progress. I'd like to talk about it. I don't think we're all sick in this country so someone can tell us that progress is the adoption of the agenda. I guess the realisation of the agenda will make progress measurable. And that's what citizens expect. I think this story of huge progress is more about covering some international activities than about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We need to have an open conversation. So I don't object at all to the Council of Ministers, but whether we're serious about the team or not. I don't see any reason to run 36 to be the first point of every session, as I don't mind and be every 90 days. Here, if you want half-years or a year, whatever you want. So, we, no matter what we are the opposition, should share these same values of life in this country. And I don't see any reason to argue about it, and I don't see any reason to mention here other levels of government that have their own agenda obligations, if it's consistent, and the action plan. We are interested, therefore, in what belongs to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly and in being useful to the Council of Ministers. Here, just so much, so he suggested he change if he wanted to. She's been gone, she won't be, I can see, she won't be today, and I don't mind that at all, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9044	Thank you. Representative Ahmetović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9045	Well, no... there's no replica here. Since these terms are being talked about for 60, 90 days, and we do not have the right role of Parliament when it comes to it, or we have not clearly defined it when it comes to the European path. I think we ourselves need to clearly define and what our role is. If you just look at what the Croatian Parliament was doing, because it is the freshest member of the EU, then you can see that Parliament's role was very huge, especially the role of the opposition in the European path of Croatia. It seems to me that, at the head of the parliamentary committee, she was then a positionary and the current foreign minister of Croatia, Mrs Vesna Pusić. This is such an important issue – the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that in 3 months, or at 4, we should have a special session of Parliament to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards the EU. Without bringing anyone into such a position or such, we must put the state in a position that has clearly defined when it comes to its European progress. No matter how angry anyone will get here between us or possibly in the Council of Ministers, that's our responsibility. So I think that we have to have before we can set these deadlines for 60, 90 days, we have to have an action plan to write about and within what time to be able to track whether it's 60, 90 days or, I don't know, more and what's done and what's not done. I think we're outsmart here and we're talking casually about whether it's 60 or 90 days. If we have an action plan, then we can clearly define what time interval it is when it comes to the Council of Ministers' own report to this Parliament, and about the progress and fulfillment of our obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9046	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9047	Also a replica, so it's not the correct quote, but here we don't have that icon here. It is not a controversial proposal nor Mr Špirić from the corner, a member of me as a committee for, the Joint Committee for European Integration. We also talked about this issue at a similar conclusion by Mr. Šepić two sessions ago and we said if we needed it, we could change the conclusions. So, if we need information to be missing every session, in 2016, we can, therefore, very easily change this conclusion and suggest 37 that we have it at each session. So the conclusion isn't the law, so I don't know what kind of activity he's going to change. However, yesterday we discussed and here are colleagues and colleagues who are members of the Committee who will confirm this to me, and that the Council of Ministers and Parliament, of course, is very visible this time in the implementation of the SAA, so it will also have to be visible to this Committee, but there are so many mechanisms provided for by the SAA and our demands, and we, as the Committee for European Integration, are putting the points on the agenda, so without the College giving us any task, we will seek communications with all the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina that deal with European integration and we will choose the topics ourselves, so perhaps send the College to you. So there will be a lot of work to be done not only to get involved in reports that may sometimes not even know what they're actually telling us, but I hope the Council of Ministers will, first of all, and other agencies and directors, pour us into the affairs that are foreseen in the Agenda. Well, let's just say we're going to get a plan or action plan that we're going to talk about very quickly. So, I hope every session has something from the Agenda of Reform, or the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9048	Thank you very much. Here, I'm just going to take a little note of what everyone gets up to correct the false quote you're saying is not that, but it's a replica and it's a matter of this technique. This is not a matter of technique, this technique is adapted to our Rules of Procedure. Next to correct the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9049	I thank the chairman. You've made the contents of my intervention quite clear. So this debate on this agenda also tells us how much we are here, in the highest legislative body, able to complicate both the simplest initiative and the most common conclusion, and we are even having some big debates about it. As the SDP Club of BiH, our position is very clear and clear, so the opposition position in this Parliament, but when it comes to Euro-Atlantic integration, we do not think there should be a big difference between the position and the opposition. In this case, the SDP Club will support the proposal of this initiative by MEP Šepić, and we have no problem if the promoter, Mr Šepić, accepts this proposal from fellow Špirić that instead of 60 days, we have one such report on the table every 30 days. I don't think any opposition MP in this House has anything against either version that we have, is on the agenda. However, it is clear, by the way, that in all parliaments both in Europe and in the world, as well as in this, the methods and techniques of action of the position and opposition are of course not always the same. Therefore, I also wonder between the lines whether the ruling parties are using the possibility that opposition parties do not have. This is before they set one point as a part of the agenda to take advantage of the possibility that through their representatives in the College of the Representatives' House, in the Council of Ministers of BiH, etc., they discuss these things and spare us possibly these discussions at Parliament. Perhaps, on the basis of some talk by the Council of Ministers led by Mr. Zvizdić,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9050	Time. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9051	It's accepted without an initiative like this, but if the time is up, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9052	Thank you very much. Debate, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9053	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and the deputies, colleagues and colleagues. And at the very beginning, let me say, here is my colleague Bećirović, who said, we will certainly support this initiative by colleagues Šepić. We consider it useful for this Parliament, as we are witnessing that Parliament is at least at the level of information, and not only that, decommissioned from the very important processes that are happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will remind you only of the story of the protocol, the judiciary where we had the opportunity to see that the three justice ministers signed the Protocol, and then the governments in which they took part were being embellished from the fact that it was not the government's position, including the Council of Ministers. Not to mention the coordination mechanism, that we are not talking about the agenda itself at that stage when it was agreed, so here is my colleague Lovrinović, who led the Commission for European Integration, used his position to call the chairman and to clear up whether or not this Agenda exists at all at that time when it happened. Therefore, the adoption of this initiative is not only, in my opinion, useful because of its content, but I consider it an initiative which restores the dignity of Parliament and involves Parliament in what Parliament should actually be involved in itself. The Commission for European Integration has supported this initiative, although we have diluted it a little, but it is true that we have agreed to this proposal. It was acceptable for me for the Council of Ministers to report to Parliament and for Parliament to accept or reject the Council of Ministers' report. However, the majority in the Commission considered this to be a short period of time for making up the reports, that the Council of Ministers may not have that capacity, and that it was sufficient to provide information. Okay, well, if the motionor has accepted that there's information, I'll accept it, but I really think this is one in a series of captainship tests for the Council of Ministers to run this part of the job. On the other hand, the discussion that different levels of government have different obligations in implementing action plans is correct. It is difficult to measure now who has more work to do in which area, but there is also one understanding in the Commission for European Integration that we will collect this information in different ways. 'Cause, look, we're not talking about ingenuity here anymore, and no one has the ambition to take someone away from them. We are talking about that we as MEPs should be informed about what is going on in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the European path. When you go somewhere to a meeting in Brussels, people ask you a question about the implementation of the Action Plan, whether in a canton or an entity, that you have information, that you don't wonder what's going on there. So, I think that is a good thing, too, when it comes to the work of the Commission for European Integration, which will provide that kind of information, not only to its members, but also to all Members of Parliament. I agree with my colleague Špirić that the adoption of the Agenda itself is not progress. All of us, including him, participated in numerous agreements that remained only on agreements, which were not implemented, which were characterised at the moment of reaching agreement as progress. That is why I also think that this initiative has a purpose, to see how fast, how 39 action plans are implemented and whether there is an abuse of the European Agenda in terms of different interpretations of the European Commission and domestic authorities. We had a conversation with Mr Vigemarka a few days ago at the Parliamentary Forum for European Integration, where, among other things, the issue of the Law on State Service in the Federation, where domestic authorities interpret it in one way, the European Commission in another way, and only what is true is that it is part of the Reform Agenda. In this case, I believe that the Reform Agenda has been abused by domestic authorities, in order to achieve a political goal. This is also what the European Commission has sent, in this case to the Federal Government, where it asks them to stop the process, to reconsider, because it says in the European Agenda – we will go to legislation reform in the area in co-operation with sigm and the World Bank. And then the law came out of the drawer, which no one looked at in the European Commission, and when they looked, they sent a letter to stop. So, it's multiple, to end this, the importance of adopting this initiative. If most in this Parliament are willing to accept the conclusion of fellow Špirić, it is also acceptable for us, but most importantly to achieve a new dynamic, when it comes to Parliament becoming an active participant of important processes, which, unfortunately, I cannot say that it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9054	Thank you. Representative Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9055	I'll just take a minute. It's good that the Reform Agenda was adopted, it's good that there are action plans we haven't seen, so that's good. And we're not even doing it for Ambassador Vigenmark, we're doing it for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But why I asked it to be the first point in every session, because our sessions here have become empty. It is illogical to talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina's European progress if the material of the European Integration Directorate was not the point of the Council of Ministers' agenda in the last two and a half months. What progress are we talking about? And Parliament won't know, it won't inform itself. So we can give time to the Council of Ministers half a year, a year, it is not a dispute, but we must take together responsibility for the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in order to carry it, we need to talk about it, not accuse the Council of Minsitarians. So, two and a half months, with the assessment that we have strong progress, two and a half months, no agenda item from the Directorate was the subject of the Council of Ministers' debate. What will Parliament talk about? So there's no Council of Ministers, I've been to the place of people, there's nothing out of support. I've had it for a long time, but we've had a stand. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, barren support is this when we say we'll give them 90 days, 100 days. I don't mind if I stay 60 days, but I think that we Parliament are aware of our responsibilities, to insist that each next session be a report. If there's progress or no progress, let's see if we've done our part of the job and the Council of Ministers. Now if we spread it to other levels of government, we open up political issues. So let's take our responsibility, whatever the conclusion is. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9057	Thank you very much. I don't see any reports at this time. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Appointment of three ombudsmans for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina On 14.10.2015, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a report on the establishment of a list of candidates for the appointment of three ombudsmans for BiH Human Rights. According to the order of the rank list, we will read the following three names: Ljubinko Mitrović, Jasminka Džumhur, Nives Jukić. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9059	Well, I'll try to be as short as possible. In fact, at the meeting of this committee of ours, I am in charge of being a rapporteur on this agenda point on this esteemed House. I don't think I have the need to take that away from you for a while, unless there are already some questions that require an answer, because in this report, you've got everything, so the order of candidates we're proposing, or the score list and everything that's been going on. I can only express my personal satisfaction, and I think members of the Committee, that it's been through everything, according to us, in the business atmosphere, how we made this Rules of Procedure, and that everything was fine. It's envious to the level of knowledge of what the chosen ones will do, and we weren't very comfortable to define ourselves, but here we are, therefore, making our own rank list. It's up to you how this House concludes, so to accept our proposal or to someone else. Thank you. If there are any questions, I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9060	I would like to thank Agent Lovrinović. We thought it was like in the report, so we didn't offer, but here, you explained it to us. Representative, you've given up on her. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9061	Thank you. I was a member in this Commission before the Joint Commission on Human Rights. It is true that Mr Lovrinović has just said that the procedure has indeed been in progress in this Commission as we have agreed, and it is true that the members of the Commission were, both the chairman and members, in the mood to supplement and amend the Rules of Procedure, 41 where this contest was carried out transparently, in a way that even the candidates who appeared, and several times who participated in earlier competitions, have shown their satisfaction by seeing that from the beginning of the competition to the end, everything is transparent. What is very indicative of me as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights is that by law everyone can apply to this contest, so those of the constitutive peoples can apply, as well as those of the others. The fact is that in addition to the competition that was held for the Higher Education Agency, no one in the ranks has competed at any competition in this Parliamentary Assembly. It is also an indication that they would not have any support or support from those members and members of certain committees who do not consider this House a House of People, but a House of Representatives and the home of all citizens, and they would not have taken perhaps in an assessment of what language they speak and how they plead. We were warned of this by a candidate who had been to the competition. She said that, I'm competing, here's a paraphrasing, to a place where I'm going to fight and protect human rights, and you've forced me to plead in your competition material, or applicative list. It's my human right not to plead and leave it as my personal matter. What some colleagues said they had the right to ask. Of course they're right, but the candidate was, and she even said, here's what I'm saying, this is how I degrade myself, and I'm aware of that because it actually works in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is an indication to me, in fact, that today, although we, here is Mr., or my colleague Šepić, has returned us to the Reform Agenda, and I will return us to the Reform Agenda, which we have all signed, where it says that from the day of the signing of the Reform Agenda we will choose by measureivity and expertise, rather than similarity. This list of ranks, with all due respect to individuals, is not it. Because when you see, if someone was doing a list of biographies, CVs, references, you'll see that a lot of stronger candidates and candidates have been, and the lists have been encrypted, that no name or name of a particular candidate or candidate is seen, we would today have even three ombudsmen or ombudsmen from one nation, because such candidates have been, that they simply come from one nation, so from all three actually nations. But what it shows is that this competition procedure is until the moment the members of this Commission withdraw to their cabinets, when they go to the vote, is actually doing what is familiar in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is being telephoned and re-elected by those who are closer to that particular party structure. It actually confirms that we have chosen, that today we will confirm someone who will be at the head of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution called an independent one. Here's another confirmation that she's not independent in any way. I had a need to get the public and you as an esteemed House, colleagues, colleagues, the Council of Ministers to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9062	Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9063	The Honorable Chairman. Since I'm a member of this committee, I'll only take a few of my visions very briefly. I was very pleased to work in this Commission, given the general miles that were in the Commission, means the relations that were in the Commission and how they were, how the public was involved in the Commission's work itself. I kind of agree with my colleague Maja. If we had the opportunity, of course I'm talking about my vision of this work and the way I've scored, if we had that possibility, but the law is 42 as it is, I'd probably have two candidates from Republika Srpska. Because people were really ready, there came extremely high-quality candidates, unlike this federal part, where, I think, I don't know why, but we didn't have adequate candidates in that weight, the level that came from Republika Srpska. Whether they had this at the moment the most interesting position so all those who were relevant applied, I say, an example of one from the Tuzlan region no one applied for this contest, which was so strange for me. But here, I say, the atmosphere in the work of the Commission was as it is, in my opinion, very positive. We have scored as we have scored, whether this Parliament will adopt or not, and what I suggest, which I think as one is a failure, is definitely about the Law on the Ombudsmans themselves and the way they work, where they, individual candidates, pointed to certain failures and shortcomings... because these things were also of interest to us, that this process should speed up and bring these things to an end, only to the Law on the Ombudsmans themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9064	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, agent, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9065	I thank the chairman. Well, you see, no one from the SBB took part in the work of this Commission, so we didn't have a chance to see, or hear, or hear candidates within that Commission's work. Reading the documentation is one thing, hearing the candidates, asking them certain questions is another. But what's noticeable, not only about this, but also all the commissions when BHS are chosen at the same time, is that we almost always have BHS, HSB, SBH, SHB, so it doesn't matter now which, but mostly the first three are ranked so, and here we have 524, 523 and 511 points and then we come to fourth place 483 points. Look, the Probability Act would let that happen sometime. However, from the session to the session whenever we have the selection of three members we almost always have in this order. And, uh, I'm saying again, I'm really not in a position to say anything about any of these candidates, is that I wouldn't allow myself as someone who hasn't had a chance to talk to them as a member of the Commission, as a member of the SBB Club, either of us can say that. However, what is indicative is that we have two existing, or two existing members of the Commission, who are among the first three on the rank list and then we have a current member of the Commission who ended up in the eleventh place. Now the legitimate question is whether or not we had a member of the Commission who was wrong or something political. I really don't know anything about a man, I don't know if he belongs to any political option, whether or not, but I find it interesting for the current Commissioner to end up in the eleventh place and two current members of the Commission end up on the second and third, or among the first three. So I would really appeal that at least it wouldn't be this obvious, when these things are done, that we almost always have the first three BHS and I said already, it doesn't matter HSB, SBH, it means in one of those three combinations, but we almost always have this result, and then it comes to the House of Representatives and it's still explained as if it was hard to choose. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9066	Thank you very much. Borislav Bojić is a representative, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9067	I also need to say a few sentences as a member of the Komsija on the work of the Commission itself and the choice for which the Commission has defined itself. What I would say is that this time this Commission, when we offered the opportunity to present NGOs and tell them if you'd rank the candidates present to make the rank of the list. It would be completely identical to what the members of the Commission have scored. That's what they said at the session themselves, which I especially want to point out because of this transparency that we're talking about. So, as for the candidates and the influence of the political parties, I say to you that such an open discussion was conducted, i.e. the candidates had the opportunity to really illustrate all that they, as future Ombudsmans, felt that they would do in their future work on the protection of human rights. As for the candidates from Republika Srpska and what Arnaut mentioned, so very, very high-quality candidates were from Republika Srpska, they, I don't know the exact number now, I would have to go back, but everyone who came was really very, very high-quality, it was also found by the members of the Commission, so that this issue concerning the Ombudsman who had previously been from the order of the Serbian people, what was definitely this time progress, is generally known that this former Ombudsman was a member of the SNSD, I am fully convinced that the one who will now be chosen has nothing to do with political parties that make up the Alliance for change, because we all realized that it was really about one candidate who showed, not only what he ruled when it comes to human rights, what he did, as an academic man did, when it was about publishing works from that area. And finally, I want to express my satisfaction that I have had the opportunity to hear all those who have spoken about human rights issues and a complete agreement, complete openness and ultimately, and only the score, possibly that the može someone was cut off for some point or not, but in principle I believe that this score list is something that reflects, therefore, the very clear quality of what we had the opportunity to hear on the Commission itself, with the presence of all the representatives of NGOs and, of course, Maja Gasal, who was present on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights during the work of the Commission itself. Here, I just want to convey... impressions, not to make any kind of dilemma whether that process was carried out properly or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9068	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9069	I thank the chairman. Correction of the wrong quote sent to Mr. Bojić. If you have listened to me, and I know that you listen mainly, you have seen that I did not question at all, I explicitly pointed out that I do not know anything about people and that what you can read in papers is never the same as when you sit with them and as a member of the Commission ask them certain questions and hear what they have to say. So what I was saying was about the law of probability, that he would even allow in one case two, etc., but when from the session to the session when we have BHS, SBH, 44 HBS candidates, etc., that always the first three, almost always, I don't remember the example, end up like this. There's something that doesn't seem to fit the law of probability. That's what I said. And as for the current member of the Commission who ended up in 11th place, I just said that, I can't say again, I can't say anything about him, or who ended up in the first place or the second, fifth, non-important, I just want to say that then it looks like we've had a problem, or we've had him for the last five years if the current Member of the Commission has only finished the eleventh. So we didn't have a very good candidate. That's what this rank list indicates and that's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9070	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9071	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's not the correcting of the wrong quote, it's the replica to Mr. Bojić and his presentation. What I'm saying is that it's very small, Mr. Bojić, is that what you said is that the candidate who is now in the 11th place who was previously an Ombudsman is a member of the SNSD, and that, apparently, the SNSD has run for office in some previous term and those people who can't be among the first three places now. It is very malignant, non-legislative and to say very low on your part from the simple fact that all these candidates who are on this list, we as MPs should go from the assumption and the fact that, above all, they are not politically engaged and that they are here as professionals, and that they were running as professionals who would know that they are doing the job they applied for. To say that someone like that is now listed, is a member of the SNSD, and now you're going to tell me for sure that the one who's first, whom you so praise, has nothing to do with the SDS. How did you not commend someone who is, as you know who belongs to the political option, of all these Srbin from Republika Srpska, there may be among them who are close to the SNSD. But you're not going to say anything good for whoever in the wider circle was... SNSD, he's the worst for you. It's bad and it's low on your part, you don't need it in this story when it comes to professionals, people running from professional, above all professional initiatives. And by the way, it's inappropriate today to make findings here and say, so we have a ranking list where people were determined by ethnicity. It is an unsatisfactory finding and a story in this country's system, when it is normal and generally accepted that when people come to certain positions, among other things they can say which ethnic group, or which people they belong to. To say today that it is unacceptable that someone, simply as a grudge, should someone say that Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat were running for a certain position, that this is now unprofessional, that it is unacceptable and that it is even discrimination from a certain aspect... and point of view.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9072	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9073	So, uh, please take care of these statements and findings both in one context and in another, and when it comes to you from the SDS, take care, therefore, that you talk here first of all about candidates and not about who the political parties are, in the context of this agenda point. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9074	Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9075	It's colleagues, it's unnecessary to give such general qualifications according to what I said because they really don't stand. First of all, I know my esteemed colleague Sandić from the parliamentary benches. We were the Messengers of the people together. So, I'm in the Serbian Democratic Party, and he's in the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats. I don't know if any of these candidates are in the legislative authorities. On that basis, we could all conclude that he is promoting this political party. Is anyone close to any political party I haven't checked it out. But he claims that everyone who sat in the hall, and where the candidates were present, found that this candidate who got the most votes was the best and that he had the best concept, is confirmed by the representatives of the NGOs present in this room. I saw that man for the first time in that session. All I learned about him was what he wrote in the biography and based on what he said. And about Mr. Sandić, I'm not going to say anything ugly about a man. This is the man who was with me in the MPs' benches at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska as a member of the SNSD. Well, you, if you don't think it's that free, you deny what I'm saying. I'm not saying anything malignancies, but I'm saying something that is absolutely true, decadent, so the way it was on the Commission itself. And to tell you that no one has called me from my political party at all and said that there is a candidate who is a member of a political party or something. So I didn't really have anyone's intervention in terms of how I'm going to set myself up for that candidate. And I have to tell you, here were all the colleagues, that it was completely transparent, for the first time I'd say it could happen, this fellow Arnaut who was saying, that the circumstances of this happen, but really this was done properly. I think this is for the first time a job well done, when it comes to the work of this Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9076	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9077	It refers to Mrs. Marković, I assume the replica was sent to me. Powers and must be two different verbs, where it has to be exactly imperative that someone has to plead. You're exactly the one who used can but I don't have to. Which means the candidates who could but didn't have to plead. This is what you have now such a picture, information, but the process when we have adopted the Rules of Procedure where certain members of the Commission have requested that you, by ethnicity and the public notary, declare that the form is exactly where you are and what you are and that after six years of the term of office, you can no longer, for example, identify or declare yourself on some other basis. And ranking, Mr. Bojić, I really did say yes, and I wouldn't say now at all that this applies to candidate number one who did impress his CV, his interview and everyone else. I'm the only one who's the problem here, and I've been involved in this process, and I'm telling you that today the rank list could have been 1, 4 and 7 to be 1, 2 and 3. And now, and then we would realize that, here, we can't all be from the same because it would be a debate, but it's indicative that you as members, full members and members of the Commission, withdraw and say, but this will cause the discussion we can't put the first three out of one people, but we need to divide them immediately, and so look at 5, 2, 4 – 5, 2, 3, – 5, 1, which is really funny for me. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9078	Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9079	Is correcting the wrong quote. Mr. Bojić, what you presented and said about Mr. Sandić is, in fact, speaking from you yes, you consider it and if he was an SNSD MP that it was some kind of heresy because he was an SNSD MP and what he found in that place. You must know that when he applied for the Ombudsman he had to give up the party and freeze his membership in the party. I guess you're so clear because you've been an MP for a long time and you know how these procedures move. And, so now that he was once a member of the SNSD, and at the time he was an ombudsmen, he was no longer a member of that party, it's a life tag that he should wear like some kind of shackle around his neck because he was. That's a little bit of what you're saying. And to you, Mrs. Gasal, let me say, you just said in your opinion that might be 1, 4, 7, if I followed you well. And it could be discussed. Well, we see here from the rank list that it is not exactly a national criterion as they are ranked but was the number of points they have received, and what is required in this ombudsman structure to represent all three peoples is so bad. What makes you think, as someone who does not belong to the Serbian people, that, here are all three Serbs who are best suited to be all three ombudsmen, there should be no one from another people. It's strange and symptomatic and I'm absolutely convinced that there's something else behind it, not yours, really so realistic picture of candidates and how you would like to see the institution of the Ombudsman. So people showed knowledge, expertise and some measure that they had to satisfy to be even ranked on this rank list. But you are now, of course, potential nationality because as a member of the DF, it would probably be appropriate for both Serbs and Bosniaks and Croats to declare themselves in some way that suits you to plead in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9080	Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9081	Well, you see, I don't think it's a problem being a member of a political party, but you know when it comes to ideology, uh, all those who have been and have come to the legislative authorities are, for sure, ideologically profiled. At least I think they are. If they're not, then that's the problem with your political party. We do, so I don't believe there's anyone in the SDS at the National Assembly who's not politically profiled. We're here who we are and we're here ideologically, so someone who promotes SDS politics. That's how Sandić did it by the time he signed it, now he doesn't. You're very convincing, I must tell you, when it comes to finding that this is not about someone who is, so directly from the SNSD. People who were candidates from Republika Srpska are not in any legislative body, not in any legislative body, are not working in a legislative body, it is in itself saying that it is the persons coming from the Academic Community, or those people who have assessed that they can apply for the Ombudsman Institution. Next, when it comes to the choice itself, there is, therefore, the law by which we chose the Ombudsmans. The law clearly defined who could be chosen for the Ombudsman. They could not, therefore, choose the opportunities offered before them in terms of the quality of the candidates, but a legal obligation to what is what we should have chosen. That's what the Commission was doing. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9082	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9083	Well, first of all, Mrs. Vražalica. So this country is special because it has wealth, so everything and everything, so to speak, not to be misunderstood, and especially when it comes to members of different peoples in... who are the wealth of this country and this country is so perceived. And I don't know that Mrs. Maja has ever performed that she doesn't start her story on the divisions that, I'm just repeating again, of this country. And it all seems to me that, perhaps it is not a topic for this agenda point, that Mrs. Vražalica becomes more and more spokeswoman of unitarian ideas in this House. So it can, it's legitimate, but this country is some other state, it's made by the Constitution in some other way and of course it's the fact that it has to start from. On the other hand, if, then, the law said it could be members of three constituent peoples and others, as you said, so it's a legal fact and it simply can't. When it comes to a gentleman or a lady being ombudsman for six years, let's say in a relatively good place, and he won't declare to whom he belongs, it's also right, but we're looking for an English language certificate, and imagine that he belongs to some people we're not looking for anything. And there is, so in the administrative procedure now the possibility of doing so in your birth certificate, because from that fact, you might even get a job. Here's how you said it was the law. So is it hard to tell the candidate, if it's hard for him, too, he doesn't have to run, so if he passes as a Hrvat and he's not a Hrvat, he doesn't have to be what I'm going to be because the law said so. Therefore, there is, in the administrative procedure, the possibility of writing in your birth certificates who you are and what you are no longer to be manipulated, because for 6 years you will be ombudsmen, for example, from the order of the Croatian people. Now, it's hard to tell the gentleman, and he doesn't need any certification, so he'll tell us on the day of the interview that it is, and when he's elected ombudsmen he'll say, well, I'm not anymore, now I'm actually a member of the others, I don't even know who else. So these are the legal facts, it's the wealth of this country, and I don't know, here's what more stories about divisions than we talk about gifts and wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9084	Correction of the wrong quote, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9085	First Mrs. Marković. Mrs. Marković, if you listened to me carefully from beginning to end, I said that the first three candidates could have been from this or that, first, second or third people, because that way we could have figured out this ranking list, but it wasn't so conceived. The second thing is, why do you think I'm an advocate to be three ranked from the Serbian, Croatian or Bosniak people, that's your problem, because I'm a person who will assess the metricity and expertise and I don't want to be able to say it, and that's always going to be the difference between you and me, or between the DF and the SNSD. Another thing, Mr. Lovrinović, about how I'm the advocate of some divisions is actually talking about what laws you're proposing, changes and additions, which I suggest and why I advocate. The fact is that everyone has the right to plead, and I'm always for differences and for all 48 of these, these treasures that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that they are transparent and respected. What is indicative of you, Mr Lovrinović, is that those who have declared themselves a member or a member of the Croatian people, who was one candidate whom you said outside of the shoot and the stenogram that he was a great candidate, that he was a good interview but from the wrong side of Mostar, although she pleaded as a Hrvatica. Now, that's the difference between me and you, where I might have highly rated her, and you're not because you don't fit the side of the Mostar Bridge.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9086	Correction of the wrong allegation, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9087	Mrs. Marković. First of all, you are not the ones who will determine who we stand for. You are not the ones who give certificates in this country who is a Srbin, who is Bošnjak, who is a Hrvat, who is who is left. If someone's good as a man, it doesn't matter where they come from and who they are and what they are. And to Mr. Lovrinović, if we are advocates of unitarism, then you are advocates of discrimination and segregation in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9088	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9089	It's a bit of a confusing discussion... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9090	Please, I beg your turn. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9091	A confusing discussion that's passed on to another field, but here there are a few things to react to. This is not the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, this is the BiH Parliament and all that is the topic and what are day-to-day political developments in Republika Srpska, and I am pleased to see it happening there but in that Parliament, and I think few colleagues are exaggerating with this SNSD and the Change Alliance. As far as I'm concerned, they are currently competing, i.e. the argument is the main one who better advocates, is whether, for a people who claim to represent, and here, colleague Marković is angry with counterpart Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, who says that the three representatives of the Serbian people were the best in this contest. That's not good now either. I really don't get it. kolega Lovrinović, I think you should take a little care of the statements you make. You can't say they've divided the data in this country. So it's just a statement that's for every kind of conviction. If they've divided the givenness in your head, in your political definition, because what you're doing can't be affected by anyone, but that someone in this House claims to have shared the givenness in this country I will always respond to it. This time like this, the second time much rougher.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9092	Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9093	Here, like my colleague from the club, Saša Magazinović, my ears were burned by this statement that they had shared the givenness in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should be made very clear here that divisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are an anti-civilisation and anti-history phenomenon in Bosnia and Herzegovina and are a dominant import product, and the givenness in Bosnia and Herzegovina is what we have been living here for centuries, and that is the life of different nations, religions, cultures. And it is always and everything that needs to be returned, so to those best values and examples from our past, and not to try to launch some thesis that will not bring good to anyone, to any nation or to any citizen in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9094	jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9095	Thank you. Well, in this entire discussion, it can be seen that it is aimed at ranking candidates and dissatisfaction with the ranking list. How has this ranking come to me as an MP can only be learned by reading the Commission's report. The Commission report states that the Commission assessed candidates on the basis of three criteria. The first criterion – an interview was performed, from 0 to 30 points, the second criterion – the current experience in the legal profession, from 0 to 30 points and the third criterion – gained experience in the fields of protection of human rights and freedom of citizens, from 0 to 30 points. As I understand these criteria, the Commission should have ranked the most successful candidates on the basis of these criteria, and then if it wanted to be chosen from that list by the three most successful, namely from these candidates, the three most successful Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat, then it should have been decided by the Rules of Procedure, to make it clear that the Commission has made the choice of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, because this is how we lead ourselves astray. I guess we're not even fair to the public then. You have to know that. If the ranking list is to specify the most successful candidates in line with these criteria then it should be done without the internal transformation of the list in such a way that it must be, as counterpart Arnaut said, the first three places reserved Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin, etc., etc. So, we here have to open up a process of honesty and say -- that's what politics really is and wills in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a condition that must be fulfilled in order to adopt such a decision in this House of Representatives. Because the ranking list doesn't follow these discussions when it's said that there were the best candidates, and then from one constitutive nation. So we're not fair to these candidates. Or we say that the first candidate is far better than the other candidates and then only one point is the difference between first-ranked and second-ranked. So there's something wrong with that. Therefore, we really need to look at the overall political reality and be fair about these candidates and decisions, because in the end many high-quality experts don't dare run because they may know in advance that their candidacy will not be evaluated and evaluated in a good way and then, of course, there are reserves according to our decisions that we make in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9096	Your time is up. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9097	I'll be right with you, Madam Chairman. God Bog that the system in Bosnia and Herzegovina has evolved to this extent from these elections that experts have a chance. I'd like to applaud today. And that's why nothing happened. It's why we end up devising a competitive procedure. And they're right about those people who... I don't accuse anyone, I don't think that anything better has been done behind us for years, but I expected at least a competitive procedure to be respected until the end. No one here argues that it is formally respected, but in everything you can convince me, except that the parties to the parliamentary majority had no influence whatsoever. We'll come to the second item of the agenda, the one that's going now, they're auditors. So, I don't think we're still in a situation where experts have a chance in this country if they're not tightly tied to one of the parties that makes up most. And they're right people who say it's discouraging for any expert to compete. So, I'm not going to say anything bad about any candidate who has applied, I'm not going to say that, so we're going to say our way of voting, but I don't think we should convince each other, really falsely, that the ruling parties haven't really had any influence and that these candidates aren't tied to the parties. This would mean that the tender procedure is strongly supported and not unthinkable. So, you've continued your bad practice. I will not say that at a time when I was representative of the parliamentary majority was done better. That's why I'm asking you to advance the procedure, so the competition makes sense and that experts make sense. Today these people who say it's not all a coincidence. So that would give up here too if you didn't have a parliamentary majority, and you don't have to run away from supporting each other. And those who are proposed will be chosen, which I am convinced of, but from the opposition we have the right to say how we see things. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9098	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9099	Well, I don't have the need or the intention of being my colleague Lovrinović's lawyer, but he's quickly running out of replicas, so I'm going to reflect on some of the things that were said here in this way. So, the consistency of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the existence of several peoples with different religious, traditional, and cultural experiences is the spirit of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why it is well defined by the laws and the Constitution that every procedure we implement in Bosnia and Herzegovina must respect the constitutional structure, but also the spirit of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kunst or art us from our committees is to reconcile this spirit and structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the expertise of the people we choose. I'm glad that the Committee, which we're talking about, is that literally, all the people that worked in the good and... the atmosphere and did a good job. Then I really don't understand why such a debate on the good work, I didn't expect at this point in the agenda, that we would open a constitutional story on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9100	Thank you very much. Debate, Zaim Backović. Non-compliance with the established agenda, Diana Zelenika. I'm sorry. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9101	There's no need, because I squeezed a little later, here's a thank you. A little encouraged by this expert group, etc., and what Mr. Emrić said was one of the criteria of the work experience so far, but there are no criteria as far as the work experience has been done. What am I saying? If it was an experience so far, then we'd have here 2, 3 and 11, because these people have been working for 6 years and they certainly have the greatest experience. So obviously that's not it. Not to return, I've been overly commenting on the Ombudsmans, their report where what I wrote was and I've been a vocalist of all the discriminated people in this country, it didn't even go to the report. When I asked to be told if they were networked, if they had a database, I got a report that they did. Well, since they didn't get what I wrote in the seventh month last year only as political discrimination, there's no such thing as a report. And that burdens and goes to the soul of the lady who's here under regular number three, if I've seen it well, because I've reported it to Mostar and the year has passed and I've only had the opportunity to talk about it here. So, here my people have nothing to do with the expert cases, but just about choosing the parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9102	Thank you. And you just signed up for not keeping the agenda, and you've just made a misrepresentation for what you applied for. We're going to a debate, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9103	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since I've waited very long, very long, a lot of what I wanted to say was said through replicas, through answers, through findings, through non-compliance with the agenda. And like this, colleague Damire, the law of probability is amazing because it's turned here into an exact one. And what I was taking on that statistic and learning and I had to prove, I think it's changed and that the one I called Branko Vojinović, the professor, was very strict, should change his books and this should be exact now because this SHB, BSH, HSB, HSS, this should be exact. And it's a fact state, and we can't get away from it as long as the consolidation and the relationship of power is like this. As we cannot escape, and no matter how hard anyone tries to say it is or is, it is and it is the determination of those who are in power and they have determined who will be the Ombudsman. Not getting into the metrics at all, I'm not saying they're not quality, Bog forbid, away from anything they say, I'm talking about something completely different here, they're not going to say what the effects are, we're not going to go into what we're doing that what they're doing is being realized because it's unrealized. The Ombudsmans have become ordinary figures, spiders, dolls in the end, and they record ordinary records, it's like in the class that I was saying – who's on call this week and he records it, and the solutions in the finality and their hem decisions don't mean anything. Once again, Maja took away some of what I wanted to say. I fully support you, Maja, but we live in a time where we have a vacuum, a time, a time, a time where we don't understand each other when we say any of this. And that will be all as long as someone takes for himself the right of exclusive representation through ethno-national and national-religious, not wanting to respect, I now apologize to my colleague whom I know too well, and I always voted against him when he was a member of the presidency, I apologize to Željka Komšić, you are not a Hrvat for nothing, because you see how and how 52 admits who is, as well as I do not belong to the great Bosniaks because I often tell them what is wrong, because I do not think that they are working, as my Đukanović Milorad cannot do because he works in the Elektroprivred BiH, and there can't be any poor people there where he is because he is, he does not. And we have big problems, and I said her name, so I guess you're gonna help him now, because you know him well. That I should still, perhaps without a name, a last name, so stab without a name, a last name, a password, so let's see what turns out then. Then there won't be any party phones, then there won't be any party orders, and then maybe a blood count of what we have here would be equal to the blood count that we all have A, B, 0, A, A negative, A positive, but we wouldn't know what we're called, whose ethno-national group we belong to or ethno-religious, whatever you want. And all of us here forget that, given the circumstances of what we are, if we were born among the Eskimos, if we were born in China, we'd be Kinez, if we were born in Africa, we'd believe in totems, but we don't ask if there are people. First of all, whether there is real knowledge, education, humanity and respect. As far as I'm concerned, I'm aware that this kind of choice will be and last as long as, they say, not the law of probability, but the law of effectiveness, we are the country in which the government is ethnically-national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9104	Lazar Prodanović, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9105	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like to say that with great attention I have read the great careers of life professional among all 17 candidates who have applied for this contest to be elected to the BiH Ombudsman institution. And what's quite clear here has impressive things, from someone writing that career on 20 pages and impressing someone or someone on one or two sides, that it's also impressive. I think this is the right time to point out something that would be of paramount importance in the election process, today it can't change anything, nothing is going to happen today than in the previous ways of the election of the Ombudsman was, but I think that there are changes to the law that we need to seriously think about how it is possible for this institution to reach its capacity even though it is approximately the same institutions in the countries of the region. It is possible, it can't be said that objectivity, I mean every commission works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it respects certain rules, there's a point and so on. It is unlikely, although it is not impossible to be the smartest, let's say the Srbin, so Bošnjak or Hrvat alike, it is theoretically difficult, but it is happening, although normally the first five Bosniaks were chosen with the most qualified, which is also possible, then the second candidate, these other, third, fourth, fifth, would be eliminated and at the expense of this in accordance with the law, let's say the Hrvat who... or the Srbin. I believe that, given that it is an extremely important institution for respect for the human rights of every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is seriously necessary to change the law in the way of elections. So I think capacity and legitimacy would be much higher if that included a choice of 2/3 of the total number of votes in the House of Representatives. This applies, not only to the Ombudsman, but also to the main auditor, or the BiH Audit Office. Without it, no matter how professionally we are, we do not have the capacity and cannot point to the seriousness and independence of this institution in any way. Someone closer, someone closer to a political option, it's hard to say that someone is absolutely not close to someone. It does not matter at all how much we would point out with this change to a serious message that the report, the Annual 53 Report of the BiH Ombudsman Institution, receives absolute support from the Parliamentary Assembly and that the Parliamentary Assembly insists on respecting the recommendations of the Ombudsman Institution. In that sense, so I've seen here that, there are young people with amazing careers who even ended up at world's top universities. Someone did it, someone completed either education or education at the age of 25 or 27, someone at 45, but that's all to respect. So the only possible way to do too much in these replicas is not to waste and not to waste time, is to change the law in the way of choice. And I'm going to say another important thing that was mentioned in terms of division. You see, I can't say about the Turkish period, but I am sure, therefore, that since the Austrian period, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been taken into account in respect of the principles of constitutionality in one way or another. This was also not written in the Commission, but it was absolutely a rule that adequate, conditionally said, national representation of candidates must be respected in order to be a total balance. This is written in the Constitution today, but you didn't even have to write it down where it was meant to be. But what's a characteristic of all that, I have to say, a number of us have lived in that period, and more attention must be paid to the superior expertise of a person who competes in these places in order not to be devastated and that they, not by their own free will, but also by our commitment, would not be completely survanized by the break-in. But it's not this, I'm not going to say in this institution, for me it's much more worrying, it's not the subject of this debate, it's a worrying way of choosing, let's say, the judge of the Constitutional Court. What we say about political similarities if we can always count at least half of those who are. So, in that sense, I just wanted to, Madam Chairman, point out that, if, therefore, not criticising this method or approach at all, if we were, we would have the courage to say – yes, the Ombudsman institution is extremely important for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for believing in respect of human rights, as well as the main service of the revision, I will not report afterwards, but in order to choose there must be 2/3 votes. I mean, and there may be different manipulations, but they'd be less of a ratio than, say, in the way that it's in previous cycles, or now the representatives of these institutions are elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9106	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a replica, or correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9107	So that we do not wrongly conclude, that it is not a matter of whether we will respect the BiH Constitution, and he is not only talking about the constituent peoples but also about the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what many here are forgetting today, the thing is that, and from that we are running as far as I can see, which we are unrealisingly unrealisingly and bindingly condemning the European Court of Human Rights, which has made it very clear to us that there are a huge number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are obviously discriminated against. And that there is no European Court of Human Rights verdict, I suppose we could have seen that. As we know from these three constituent nations, almost half of the territory on one side and on the other, we are discriminated against even members of the constituent people, and there is no need for us to try to justify these things. We simply, in this insistence strictly on the constitutionality of the people, forgetting the citizens and the people of this country, have exaggerated in this country. Exaggerate in a way that Greek philosopher Diogen from Sinopa who walked with a candle in a day's time. When the old Grk asked him what he was doing, he said I was looking for a man. If by any chance he were alive and could come to Bosnia and Herzegovina here, he'd have to turn on the reflectors to see if there's any besides that formula DHS(?) living people, first of all people, and then everything else. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9108	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9109	Just for a little while, I don't know if I'm wrongly interpreted in that sense. Well, I guess we all agree, I don't need an expert on Srbin, I need a lawyer, a professor at the university, someone who is. I think we understand each other completely, and there's no dilemma. So when I talk about this, I'm talking about someone's top expert ability to respond to their mission. That goes for this second and every other institution. But I absolutely advocate that all decisions of international institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina be implemented. They won't violate any of my complacency and my relationship with it, I think it's a civilizational relationship, but until we change, unfortunately until we change the law, as far as the changes in law are concerned, I don't mind getting rid of it, so we have to respect what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9110	Debate, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9111	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Namely, I am closest to the discussion of the esteemed colleague Lazar Prodanović, who, in the section proposing interventions at the Ombudsman Law and because of the essential nature, is to redefine the rights and obligations of the Ombudsman, because the recommendations of the Ombudsman today no Bog knows how much respect or commitment they have. The way in which the Ombudsman is elected, this is not how much discussion would be conducted to more precisely define the way in which the Ombudsman is elected. Why? Because the Commission, which we formed, had a very difficult task, you know. Who knows this matter best? It is those who have already been ombudsmen, because they have worked for years on this job, because they have faced these problems, etc. However, if the government praises the Ombudsmans, neither is the authority nor the Ombudsman. Why? Because the government is exactly the greatest human rights offender. And for this reason, I find it very difficult for the Commission to choose the most adequate solutions that they have ranked, but I think it is essential to set things up in principle that those who are now playing a role, or the position of the Ombudsman in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are not adequate solutions for the reason that human rights are being violated at every step of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we do not have in particular that our ombudsmans who respond, who write, who make recommendations that human rights are roughly violated, and even our citizens are looking for legal protection in Strasbourg. Therefore, I ask you to, perhaps in this way, think a little bit and choose exactly those, to give them a chance just to those who have certainly not worked until now, that is to say, to support the power that harshly violates human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9112	Thank you. Debate, Milica Marković. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9113	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 55 Well, here, I will say very briefly my observations regarding this report that we received from the Commission. I have read this report carefully, the biographies of candidates who have applied and with whom an interview has been carried out, and I have to say my first observation, and according to the discussions that we have had here today, is the following – that it would be good and useful, not only for the MPs we are discussing today, but more for those who will be users of the services of this institution, so those people who are being usurped by human rights, who will expect help and protection, professional protection of the Ombudsman, that we have heard today, therefore, from the representatives of the members of this Commission, what are the Commission's observations as to whether there really were those who were able and able to bring certain innovations and newspapers into the work of the Ombudsman Institution. It would be good and useful if we were in the material, as we didn't get, so we saw here from the biography that all the candidates listed professional papers, and books, and seminars where they were, and that their hobby was music, literature, that they were at this or that seminar abroad, but we couldn't read anything about their seeing and functioning of the Ombudsman Institution. I agree with those who say it would be good and useful, so that we have had the situation and the opportunity to have the new Ombudsmans who are, but here we see that there will be neither all new beings nor old, from the old lineup, that the new Ombudsmans who are appointed to this position, so you who are really going to bring in certain innovations. But here, I want to believe that all these candidates, interviewed by the Commission, were in charge of talking about it in an interview with them, but in my opinion it would be useful to have at least for the first three ranks received or derived from their statements, that is, what they said in that interview, and which is directly and strictly related to the functioning of the Ombudsman Institution. But here I can also accept that the procedure was so imposed on how it was done and what material we got, but I want to say in this discussion to those who today, here in some way, accused the SNSD that we are supposed to be great nationalists who are watching this Commission report from some ethnic story and structure, that it is not true and therefore not standing, colleague Magazinović, what you said about me being angry because someone suggested that all three ombudsmen be of the Serbian people, so the colleague said that she thought that 1st, 4th and 7th were the most suitable to be the newly elected Ombudsman, and that in the Report... I am not angry at that at all, and of course, as a Srpkinji woman, I am glad to see that someone from the Serbian people has been highly quoted and has met certain criteria to be appointed to certain positions. But I am also aware that this is not a solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have representatives of only one people in one position, in fact it is impossible and it cannot succeed in this country, and all those who tried to do so have failed in their efforts. That's why, Mr. Magazinović, it's a pure demagogy of what you're saying, or you've just been listening so casually to what I've been saying and putting it out there. So, what I am about to say as a member of the opposition party but that there is a collegiate respect between us, as it does not exist, then today the first finding should be to say that it is good that the Commission has done its job, that it has done it in the legal frameworks and that, if the time has come to name the new Ombudsman and is, that this job will probably be successfully completed. On the contrary, this story has been set to one another from the very beginning and from the beginning by the DF, in one very different context, which is a national and ethnic concept and therefore does not stand the conclusion that we from the SNSD allegedly want something to be watched and everything seen through the prism of the national. No, it is our view that especially when it comes to the Ombudsmans that this story should be watched through the professional and human capacities of the candidates who have run for office tomorrow, and that all of these candidates should actually look at what their views and prospects are tomorrow to fulfill their duty to the people who will be addressed to them by people who are damaged, whose human rights are usurped, and not of course by those who enjoy certain privileges and benefits in this society. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9114	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9115	I'd like to call this a confirmation of the real allegation. Dear counterpart Mehmedović, who came out, said here that they were exes, I'm sorry I thought you went out, that the former ombudsmen were mostly silent, many things they didn't notice. I really hope that today we will get the best possible choice, because it is inadmissible, my fellow Members, that we live in a country where the other day is a boastful, powerful, powerful employer, a tycoon, makes its workers go on a polygraph, their worker physically abuses, and our Ombudsmans keep quiet. Our Ombudsmans had to be in Milic the same day as the police had to arrest the same day, and not Rajk Dukić. And then a real question arises and the work of our ombudsmans, and the work of the investigative bodies shows what kind of society we live in. That an employer can abuse you, harass you, physically beat you, force you to a polygraph, that the police don't react to it, that the Ombudsmans don't react to it, so the people we live in. And I, of future ombudsmen, the only thing I expect them to do is react and work in accordance with the law, not to serve any of these political parties here, but to work for the good of this society and citizens who pay for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9116	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9117	The wrong assumption is that she's a colleague of Marković's, and it's not really your fault, it's the wrong idea. She misunderstood that anyone suggested that all three candidates be of one nation. The discussion was conducted in the direction that when the results were only taken into account so that they could, and if all candidates were coded in this contest, all three candidates could be candidates from Republika Srpska in a concrete contest. And I don't know what's on your mind about someone stressing it as a result of a quality contest. Of course they have other criteria that are respected, and that's not disputed either. It's just a questionable bit of this anxiety that I would say is being transmitted to us from the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. That's controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9118	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9119	The smartest thing to do is to check in first if you had that speed somehow or if a man were to switch, so, because they take people, they say big, they kidnap. Here's Saša. You kidnapped me. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let me lose. I also said ethno-national, national-religious, yes. And maybe it wouldn't be bad if we thought about making a rule here, something where the candidates would be anonymous. For those of us who watch, evaluate and evaluate their values... 57 people, rather than those who, through previous work, have acquired the expertise, the effects of their work, the effect, what they have done in life, will be decisive and decisive to come to some place. No wonder we don't even have it on the Reform Agenda, who knows maybe we'll have it, a number of countries are now introducing political appointments through a competitive procedure. Imagine that. Don't be surprised, look at the little bit, and you'll see what countries have already introduced them. So it happens to you that ministers are 21 years old, 21 years old. But I hope that we will overcome this and that, because in the world you have a cigarette that is BHS and very quickly burns, burns, I hope that this way of deciding in this country as well as those cigarettes, called BHS, will burn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9121	I think the comment is too high on everything we've heard so far. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9122	What I really can't figure out is, here I'm trying to believe that I understand these discussions and something's not working out for me today. I have to be honest that I didn't understand, here's what if the Milica could repeat it once more so that I could understand what she meant by this discussion, I would be very pleased, but not just her, but some other colleagues. It's important to me, people, is this in accordance with the law or is it not in accordance with the law? Has the Komsija done anything contrary to the law? If it's not that we're dealing with this question this way, then let's say it's not right. And if it is in accordance with the law, and we're not satisfied with what the law says, then again, there is a very clear procedure. So I really don't see, here I keep trying to convince myself that it's me and that's why I don't understand. On the part I wanted to say, when I came forward part of the story I thought about what my colleague Pandurević was talking about, unfortunately not only was Dukić's case the only one they could deal with, there are many such cases in this country. But here, people were dealing with what they were getting obviously, and there were no initiatives from the ombudsmen themselves, and that's, let's say, in accordance with the law and see what the problem is. Like I don't see what the problem is for someone who's been an Ombudsman to be in 11 right now. Look, I don't see what the problem is, as well as a minister who's a minister, so he's not a minister anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9123	Thank you very much. Debate, Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9124	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs. Well, I said congratulations, so to the Commission, the temporary one who did her job like this, as Mr. Novaković says, according to the regulations. I believe that all the candidates were high-quality, so it said that they needed three candidates to be, so they were scored with the highest points, they were scored the way the Commission did it, I see from their report. But what I'm saying is, we need to learn a little about democracy, which is to act like MPs when we're both in position and in opposition. I would like with full respect, Mr. Prodanović, that 58 you suggested it when you were in position, what you are proposing today, and 2/3 votes to choose the Ombudsman we must, you must change the Constitution. So it's not like I mean it's so much or so important a choice, it's not about changing the constitution that we have to vote in two-thirds. When you look at the MPs who worked in the Commission, they are MPs from both Houses, it's about MPs from experienced MPs, and I want to believe that they did their job the way they did it here and delivered it to us. It is our democratic right to vote or not to vote for this list in the way it was delivered to us here. Parliamentary democracy and implies that we do not all have to agree on the criteria as they are set, but what Mrs Pandurević said, the key thing is that, excuse me or madam, I apologize, crucially that is the question, whether the Ombudsman in his, meaning mandate, which is not time or short, will do any of what she said here. So far, we don't have cases like this, and we'd love to have these cases where the Ombudsmans are, and not just one but all three, so she's hired such drastic cases as we've had in the last few months. In order not to take time we've been around this point of the agenda and discussed, here I congratulate the Commission again, I think you've been doing this properly, congratulatingly and making a list of how you've scored it. The game of the number of points is the first one on the Srbin list, I think it is irrelevant whether the first three candidates are Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak, the most important thing is that they comply with the law and they are prescribed under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9125	Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9126	Since you were not in your previous meeting, you can look at the stenograms from the session. So, I haven't said for a moment that I, or anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, need a SNSD Ombudsman. I think I'm going to tell you right now, so I said that earlier and at the national clause, this principle to strengthen the independence of the institution, I spoke every time there was a debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman Institution, including the institution's main audit service. So in that sense, I guess you didn't know that information, so I have nothing to add to that. Secondly, I have not called at all to challenge the breach of the procedure or the illegality of the Commission's work. I pointed out the problem we are facing, we need to think seriously about this, nor did I say that this item of the agenda should be removed because something is not respected. Also, I must say, it is not necessary to amend the Constitution to determine the procedure in support of voting for some of the independent institutions, and even if it is, given that an institution is established at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and one and the other, I believe that it would be strengthened and made full of integrity and independence that should be considered. This did not concern at all that I disputed in any way the work of this Commission, I just said what would be the greater interest of all, so all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the most legislative body. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9127	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 59 We move to point 12. Ad. 12. Appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions Office, Material: Temporary Joint Commission of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions On 22.10.2015, the Interim Joint Committee submitted a report in the procedure setting out the ranking of candidates for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office. The proposed candidate for the appointment of the head auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office is Dragan Vrankić. The proposed candidate for the appointment of deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office is Ranko Krsman. I'm opening a debate. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9129	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Damir, this is the probability and accuracy, and it is not by political nature, but by professional title, knowledge and by the property of appointments. I'm not talking about people here, on the contrary, I'm just talking about coming over here once and trying to get to that level and trying to think that we're just talking about people who are going to be the ones who have to do the job that's good, well important. It's not even an ombudsmen anymore, it's not even auditors, it's every segment at all, every point of a complicated clock that needs to work. I know Dragan very well myself. If nothing for fifteen years I've been in contact with him through various jobs, through the Federation Parliament, through his ministry in the Federation, through the ministry here and so on. So, I'm in good contact and if I were to ask myself, not seeing if that's this segment of politicization, I'd say yes, right now. I wouldn't think. So I don't want anyone to get me wrong. But it was by accident that the term of office of the chief auditor ended and one of the deputies ended and, by chance, the best in the rankings were Dragan Vrankić and the proposed candidate. It's a miracle that they're from these two nations. And then again, it's a miracle, let's break this farce, because now and here the discussion is going to develop about it. So BHS, HSB, SBH, HBS is going to last and that's how it's going to be without our will. That's what's no longer a probability, it's an exactity. So I said that Branko Vojinović, or called him Tark, would once, in grilled carriers, ask us to recalculate into a thousandths. That's how it's all calculated in a millionth of a millionth of a millionth of a millionth of a millionth of a millionth You know exactly where to whom and when to place. That's the choice. So it becomes a farce that we here in Parliament decide as something who will be. He will be the one that is encamped, camped, camped, or whatever you will, the ethno-national interests of an enquiries, as you find it, which is amazing, boat-binding rings, ships in the Neretva Valley, but at the very beginning of Neretva above the Horse, above the Horse. Imagine the ships used to come from there, so here all the tankers got together, but they're tankers that suck and not suck. That they pump towards us, but suck from us and from this people. They drink slowly and with little patience and blood left in this nation. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9130	Debate, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9131	Thank you very much. Let me say a few words, first of all, about making a decision on the selection of the auditor general and his deputy. Since the Office for Audit has two deputies, therefore one deputy from the Bosniak people has not yet expired, and that is why we are choosing, today a general auditor is elected who, under some unwritten rule, has been said to be a Hrvat, because they are headed by the Office for the Audit of Republika Srpska, and at the head of the Federation of BiH's Bošnj's Audit Office, to be some justice that would have filled out those places in such a way. What did I want to comment on about that? Once, since I was a member of the Finance and Budget Committee for many years, I had the opportunity to communicate with the Swedish office that practically led Bosnia and Herzegovina's hand for ten years on audit issues. And then I asked what should be the choice of the general auditor and his deputies in order to preserve the necessary independence of one of the key institutions of which the situation in society depends at all, especially the issue of crime and corruption, sanctioning it. And then they told me, even though it is not a transparent process in Sweden until the end, still pay attention to one thing – let these people have at least some experience in the area. Now, that's where we go back to the beginning, so the committee of the audit office is doing such an important and complex job. And then when I took, when I got this opinion, I looked at it, not the number of points, because we know how to get to the number of points, but I looked at the biographies. And really, our people, when they make up their mind, they're probably told in advance that you're gonna be that, so you don't even have to write a correct biography. Ranko Krsman made a biography halfway across and what he recommended for the deputy general auditor should be, he worked, an independent reviewer at the theatre, was at the finance inspector's ministry, he was a consultant, he was deputy director general. I was trying to find out what gave him 49.33 points, the next one was 30, I don't know 33, so what recommended him for this position, so with a big, high number of points. And secondly, I've known Mr. Vrankić for years. And we know what he was doing. But I really can't figure out that man couldn't write anything more than these things, none of which recommended him for position. So, he did, he's a famous man in this House, but when we look at the aspect of what this kind of thing, the application, and this résumé, or CV, could have sent for any place to compete and write a little bit more data. So the information in this way, it's not correct to this institution that chooses these people. Well, it needs to be done, so correct, it's not a man who has nothing to write, but why he didn't write. So, I'm really, I don't think that's correct, that they know they'll both be chosen, but, and I don't mind that if it's established, and probably, I guess, because the Commission had some criteria, that 41.50 points as far as it got to deserve its first place. But finally, if all three auditors are out of the audit, that means none of them have the profession to... What the review report will look like, no matter what the auditors do. The auditor-general and his deputies play an important role, because they not only approve of every audit report, they define the work of the audit institution, define what is, what impact audits should be done. So that's very important for this. I'm very sorry it's like this, it's called Parliament's disrespect. And I don't think it was correct. You should have told one and the other, those who, in a bid to compete, to write with a little more respect to this biography they sent to Parliament. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9132	Thank you. Representative Emrić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9133	Thank you. I will not comment on the list or candidates, but I do not understand how this Range List was formed, since the Commission Report does not state the criteria or the way of the score. Therefore, as an MP, I cannot conclude that this Range List has been formed at all. The report states that all members of the Interim Commission received forms that they completed and thus assessed candidates, that there was an interview, there was nothing controversial, but I did not find anywhere that the criteria were mentioned and how much the criteria were worth, in terms of points. Therefore, as an MP, I have been prevented from making up my own ranking list based on the biography and knowledge of certain candidates, and from assessing the objectivity of the Commission's work, and I think it is the lack of this designation in relation to the previous point, when three criteria and points are listed on the basis of which we can conclude how valuable these criteria were and how the Rang List was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9134	Thank you very much. Damir Bećriović, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9135	I will try, as a member of the Commission, and I hope that Mr. Kožul and Mr. Lovrinović will not be offended anymore, because I really do not go against anyone on a personal basis, but only by what it should be. The review office page says it is a non-political institution that has nothing to do with any political party and political parties. Mr. Vrankić is a member of the HDZ Central Committee, the minister on several occasions in front of HDZ. There are still some misunderstandings in the least that relate to his name, from various affairs both in the Federation and at the state level, where he was even reported, you have a situation about misfulfilling, false allegations in the property chart, you have situations about the privatisation of the Energopetrol, where as federal minister he wrote off the 22 million-mark debt of Energopetrol. Everything's okay about it as the person who was doing it, and colleague Majkić said that he, like, has what, is the man who has something to write and who should write in that CV. I, as a member of the Commission, gave Mr. Vrankic 50 points, because I believe he is not qualified by anything, especially this part that Mr. Backović says is an apolitical part, that nothing qualify him for this position as a general auditor. This is the institution that has to give us, must give the institutions of other Bosnia and Herzegovina an insight into the real state of finance in these institutions. It's my opinion that with a general auditor like this, we won't get that opinion. I believe that this too will be an institution that will be politicized and these reports will be definitely politicized. I am sorry that my colleagues from the SDA and Mr Arnaut of the SBB do not see it the way we see it now, because you are talking about fighting nepotism, corruption, a politicism of institutions, but simply it must be said that the SBB votes, their candidate in the Commission, have decided who will be the general auditor. And we will hardly build institutions this way that are apolitical and that have nothing to do with political parties. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9136	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9137	I listened very carefully, and I thought about whether to answer this item on the agenda, but my colleague Bećirović offered me, but, of course, I was invited and all of what we heard on the previous issue. I really didn't see any reason to argue and think like this. But why did I want to say it? It is because everyone in one way or another wanted to say that he is a measure of expertise, that he is a measure of criteria, etc., and in this case, and in this case, what we have heard from fellow Bećirović, and just now from a colleague who said she advocates expertise regardless of national commitment, etc., I would like to say, is in this case whether what we heard from colleagues is a measure of expertise, quality, etc. I understand that perhaps colleague Vrankić, when it comes to the appointment of the chief auditor, did not make perhaps his CV, or biography by some European standards or models, but in fact what is stated in his CV is indeed a fact of what, especially all of us who stand behind this proposal, we can be proud. Thank you very much. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9138	It's a replica, or when we're replicating here, we're correcting the wrong allegations, it's not a sign of anger. We're here to do it, colleague Bećirović, and if we think something is said that doesn't stand, that in any sense, it was actually, either in the tone of what is sometimes said here, so it's here. As for working in this commission, I really thought we wouldn't, that we'd exhausted ourselves on the previous commission, so that at this point we wouldn't... the work of the commission... we got here. But as for all the candidates, without singleing out any individual, we had those candidates on the Committee who applied with all the necessary documentation. Inside that file, as far as I know, there was both a belief of impunity or whatever it was, and we of those people who applied, as many as 15-19 I don't know, we can only view it that way, as qualified applicators. No way to get them out of something that's an affair, or it's this, or that. As for the score, I really didn't get into how other members of the commission are pushing, but simply by math, my colleague Bećirović, if you gave this candidate one point and when we see how many points there are, we all gave him far more points, five I'd say serious representatives and delegates. So, is it qualified to do this one point in this way a little bit atypical? Is there a man who came to the Committee and answered our questions... he said something about it, which is worth 50 exactly 1 point? I think people should be properly evaluated, human to put it that way. So five of us had each other's views on the candidate and really, uh, that's this, what's leading me to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9139	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9140	Mr. Bećriović, I didn't say they were party, but party-like. That's a big difference. To be a party, it's a sympathiser you can be, you can be, and there are party perpetrators. I said it, you know. And don't be surprised that the SBB is... the SBB is no longer the opposition and he votes as it votes, because tomorrow the SBB candidate can also appear. So he'll have to vote. That's not the thing. The Foll is in this BHS, SBH. But now I'm talking again, I know Vrankić, and with all due respect, I wish he didn't think this was an attack on him, because I really appreciate him, seriously. In business he's virtuoso, he knows business, he really knows, he knows he's doing his job, I'm talking about finding instruments of choice in which party resemblance is avoided. And the similarity of belonging to BHS, HSB, SBH, more of which there are than what you've acquired. Because I won't, I didn't want to rephrase a moment ago, but it's hard for someone who gets expertise and becomes a professor at 60. Who gets a degree in 58th and comes straight to the top and becomes a professor of the university at 60th. Woe to the children they educate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9141	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9142	Madam Chairman. I was talking not about Mr. Vrankić's competences, but about his political engagement as a member, one of the leading members of your political party. Such a man cannot be the chief auditor of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. No matter what, Mr. Kožul, and the man who comes from another party, let's say from mine, from any one, I would do the same. I am glad that I do not belong to that circle of five MPs who have that experience and who have a different opinion. But we're definitely all talking, we're pushing for the depoliticalization of institutions, especially the auditor's institutions, but in practice we all do some other things. And there, this Mr. Backović, of course, is the part that is the main brake in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that BHS... without citizens, without others, who advocate something else, but we are just still in such a situation that citizens have to suffer, they have to listen because they simply don't want to go to elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9143	Correction of the wrong quote, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9144	Thank you. The replica refers to you, Madam Chairman, because I have the impression that you are using every opportunity to connect in your replicas something I have said, expressed and confirmed. It's true that I'm for expertise, competence, and I'll always be. And now that you've already connected my exposure to the previous agenda point, I have to say that I've run myself there with expertise, measurement, CV, biography, and you, here and now, if I didn't have the knowledge of these as someone who's neutral, independent, let's say I don't have the knowledge that my colleague Damir Bećirović has shown, I would look back on CV, but here you yourself have confirmed what Mrs Dušanka Majkić said that CV is less than or more thin so that he doesn't know what a man would read in 64 of him. Someone applying for a state-level place and for a public one, whether, for a sector this important institution, he wrote three, four sentences about himself, and didn't even bother to make a single Europass CV.. And when you compare it, and it can be very easy to find on the Internet how our children apply for all these competitions that, either for the public sector or for the private sector, try to shape their CVs and make them at European level, because we are going, whether or not we are on our way to the EU, someone who is guaranteed a passage because it is partyally close to one option to write three, four options. And that's the difference between you and me, Mrs. Krišto, which I would, and in this case, be guided by CV, but unfortunately I can't because I have nothing to read in CV.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9145	Correction of the wrong quote, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9146	In view of the fact that the members of the Interim Commission, who established the Rang List, were also determined in their discussions on how to score, and I have just made an observation in the way of the score, i.e. that there are no criteria in the Commission's Report, nor has it been described how these criteria have been assessed in terms of points. So here I am asking the members of the Interim Commission - what are the criteria and what was the way of the score, to get to the rank list that is under point 4. in this report of yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9147	Correction of the wrong allegation, Chairman Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9148	I'll try to correct the wrong quote without mentioning it now. I absolutely did not mention a representative or colleague of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devil anywhere earlier, I mentioned a representative who spoke about criteria, professionalism and what it was mentioned in the previous debate that it also works as a party in terms of assessing expertise... If an esteemed colleague recognized herself alone, that's her problem, and you'd have to see what it is. I don't have that kind of problem. Jovan Vukovljak, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9149	Dear President, fellow MPs. And I'm one of the members of the Commission who valued these candidates who were 15. I'm an educational worker, I've worked for many years in education, and I know what it means to value someone. The question is, are we competent? These are all 15 people who have come from the profession, all 15 people who have at least 25 to 30 years of work, professional and any other work, who have so far performed responsible duties from finance and legal profession. We made the rule by which we scored, and based on their presentations I believed or not, I scored all candidates from 40 to 50, or from 40 to 48 points, because everyone is competent and everyone has a profession. Apparently, they can all be auditors and vice auditors. Believe it or not, I didn't care who it was. This means that based on their exposure, based on the impressions they made, I gave points, and so I made a ranking list and gave it to the chairman of the Commission. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9150	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9151	I'll do it briefly, of course, at this point in the agenda. I'm sorry, when I discussed the first points today, I feel like I was right. Take what we have turned into a representative council of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to European integration, give it as far away as possible to move time, not to deal with what is in the interest. We've actually turned into a committee of appointments. We still haven't touched serious things for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if so, come on, people must have a parliamentary majority to appoint. So I don't want to talk about people at all, put myself in a position to hurt anyone. What I understand at this point in the agenda is the decision of the majority to choose. What's the problem with this country is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an institutionally empty country, a country without a soul. And those who strongly advocate for her do nothing to bring it back. Emptyed... Council of Ministers and Parliament. All institutions are discharges, decision-making centres have been moved from institutions. We just need to confirm that. But if that's the agreement of the majority, I'm only saying this as a well-intentioned MP from the opposition, we will, of course, say our position by voting, confirm it or not, but let's say there's a parliamentary majority, we'll end up naming that we don't bid on the names of people I know of, and I don't really have anything and I don't personally have anything against people. It'd be stupid. So here there is one..., who pointed out by a colleague of Prodanović, there are independent institutions in other countries as well. Their degree of independence is measured either by giving them a longer term than the term of office of the existing parliaments, or it is a longer term of elections, or it takes more time for their election. And really, the more votes an institution needs, the more independent it is. We've turned everything into politics and politics and added spices, it's a nationality, and this country is in huge trouble. We don't seem to see it. But I wouldn't want to be some ominous prophet, a one-way street from Syria towards the European countries. The land of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the way it's being run, I'm afraid we don't find each other for a moment, maybe it doesn't have to be for a long time, and we in one of the columns, and we don't regret not having a face-to-face conversation about our country's problems, to avoid personal address if we can. But that shouldn't bother us if we're looking for the right solution. Why wouldn't it be in the Auditor or Ombudsman's Law that he should be elected by 2/3 of the MPs, so you can see that we would spend the whole morning agreeing together. They would show that each other needs this country, so no one needs us. So, institutional emptyness and let the appointments be completed, that we don't stay until half the night.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9152	Correction of the wrong quote, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9153	Since I made a concrete observation in my discussion, and it was confirmed in this debate, because my colleague said that the evaluation of the candidates was based on their exposure, their exposé. The following is stated in the Report – The Interim Joint Commission adopted its Rules of Procedure at the 2nd session of 07.09.2015. The Rules of Procedure set out the way of work of the Interim Joint Commission, the signing and conditions of the Public Labour Competition, the work after the end of the Public Competition, the public work and the criteria for points, interviews, public hearing, etc. So here it is stated that the criteria for the score and the way of the score were, and you said that the Commission was 66 estimating candidates based on their exposures. I can't have any other knowledge besides reading these documents that the commissions deliver to us, and how the candidates were selected, as it was formed by the ranking list, etc. But then I would ask that attention be paid to these reports and that the way the Commission works be the way it is, that it be in the reports as the Commission has done. So, the Commission did not work on criteria or points were established, but based on an assessment of each candidate, their labour exposure. I think it's very responsible functions and that we should define this choice in the way that it was in previous practices, that the criteria, the way points are established, then it would be a clear and transparent process. I do not, of course, reduce any candidate on the rank list, nor dispute the rank list, but I point out that if the Commission has any practice and works, then it must be stated in the Report, it must be credible and true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9154	Thank you very much. I don't see any reports at the moment. I'm closing the debate. And before we move to point 13, I suggest that the House declares itself on the unification of the debate on points 13 to 16 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. I'm asking the services to put this motion to a vote. Of the 31 present – for 31, no objection, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 10 for, no objection, no abstentions. I find that we have united the debate according to points 13 to 16. Ad. 13. - Ad. 16. Granting consent to ratify the agreement Now I want to say that there is an opinion from the competent Foreign Affairs Committee that you have received in your materials. I'm opening a debate on these points from 13th to 16. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on points 13 to 16. And in this case, we've exhausted today's session agenda. I suggest a 15-minute voting break. Do you agree? So I'll see you at 2:30 for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9158	As far as I'm concerned, he disagrees.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9159	Well, that's what I was gonna say. We're going to the second round of voting. Of the 40 present – for 25, against 13, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH for 24, no, abstention 2, RS for 1, versus 13, has no abstention. There's a general majority but it doesn't exist, so RS. I find that, that we have not adopted the conclusion of the House of Representative Senad Šepić, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly should not be read, is it, when it is not adopted. Okay. Let's go, we're voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, the opinion is negative. Of the 40 present – for 31, against 4... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 35 against 5, there are no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 21 for, 5 against, no abstentions, RS 14 for, no, no, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. So this bill of law is considered...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9161	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-10-28-0.u9162	The opinion was, therefore, adopted and the proposal for a law was considered rejected in accordance with Article 113(2). Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 7. – Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2014, the BiH Presidency's material. Of the 40 present – for 26, against 5, abstentions 9. The Federation of BiH 13 for, 5 against, 8 abstentions, RS 13 for, no objection, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2014. Moving to point 8. – Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the Implementation of the BiH Institution Budget and the International Obligations for 2014, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. 69 We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Do I need to read? You don't have to. We're voting on the conclusions of Aleksandra Pandurević. Of the 40 present – for 21, against 6, abstention 13. The Federation of BiH for 15, no 11 abstentions, RS 6 for, against 6, abstention 2. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted a proposal for the conclusions of MP Aleksandra Pandurević, not to read them, they are in our materials. We are now voting on the adoption of the Report with conclusions from the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. Of the 40 present – for 36, there is no, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 3 abstentions, RS 13 for, no objection, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the Institutions with the conclusions of the Opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. Moving to point 9. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Energy Efficiency in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Đonlagić, who reads, reads, is wanted. You don't have to read. We are voting, so on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Of the 40 present – for 37, there is no, contained 3. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 3 abstentions, RS 14 for, no, no, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a proposal from MP Mirsad Đonlagić, who reads: "It is asked by the Council of Ministers to immediately approach the realization of the conclusions resulting from the audit findings on energy efficiency in BiH institutions. This primarily refers to the development of a plan and a rational use programme in BiH institutions." We are now voting on the adoption of the Report. Of the 40 present – for 38, there is no, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no favour, 2 abstentions, RS 14 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Impact Review Report on "Energy Efficiency in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We're going to point 10. – A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27.08.2015, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the College of the House to establish the agenda and, for the longest time every 60 days, establish a mandatory item of the agenda titled: Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitments on the European path and the level of compliance with BiH's commitments under the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda for the period 2015-2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda of the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives." We are voting on the adoption of a modified initiative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll read it now, slowly, just be patient. So, I would like to say, we are voting on the adoption of a modified initiative, and it reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives undertakes that, in preparing and setting up the agenda, the mandatory item of the agenda with the title: Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path and the level of fulfilment of the commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda for the period 2015.2018. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a item of the agenda at the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives." So we're voting on this modified initiative. Of the 40 present – for 32, there are no, abstentions 8. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 7 for, no objection, 7 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand that we have adopted a modified initiative by Representative Senad Šepić. Moving to point 11. – Appointing three ombudsmans for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We vote on the appointment of three ombudsmans for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these are candidates on the list: Ljubinko Mitrović, Jasminka Džumhur and Nives Jukić. Of the 39 present – for 18, against 11, abstention 10. The Federation of BiH 12 for, 4 against, 9 abstentions, RS 6 for, 7 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general majority and the entity majority, I find that we have appointed three ombudsmen for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina in persons: Ljubinko Mitrović, Jasminka Džumhur and Nives Jukić. Moving to point 12. – The appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions Office, material: the temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor of the BiH Institutions' Office. We are voting on the appointment of Dragan Vrankić as chief auditor and Rank Krsman as deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 7 abstentions 10. The Federation of BiH for 16.1 against, 9 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have appointed the main auditor in the person Dragan Vrankić and Rank Krsman as deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We're going to vote. We are now voting first on the proposal to make a statement on points 13 to 16 in the package. So, first we say we vote in the package. Of the 40 present – 37 for, versus 2, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 12 for, 2 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have united the vote on points 13 to 16. I now call on you to plead, or vote on points 13 to 16. – Giving consent to ratifying the agreement. 71 Out of the 40 present – for 39, against 1, there are no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 13 for, 1 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general majority and the entity majority, I find that we have given consent to ratifying materials from points 13 to 16. I'm closing the 19th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 24 November 2015. I thank you for your cooperation today. Session completed at 3:05 p.m.
