ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5253	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, please take your seats, it's time to go to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 7th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, today's session, as we normally do for each session, has been called on: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, media representatives. The session also invited representatives of the Central Election Commission of BiH whose report is on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs/representers and guests. From today's session, the absence was justified by the only representative of Nermina Kapetanović. According to the information service, there are currently 38 representatives present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The meetings of the following committees were held in preparation for this meeting of the House: the Constitutional Commission, the Finance Commission and the Budget Commission and the Foreign Affairs Commission. At all the sessions there was a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Point 4. MP Damir Arnaut's request to consider the draft law supplementing BiH's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Point 6. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Customs Policy Bill proposal – a proposal: the BiH Council of Ministers. The law is in the second reading. The home college has not reached agreement, we will explain in the second round of voting, so we will vote, we will come out in the second round of voting on the draft law in the second reading. 2 I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5254	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 71. We propose the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to discuss and adopt a new agenda item for the 7th session of the House of Representatives – Decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. The SNSD MPs' club has tabled a proposal to include a new agenda item for the 7th session of the House of Representatives. The proposal for a new point is submitted on the basis of Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and reads – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Presidency, or member of the College of the House of Representatives. A new agenda item is proposed because of the need for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the issue. The current parliamentary majority did not allow this item to be held on the agenda at previous sessions, although the public is very interested in proving the open letter in the case of the "Džaferović" of the Republic's family of captured and killed fighters and missing Republika Srpska civilians. The point is necessary because of the existence of serious accusations expressed through extensive documentation already made available by former Federation Vice-President Mirsad Kebo, on several occasions and in continuity, to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The documentation provided suggests that there is a serious suspicion that Mr. Džaferović did not prevent in the past war, reported or later prosecuted war crimes against Srbin in BiH. Article 27(1)(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given everything the public has recently been informed about, and concerns the current chairman of the House of Representatives, we believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer represent the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or he cannot be the chairman of the House of Representatives, or a member of the College. In view of the new agenda, we consider it necessary, urgent and justified, and we invite the honourable MPs of the House of Representatives to include it in the agenda of the 7th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5255	Thank you very much. Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5256	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a few days ago did an important job. So, I therefore propose that today, the House of Representatives include one new item of the agenda and accept an initiative in which the BiH Representative Parliament calls on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Embassy in the EU member states and the Mission of BiH to the EU in Brussels to give the Secretariat of the Council of the EU, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the 28 EU member states within 15 days of being familiar with the Decision of the House of Representatives and the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH of 23 February this year, which confirmed and adopted the Declaration on the necessary reforms under the EU accession process adopted by the BiH Presidency on 29 January 2015. I've asked our services here to copy and multiply this statement. There is one broad explanation, but what prompted me to propose this initiative is that Mrs Mogerini said that at the first next meeting, to be held on 15 and 16 March, so this is the Council of EU Foreign Ministers, she would propose that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement enter into force. I think that until then we need all relevant institutions to get to the bottom of what we've done, and we need our services around the world to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5257	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5258	Dear President, Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the successful work today at this session, seventh in line. So, I'd be free to propose, in accordance with the article, that 70th on setting the agenda at today's session, that points 7 and 10 be removed from today's session of the agenda. Although I understand that the College in the extended composition, in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, has proposed, therefore, for today's agenda because these points have become mandatory since they have passed a certain procedure, but we are today establishing the agenda here at the beginning of this session as each time. I suggest it for the next reason. Point 7 is because, then, last time, I will remind my colleagues, we have adopted a conclusion that, when discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries, is now approximately counterproductive to what we have adopted when it comes to amending the Law. So the conclusion was that the Council of Ministers prepared a complete solution to amend this Law and all other laws concerning this issue. At the same time, we have, therefore, continued the procedure for the adoption of amendments to the Law, so the abolition of Article 48. And so a lot of, then the remarks at that session, I'll remind you, put out, so, as far as the promoter wanted, did not actually complete the process the way it was supposed to, and that it would not essentially mean what it meant by that. So, in my opinion, you need to take it off the agenda today. It should certainly have been the College in the expanded composition that took note of it, but that in this way it might give another opportunity for these issues to be cleared up, so if nothing in any amendment phase. When it comes to point 10, so I will also remind you, I will also remind you that we have reached one conclusion by which we ask that in the first next session where agreements relating to financial responsibilities will be proposed, that is, the ratification of such agreements in this Parliament, regardless of the levels of government, we have told the Council of Ministers that we will no longer adopt such agreements until we get that information. I suggested it, and at the Expansive College, it didn't go away, and I suggest here, too, that we simply be credible, that we respect that conclusion and 4 that the Council of Ministers delivers that information to us as soon as possible. I am not, therefore, aprioriers against what is in that agreement, this was specifically an agreement for something in Tuzla.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5259	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5260	But here, therefore, I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5261	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm sorry to have to rephrase my colleagues no matter what we had a chance yesterday at an extended college to talk about all this. So I fully understand and am not against such proposals that Bosnia and Herzegovina must know how much Bosnia and Herzegovina is in debt, but since it is a very sensitive thing I want to tell here to my colleagues sitting in this room what this is about. For forty years, Tuzla has no water or has two times a day water. I would recommend anyone who has plenty of water in his town to try to reduce himself a little bit what it means to have water twice an hour. In part, Tuzla solved the problem by cleaning up the water of a lake that is not recommended for swimming. And that lake has been banned for 10 years because this water is highly polluted, but thanks to special technologies, it provides relatively clean and high-quality water that can provide what the citizens of Tuzla need. The people of Tuzla paid all their infrastructure facilities with their own contribution. The people of Tuzla stand as a guarantee that Tuzla will repay this loan. At the same time, I would like to say that in the package that discussed Tuzla, Zenica and Travnik, Travnik gave up, or did not get the consent that he could get the ratification of such a single loan claim because he was not able to pay off this loan. So I don't think this is building a golf course or some things that are luxurious, but that this is meeting the elemental human needs and guaranteeing human rights that you have the right to quality water. At the same time, to say that due to the landing of the Tuzla terrain over the past period, 400 facilities of the most interesting Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian architecture have died.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5263	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5264	and that all this causes the infrastructure to suffer for water and water supply and wastewater. To stop this project when this project is now finally means that the Parliamentary Assembly would put aside those who want to stop this project and implement this project in Tuzla, and that 5 in this way will be qualityd to resolve the elemental right of people of Tuzla to have drinking water and thus to take the sanitary waters from Tuzla. I, therefore, am on the stand that this Parliament should support and remain on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5265	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5266	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5267	I apologize to Mr. Backović, Mr. Saša Magazinović, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5268	I thank the chairman. Article 71 The Rules of Procedure in each of the Rules of Procedures of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall be read as follows: So, I think we're having an unnecessarily debate because the Rules of Procedure have instructed us how we're going to work. Also, for other debates, and not at all diminishing the importance of what a fellow SBB member of the SBB said, Article 2 also says the MP cannot elaborate the essence of the issue when discussing the agenda. So, let's adopt the agenda and we'll talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5269	Thank you very much. Things are perfectly clear and stand by the Rules of Procedure. If no one answers their word anymore, I'll conclude the debate on the agenda. Please, we're moving nicely to a statement, so I'll explain the point by point, so we have a proposal from Mr. Staša Košarac. Prepare to vote on Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives, with six votes in favour, 31 against and 2 abstentions, did not support Mr Staša Košarac's proposal and the Club of SNSD. As far as Mr. Senad Šepić's proposal is concerned, I can put it as a part of the agenda, but this is a matter of default. So this is the thing that includes Mr Šepiću, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the foreign ministry must inform the EU of what the Parliamentary Assembly has done. We don't need a special agenda item on which institutions would commit. I ask you, therefore, that you have this in 6 vision, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Presidency and all the institutions, I guess that's their regular job, it doesn't need Parliament's conclusion now to be about something, to give someone an obligation to do what his job is. I ask you to give up your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5270	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5272	Mr. Chairman. We know what it is, what it is whose obligation it is to do. We also know what position we are in as a country. We're here the other day when we adopted that decision we took on that responsibility that we're going to monitor and we're going to follow the realization of what we've adopted politically here. So I don't think anything can be disputed, and it can't be extra that, in that sense, we, as Parliament's Assembly, are more actively involved in this process. I'm asking you to do this...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5273	Thank you very much. Prepare to vote on Mr. Senad's proposal for šepić. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives, with 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, has accepted this item of the agenda. That'll be the 12th point of the agenda. We're moving on to an explanation regarding Mr. Lovrinović's proposal. I ask the Secretary of the House to explain the situation of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to abandoning mandatory points. Please welcome the secretary to the pay phone, acting secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5274	Thank you. I welcome the MPs present and thank you for letting me introduce you to Article 70. — establishment of the agenda. Like this, Article 70. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall say – the College of the House shall include, in its extended composition, proposals for legislation with opinions referred to in Article 111(1), i.e. the report referred to in Article 123 of this Rules of Procedure, and any other item which is mandatory in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Article 2 - The mandatory point is the one that passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 3 – It shall include on the agenda and other issues which the authorised proposings have provided to the House and which are within its jurisdiction. Item 4. - The college of home in the extended composition does not include any other issues listed in Item 3 of this Article for which the committee has not delivered an opinion. The committee responsible for foreign policy has delivered its opinion so that, according to the Rules of Procedure, this is considered to be a mandatory item of the agenda. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5275	Thank you very much, Secretary. No more discussion. I declare the agenda of the session, let no one be angry, the debate is over, the vote is over. We can't vote on this because these are mandatory points to the Rules of Procedure. I declare today's session agenda: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 3. Comments on questions received; 4. MP Damir Arnaut's request to consider the draft law supplementing BiH's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2/15, of 23.02.2015; 5. Proposal for a Law on Obligation Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/14, of 24.07.2014. (second reading); 6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Customs Policy Bill in BiH – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-35/14, of 15/09/2014. (law in second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, of 08.01.2015. (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Report on the conduct of the 2014 General Elections, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-159/15, of 29.01.2015; 9. Consideration of the initiative of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, who reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, number 79/14), launch an initiative to include in the agenda the points: ‘Information of the Central Bank of BiH on credit users' problems with the CCF indexing clause and measures taken to address these problems’, Act No: 01-50-1185/15, of 30.01.2015; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Meina (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina (primary) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation) and the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica (the project's realisation agency) for 9,490,000 euros (investment) and 1,500,000 euros (additional measures) – The Water Supply and sewerage programme in BiH II, issue: 01,02-05-2-201/15, since 02.02.2015; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the granting of financial assistance for the "A water supply and waste water programme in BiH II" (Refurbishment and upgrade of the water supply and waste water system in the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica), No: 01,02-05-2-232/15, of 09.02.2015; 12.02.2015. Consideration of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Embassy of BiH in the Member States of the European Union and the Mission to the European Union in Brussels to meet within 15 days the Secretariat of the Council of the EU, the European Commission, the European Parliament and 28 members of the European Union with the Decision of the House of Representatives and 8 of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of 23.02.2015, which confirmed and adopted the Declaration on the necessary reforms in the context of the accession process of the European Union, adopted by the BiH Presidency on 29 January 2015", issue: 01-50-1-7.15, since 26.02.2015. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Who wants to talk about the record? Here you go. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to two agendas, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5279	I asked the question about calling for violence and hate on the Internet, hate speech. The issue referred to existing legislation, which can be sanctioned as well as other activities in this direction. I received an answer where it was counted in the criminal laws of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities and the Brcko District of Provisions which specify prison sentences from 3 months to 3 years. It was said in response to the fact that none of the four criminal laws have been prescribed by law enforcement committed by hate on the Internet, but there is no obstacle to Internet hatred being carried out on the basis of prescribed counts of criminal law. What I came forward for was the very end of the answer in which the finding that Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified, adopted above all, and then ratified, the Protocol of the Convention on Cybercrime, which obliges us to adopt legislative measures in terms of the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems, where racist xenophobic material, which represents every written material, every image or any other representation of ideas or theories that confirm or encourage hatred, discrimination or violence based on colour, personal, national, ethnic origin, etc., etc. The bottom line of the answer I've received is that from the moment we ratified this additional protocol that we undertake to legislate this area, it wasn't done. Well, I am taking this opportunity to initiate that new Council of Ministers, which I hope will be formed very quickly, in accordance with our international obligations, raise this issue and propose legislation before us.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5280	Thank you very much, Mr. Magazinović. Since no one's answering my phone again, I'm closing the argument. Let's get to the point of the four agenda, that's it, Ad. 4. MP Damir Arnaut's request to consider the draft law supplementing BiH's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 23.02.2015 with a request for an urgent examination in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. You've been given a bill of law. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who wants to talk? Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5282	I thank the chairman. As everyone in this House is undoubtedly known, the Central Election Commission of BiH delivered a comprehensive and detailed report on the implementation of the 10 elections in 2014. The report is correct and it will be on the agenda for this session, so I will not enter the details of the report itself. However, this report contains, among other things, two recommendations, one relatively general nature and the other very specific. And the recommendation is that since the Serbian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH is not fully filled, four delegates are missing in the club. Of the required 17, it was successful to meet, in accordance with the existing provisions of the Electoral Law, 13 places alone. The Central Election Commission has suggested, for this reason, a solution is possible for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to approach an emergency, stressing the urgency, because this is the item of the agenda, an urgent procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the BiH Election Law, and for these elections it regulates the granting of mandates to unselected candidates from the cantonal lists in the House of Peoples of the Federation. The Central Election Commission also stressed in this recommendation that the principle of urgency of retroactive regulation and full application was applied to the National Assembly of the RS after the 2006 elections. I remind you, it's January 28th, we all got it on January 29th. And since no one has responded on this issue in the meantime, we have sent a proposal for a law supplementing BiH's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. The point is, I remind you again, of an emergency procedure, so I'll try to keep as much as possible on the subject as possible. I would like to stress that this is a recommendation from the Central Election Commission of BiH. So, we've rewritten the maltenes of their recommendation, that is to say, the format of the bill and presented it to this House. But it's not just, so it's essentially this recommendation that it be an emergency procedure, and that's what we did. In addition, I remind you that nearly 5 months have passed since the 2014 general elections and that the Serbian People's Club in the House of the Federation Peoples is still incomplete. Now Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is certainly said several times in these benches, but it is worth reminding, Bosnia and Herzegovina is an extremely specific country and therefore we have a number of institutions that predict the parity of the constituent peoples. This is the only institution in which the parity is foreseen and where the parity is not respected. So, the BiH Presidency, the House of the People of the State Parliament, the Council of the People of the Republic of RS, even the Council of Ministers in a particular segment, so all these institutions in them respect the parity, we do not have parity in the House of Peoples of the Federation, and I will be free to say that this is a real shame and that this issue is necessary as soon as possible. Also, when it comes to an emergency procedure, Article 133. The rules of procedure of this House stipulates that such a procedure is allowed even when the bill is formulated in such a simple way that it can be fully adopted or rejected. This proposal also meets the criteria set out in the Rules of Procedure. Now, given that there are likely to be some discussions on the constitutionality of the law, let me look back on the subject, and then I also stress that if there is a need for replication, that is, I reserve the right to replicate. The Federation of BiH constitution clearly maintains that the composition of the Federation of BiH House of Peoples will be parity. However, it does not stop there, it says – so that each constituent people has the same number of delegates, so an extremely explicit provision, leaves us to think about what parity means, but says that each constituent people will have the same number of delegates. Then the next position of the same member says it will be 17 delegates in the order of every constituent nation. This is not respected in the House of Peoples of the Federation, and this is a constitutional provision, a provision of the Federation of BiH Constitution. At a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, when this CEC report was discussed, some members pointed out that this could not be applied in the way the Central Election 11 Commission proposed and what proposal we adopted through our Bill proposal, because there is a member of the Federation Constitution who really says that the delegates of the House of Nations choose the cantonal congregations from the order of their delegates. However, I also remind that the follow-up of the member says -- proportionate to the national structure of the population. And then the question arises how does the second round provided for in Article 10(6)? Election law how is he possible? This second round, I remind you again, predicts that if in a particular canton that provides for a certain number of delegates you cannot choose these delegates, then you go to another canton. So you're already violating this proportionality of the national structure of the population. And the next attitude -- the proportion of canton residents -- is also being violated as soon as you go to another canton. And now to return only to the CEC recommendations, so I have already said, I have already read what the Central Election Commission said in its recommendation, she said this should be completed by emergency procedure, or she suggested that this should be completed by emergency procedure and then given several solutions. We have accepted the first of these solutions, we believe it is correct to do so from the list of cantonal congregations, or unselected candidates from a given constituent people by the number of votes won, and we have accepted this proposal from the CEC. However, what may be even more important for the debate, when it comes to constitutionality. The CEC gave several options and then said also – some other solution is possible, according to the legislator's decision. So he left us with another undefined solution, as decided by the legislator, making sure that the same must not be contrary to the provisions of the Federation of BiH constitution that regulate this matter. So the CEC gave us a few concrete solutions, and then he said you can and someone third just can't be the opposite of the Constitution. So, if the CIK thought these first two were the exact opposite of the Federation Constitution's provisions, I guess it would point out that. No, it was only the Central Election Commission that pointed out when it offered this third imaginary solution to the legislator's decision. Anyway, just to get back to what's really important here is that the suggestion of the Central Election Commission to get rid of this as soon as possible, i.e. by an emergency procedure. So our proposal was formulated mainly on the basis of the recommendation and the vote on the proposal supports the Central Election Commission's recommendation, the vote against it is obviously not in agreement with the Central Election Commission's recommendation. And when it comes to constitutional provisions, I will remind you that there are five lawyers sitting on the Central Election Commission. And although I will have the opportunity to do so during the debate on their report, here I am also taking this opportunity to thank them for an extremely correct and comprehensive detailed report on the conduct of the general elections in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5283	Thank you. Mr. Magazinović, business intervention. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Business intervention, Mr. Magazinović. You'll get your word after Mrs. Krišto, because she's next. _________(?) 12 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5286	Thank you, Chairman. Article 133 of the emergency procedure. So now we're not talking about the essence of the law. We're talking about an emergency procedure. And once we have finished the debate, if they need to or do not need to consider this law in an emergency procedure, only then we open a debate on the law itself, on the report of the Central Election Commission, the constitutional basis, the concrete provisions of the law, etc. Therefore, Article 3 says – when an emergency procedure is applied for, the debate is being held. If the House is adopted, the debate on the essence of the law continues. I don't think at this point we should be discussing the very essence of the matter before we determine whether this is an emergency procedure or not. Unfortunately, I have not heard the proponent's explanation as to why the urgency of this law, the consideration of emergency procedures, is necessary. The House has been established, for, essentially, the intention is fine, but here is the promoter himself, informing us that there is a delay whether this is in accordance with the Federation Constitution or not, so I think it is best that this goes in a regular procedure, that our Constitutional Commission determines whether or not there is a constitutional basis and then we consider it, and if it is in accordance with the Constitution and we adopt this law. So I'm paying attention to the urgent procedure, not the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5287	Thank you very much. So, the remark is in place. Business intervention has its basis in the Rules of Procedure. The replica was sought by Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5288	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote. Mr. Magazinović said I didn't explain why this was an emergency procedure. I absolutely did. So, although you exception this that the Law is formulated, in such a simple way it can be fully adopted or rejected. I mean... it's much more important what I said, which is that it's a shame that the House of Peoples of Parliament is a Federation of Horses, that the two nations have 17 delegates, and that one has 13. So I did explain it, I used this explicit finding that it was a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5289	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5290	You obviously didn't listen to me. I say that I agree with the essence and intent of this Law, but you yourself have pointed out that there is a delay whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. 13 Therefore, the urgency of the procedure in this way implies that the Constitutional Commission should be bypassed. It would be good, since we have a Constitutional Commission in this House, and it doesn't mean anything if this is going to be discussed now or in 15 days in terms of urgency, that the Constitutional Commission will declare whether this law has a constitutional basis. If it's any of my business, I'll be the first to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5292	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I support what my colleague Magazinović said. We talked about this in Constitutional Law for a few hours. Solutions are not unconstitutional solutions that will bring us more headaches and we cannot introduce a practice to bring something that is not in line with the entity and lower constitutions. If we talk about shame then we need to talk about the cause, not the consequences, and the reason is that there are no Srbin in the Federation and I can't even get ahold of this House of Peoples. And that's what we need to eliminate, not the consequences of the existing condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5293	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5294	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you all. Here, while respecting the debate that went through and through, in a way, the explanation of the amendments to the Bill's proposal to supplement the electoral law, and the replicas that were, I agree that the debate on urgency should contain an explanation for urgency and that we adhere to it in the context of this debate, and of course if we are discussing in the framework of regular procedure or some other argument. However, like many others, I may in some way, along with these arguments and fully respecting business provisions, use my right in some way and say something. When it comes to election law I will say this is a game, election law is a law that is right behind the Constitution. The electoral law is also a law that is both political and professional, both legal and any other nature and it is a systematic law that implies seriousness. The electoral law has been working and supplementing it in the past term and we have made proposals from the Central Election Commission through the Interresor Group, from legal organisations to some other positions necessary for change. Of course, it failed to get the required majority. Today we came with a proposal to amend, or to supplement the Election Law in a way that fills the Serbian Club. I haven't seen it anywhere yet, there's still comparisons being made so that this club should be filled out because it's filling in in the same way. Gentlemen, we know that the second round is filled with delegates, let's say either for a Serbian or some other club that is not filled, but from the ranks of those who have been elected to the cantonal congregations, and not as the proposal for addition of Law 14 here suggests with a list that has not passed. This is a game of law for me. I therefore propose that we all be serious, not to accept this today, nor the procedure for amending the Election Law in a way that would be proposed by one MP or a specific political option. I think that at the level of electoral legislation we should all agree, it is the first test for all of us, and in a special way, I will say, and the parliamentary majority, which is in some way formed. That's what we need to start from, that's what this Bosnia and Herzegovina needs in a lot of ways, not just when it comes to the fill of a club. And I wouldn't talk either if it was a club full of shame. If we introduce shame as a way of reason, then it can be described in another way and be an explanation for many other things, not just for the fulfillment of this club. And I will also say, of course, I answered before the president of the party from which we come from, he will also say our views, but we will not support it quickly either, but we will propose the formation of an Interresor Working Group that would make full changes to the law and that would allow this BiH to progress and make it truly a state of equal peoples and citizens living in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5295	Thank you very much. Mr. Arnaut, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5296	I thank the chairman. Here's to sum up then, since it's questionable whether an urgent request is warranted. So, in light of the urgent procedure request that we have delivered to the College of the House, we clearly refer to the recommendation of the Central Election Commission of BiH, which is said to be – for this reason, it is possible for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to approach the urgent procedure for the adoption of the Law on Complementary of the Election Law, and for this very election to regulate the mandate of elected candidates from the cantonal parliaments of the House of Peoples of the Federation. That's one. And the second, also in accordance with Article 133, as provided for by this article – if the bill is drawn up in such a simple way that it can be fully adopted or rejected, be careful about the draft law supplementing the Election Law, one member absolutely meets both criteria so that the argument is definitely not questionable.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5297	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5298	Thank you. So, first of all, I'd ask Mr. Arnaut not to freak us out, so if we don't support the election commission's position that we're against their position, then he doesn't freak us out with it. And Mr. Saša used, therefore, a business intervention to still take away my exclusive to say what, he actually participated in the debate and said why he wasn't in an emergency 15 procedure. And I also think, now there's no point in me repeating what he's already said. And on the other hand, the urgency of the amendment to the election law has a great deal to do with it. If we just remember that it's been three years since the Mostar elections, then, or more. If we just remember the debate that was here and led by the Electoral Commission, so on the work of the election boards and a series of other issues that are also urgent, and this urgency has been removed, as my colleague Saša said, so here I am now, cutting down my debate and we will also be, as the deputy lady said, against doing this procedure. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5299	I'm very grateful that you've shortened the debate, thank you. Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5300	Thank you very much. So, I am for the completion of these homes, but I would like to think about it in terms of urgency and in terms of amendment, whether these provisions are the place as it is written in part of the law, Article 20.12.c) or whether this should be behind the provisions of Articles 10.16 and 10.17 of the Electoral Law, because they are talking about the fulfillment of the House of Peoples. Whether these provisions apply even after the 2014 elections, so whether they are general, whether this applies only to the completion after the '14 elections. Or in '18, '22, and any other choices? Of course, the issue of constitutionality regarding elected MPs to the cantonal assembly, which is the basis, so they enter the homes of the people, this time would make a precedent for those who were not elected to the cantonal parliament. And under three, so the Electoral Commission has proposed the formation of an Interresor Group. Yes, it is true what counterpart Arnaut said in this previous one, that three variants are offered, but the CEC also proposes the formation of an Interresor Working Group. With all this about urgency, therefore, I am of course for the homes of the people to be filled in as the Constitution says and that we need to create assumptions in the Electoral Law that they are filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5301	Thank you, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will try not to repeat the discussions of my colleague Arnaut, nor of my colleagues Rančić, but I would remind myself, however, that this is not about, as Mrs Krišto said, the amendment of the law that will apply to the future but rather about the Law amending the law, and therefore it is in the emergency procedure to solve the problems recorded after the elections that were held on 12.10 this year, and this here in the position of Article 20, point 12, point (c) is clearly stated in the proposal that we have by the CEC. And here, this position of course that speaks – for these reasons it is possible that the Parliamentary Assembly only for these, to resuscitate, conditionally saying, the shortcomings which are evident in the fulfillment of one club after these elections, and that will not affect and disrupt any amendments to the Election Law in the future or refer to future provisions of the law in which clubs can be filled. So this is about not repeating 16 mistakes that were repeated during previous election periods when we also had one club that wasn't fully filled, so we know very well what kind of problems it caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5303	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5304	Since we are still here discussing procedure and urgency, not urgency, etc., we obviously do not want to enter the metrics, or what is the essence, that our whole electoral law is... and the combination of electoral legislation more countries and that it is ineffective. It's undivided. Namely, yes, I am absolutely to create completeness, equality, and there is no dilemma. I don't have any dilemmas here. And then we come to this whether to go into full change of law. Because we have the law as we have in the electoral system within the Federation, the choice of the House of Peoples through the canton congregations, Article 8. The constitution needs to be read well, I guess it needs to be changed first, and then it needs to be changed. If we don't, then there's no change to this because it's not constitutional, because Article 8 is precisely defined. But then if we don't join in full, we'll have political interference in this country like we did in these elections, we had one political option buy five MPs, another political option brings them into the assembly, and this one buys them. So we had this in the former assembly by the cantonal congregations, the federal ones, precisely because we have an election law that's flawed. And I agree that we're going towards the solution as soon as possible, and we're going to find it, but we're also going to approach what Mrs. Krišto was talking about. We simply need to find a modus for this country. Since we have the arrangement we have, we need to find a way to balance the overall political situation, because we have more political interference here than balance. That's why Dodik has most. Buy yourself someone and get it over with. That's why in the last election, Canton Sarajevo had what he had. One political option, here, sitting next to me, buying an MP and having a majority. And so on. We must finally start talking that we have an inadequate electoral system. And Mr Mikić, since I know you, I speak well, let's move towards a full amendment to the Election Law and bring that law in line with EU legal standards. Because this, on the election list, the MP gets 200, and the party gets 10,000 and then he says I'm chosen by the people and I'm no longer there by myself right now. It's something that doesn't make sense, which doesn't make any healthy sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5305	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5306	Oh, come on. There is no reason here to open this, this kind of discussion, I just want to react to a part of my colleague Backović's discussion which referred to the political option that sits next to him. I, for all I know, that political option was in the opposition in Canton, but I'm allowing him, as a representative from the Canton Assembly, to have some vision of it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5307	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Isaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5308	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome, therefore, all present and guests. What I would like to say and the replica refers to Mr Backović's presentation, so this when it comes to changing the current urgency, that's under point a), so in this Central Election Commission report it's the part that we eliminate, or define in point a). And under b) stands – to join the establishment of an Interresor expert task force for amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. So this means one full amendment to the Election Law. This would, therefore, be essentially that this part of the first floor (a) is a temporary solution and filling it with all equal numbers of delegates, and under (b) would therefore be to join the formation of an Interresor Group that would amend the entire Electoral Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5309	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5310	A replica in two sentences to my colleague Magazinović. When I said the political option to me, yes, I meant that political option and the formation of the first government of the Canton of Sarajevo SDP-SDA when overcame the MP BPS, the official MP who bought it. In the right sense of the word, in every form, without any investigative authority having responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5311	Thank you very much. The discussion was answered by the chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5312	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there are any conditions for this law to be considered either by an emergency or by a reduced procedure. This law should go into regular procedure and be reflected in all possible aspects. The key problem here is that this Law has a constitutional basis, so it has its constitutional basis in the BiH Constitution, but is not in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, because however the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has the right to regulate this matter by its law for all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also has an obligation to respect the constitutional acts of 18 other organisational forms of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to prescribe rules concerning election procedures based on them. That's why they didn't get the terms. Because in order for us to change this law, we must call on the BiH Federation Parliament to change the Constitution urgently. And it is possible to do so, because this club should be filled in urgently and must not wait four years for us to have an unfulfilled Serbian People's Club in, a delegation of the Serb people to the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH. It's very simple. He cannot be a member of the House of People according to an existing constitutional solution in the Federation to anyone who is not a member of the Cantonal Assembly. An exception must be made in the Constitution and then said – this should remain a rule, and the constitutional norm would be in exceptional cases when it is not possible then it will be done in such a way and in such a way, and after that we have the authority to adopt amendments to the Election Law. It's all possible to do as long as this law is in the process, if there's any good will, and I hope it'll be a good will in the Federal Parliament. And what we need to do today, on the report of this Central Election Commission, to call on the Federal Parliament to approach this change. I'm not going to go into any further elaborate, because then it wouldn't be a matter of procedure, a lot of things I have to say about this particular solution, what would happen to the existing one, where it would lead, where it would lead, believe me, when you detailedly evaluate this, we would get into a situation that would be worse than the situation we have right now. And let me say that there can be no justification for the constitutionality or justification of an act, there may be existing solutions that may be discriminatory from the aspect of the Constitution. That's not how it works. The way is to problem these solutions, not to produce new similar solutions. I call on the House of Representatives not to accept today, first of all I call on the Proposer to, given this debate, give up both the emergency and the shortened procedure, that this goes into regular procedure, and if not, then I call on the House of Representatives not to accept the emergency and not to accept the shortened, which means that it approves the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5313	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Mirsad Đonlagić picked up the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5314	I thank Mrs. Krišto. Of course, I'm sorry I'm not a lawyer, I'm not really sorry I'm not a lawyer, but I'm sorry to report back on these things that, come on conditionally speaking, are legal matters, and I'm reviewing a commission that consists of dominant of lawyers or are all lawyers, they know that problem very well. And I call on this recommendation they made here that for this reason it is possible for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to approach the urgent process of adopting the Law on the Completion of the Election Law. That is one thing, and the other I would also call on the Constitutional Commission to conclude, given that it is said that it is not in line with the Constitution, and here in this position of the 4th of these conclusions or the fourth conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, it is said that the Constitutional Commission calls on the Federation of BiH Parliament to adopt the appropriate amendments to the Federation of BiH Constitution if it is deemed necessary and based on which amendments to BiH's electoral legislation could be made. Of course, I just want to remind myself of one more fact, and that is how sensitive the question is and how I would say, very complexly, the amendment of the Constitution. This package will open up with a lot of 19 problems because each time, as you would say, apart from what it wants to change, it's going to come to the agenda and something else that might not fit any of the political options, so it can be a very, very big problem. So this is about the need to coordinate something that is a problem that came up after these elections and that the problem is solved. And I'm surprised that the people of that people don't support what needs to be solved when it comes to that people. So, here I have no intention of even answering for discussion anymore and depolmising this, but I don't think we're going to make a mistake if we approach the debates and amendments to the Electoral Law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5315	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Borislav Bojić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5316	In short, a replica concerning the very people to whom a solution should be found in the Federation, namely the introduction of practices in which laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina would change entity constitutions. We recognize the hidden intention that tomorrow will be some new emergency procedure that would change the Republika Srpska Constitution. So that's what we recognize from the order of the Serbian people. I do not believe you will solve the problem of the Serb people in the Federation, I am not convinced. It seems to me that you have more hidden intentions than the real desire to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5317	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5318	Well, at the same conclusion, it's a replica. In fact, we are not going to solve the problem by bringing a provision that is not in agreement with the Constitution, but we are going to get more problems than we had. Now we have one problem, we can't fill in, then we'll have a problem we won't fill in, we'll have the law opposite the Constitution. So it's quite clear here the Constitutional Commission said, you know. Even I think that we have made a compromise, so we have said if necessary, so it is left to the Federation Parliament that it appreciates whether it is necessary to amend the Federation Constitution or not or possible without changing the Federation Constitution. So we've made a compromise, unfortunately we're better off not making it, because now this compromise has been used here in this way. So, I will simply never be the one to adopt laws that are contrary to any constitution in BiH, so also to the Constitution of BiH and to the constitution of entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5319	Thank you very much. The replica was answered by Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5320	Thank you very much. I'd just have a replica on a previous statement that the SBB had hidden intentions. We have to be clear here, the SBB had no hidden intentions or in its program has any hidden intentions. So the intention is quite clear that all nations participate equally, therefore, in this election cycle and be equally filled as everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5321	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5322	So, I don't want to deal with, to tell the forecasts whether or not you had hidden intentions, but the introduction of this kind of procedure introduces a practice in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which, consequently, can be applied tomorrow for amendments to the RS Constitution. So we do not agree in a way that the Parliamentary Assembly can change the entity's constitution. And that's where I recognize that kind of hidden intention, without telling you that that's exactly how much you want to advocate that the issue of the Serbian people be resolved in the Federation. I'm not entirely convinced of that. But I have, therefore, recognised that your initiative may later have serious problems and consequences when it comes to the possibility that the Parliamentary Assembly should approach some kind of change that would not be agreed to by the entity from which I come, Republika Srpska. I recognized that, so this kind of initiative, and it seems to me that the best possible solution is exactly what the Constitutional Commission has proposed, which says that this is a really wide range of issues and problems that all parliamentary parties need to solve, and opposition and positions and come up with a solution, because this is not the only problem standing in electoral legislation, it has mass. Therefore, it is something that should not be solved over the knee, rather it should be dealt with very systematically by respecting all that the Central Election Commission has said, which it has all faced when it comes to an election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is as complicated as Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5323	Thank you very much. Mr. Arnaut, you've had a discussion and two replicas, you've exhausted rights on this agenda point. Who else wants to talk? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Tell me, you can't, it's a replica, the correction of a false quote is a replica, you've had two interventions and a discussion, you can't get a word on this agenda point anymore. Who else wants to talk? If no one ever answers my word again, I'll conclude a debate on this agenda point. 21 Let's go to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Civil Aviation Relations in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course, after the second phase, we're actually in phase two and after the first phase in a very short time I don't think it makes any sense to repeat everything we've said in previous discussions since after, in fact, that in the first phase we had the consent and positive opinions of four working bodies and, of course, adopted by the House of Representatives with the vast majority, we can almost say unanimously. Yesterday and in this second phase, i.e. in the second reading of the Finance and Budget Commission, we received agreement, and the Commission accepted it, in fact, on the day before yesterday, with a large majority, we can almost say unanimously. And since there has been no change I would not further explain here only I would appeal, once again, to all the representatives sitting in this room to understand the seriousness of this situation and to take according to, and with relevant interpretations of the lawyers by abolishing this Article 48. practically abolishing white bread regardless of what is pointed out in the previous discussions. So here I would no longer talk about this, and I call once again on my colleagues to accept this proposal and to vote positively today in relation to this proposal, the law amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5329	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5330	Thank you. So here I tried, so at the beginning of the session, to suggest that the agenda be taken down, I wasn't in the Rules of Procedure as it is said, so I wasn't in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know when that point D is when something becomes mandatory. So the moment the Expansive College receives it, then it becomes mandatory and here we have it on the agenda, even though there is something there that has to be said about my proposal, it doesn't matter. I just want to remind you that I guess we haven't forgotten what we talked about last time about everything that caused this proposal with the best intentions, so... we wanted and had. I also suggested some amendments to the Finance Committee, they weren't accepted. I am sorry they may have been the solution just to resolve the dilemmas relating to other articles of this same law and other laws concerning the provisions, or these amendments proposed to get us out of this situation, however, and we have the conclusion, if I am not mistaken, that the Council of Ministers will simply approach the whole solution of this issue, so pay and compensation from officials. Here, now we have one situation, so we've adopted a conclusion that requires it from the Council of Ministers, we have to go, it's already in the final part of this procedure when it comes to the House of Representatives to pass this law. It seems to me that this is a good play and I can't take away the impression, so I'm really sorry that as a member of this State Parliament, I don't know if I'm going to use a harsh word, so we're lying to the public that we're going to end the white bread, and we just can't do it with these changes. That's what we said last time, first of all, it's going to remain in the same law that's talking about it. So, we didn't fully approach that, and I just don't know why, which is why Mrs. Deputy told me at one point that it's a populist approach. 23 Okay, there's no problem, I mean, if I couldn't already influence that, finally, we're probably interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and we're owned to make any decision in this House, we haven't made a statement about this today, nor on the Expanded College. So here's the conclusion: - If a statement on this is delayed today and an attempt to extend the amendment phase in order for us to conclude, let the new thinking might lead to a situation, so that, finally, we have a solution that will be acceptable to everyone, which will not be just a game for the public and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5331	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm sorry that here it turns out that today as this session is going on, I keep replicating Mr. Lovrinović, but given the circumstances, I'm forced to do it, and I'm going to do it again. Therefore, Article 48, which is deleted from the bill, deletes white bread. No matter how hard the words are used here – lie, deception, pulsism, it is not our intention that the people are really going to point out a year ago as a priority of abuse and inadmissibility, because they have experienced the complete opposite of their application of this provision so-called. White bread to be abolished as a possibility of eradicating Article 48. We also don't see at all any, as I would say, meaning and the possibility that, despite the fact that a member of 48 is abolished, they will again make some decisions that will have that weight. The amendments Mr. Lovrinović made spoke about reduced and changed relations, but still retaining that white bread. The passing of this law requires the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina from us, and not for one moment does it bother the Council of Ministers to fully look at this issue, not only, but also other issues regulated by similar laws. So that's not a distraction, these are two processes that complement each other. But here, we're sorry that we have to keep saying that it's not populism, that it's not a lie, that it's not a fraud, that we do it honestly, and we think honestly. And whoever thinks it's a lie and a fraud, let him put it in his own vote, but I call you here once again all present to show the people good faith, that this thing that's come forth... we end it as a legal possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5333	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5334	Well, somehow, you may have been referring to me today, or it doesn't matter, but you keep saying something about who's against this and some threats, so whoever's against the Election Commission's report, that's what's gonna be against their position, so I'll be against what you suggested. I won't be against it, therefore, but I wanted to take part in it personally, and the club wanted 24 to participate in it and contribute to the solution. And I don't think you came all the way from that, so. First of all, wherever I open any media space, I hear it's 6.5 million marks. We've had a direct report from the Council of Ministers that in the last two years it's about 300 thousand marks, so isn't that a lie? What 6.5 million marks, where you calculated and how and when? So that's the first thing we start with, and some savings you're talking about, and we're talking about other things that can be talked about in savings. Therefore, I intended to participate with you together in this and our club, however, this is obviously not possible, to find a solution in which it will be more appropriate to address the issue of using such a right. I don't think they're all in the same position and I don't think it's just a solution to the elimination, that's what you call it, a solution to this situation, I don't think that's the case. But here, you just don't accept it and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5335	Thank you very much. Mr. Magazinović Saša, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5336	Well, we're still a little bit of a stalker, uh, I apologize for reporting a little more often for business intervention, but I think it makes sense to speed up Parliament's work and get into these business finesse. Article 125 says – Second reading, and we are now on second reading, consists of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments following the order of members concerned. The proposed amendments concerning the same article shall be discussed, etc., etc. Therefore, no amendments have been submitted to this Law. We are in the second reading, obviously repeating discussions from the previous session when this Law was, when we discussed principles and I think we should, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, focus a little on debate and vote. I mean, I'm not saying anything new.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5337	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to warn this article in 125, but here's Saša beat me to it, but this one, and to tell Mr. Lovrinović, I didn't think of him, I've never threatened anyone in my life. Maybe that's my weakness, but, uh, here, I point that out and I accept that I'm not aggressive enough to threaten someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5339	Thank you for trying to help us who are holding the session, but believe that we know the Rules of Procedure well, there is enough of us here and believe that there will be no harm to the Rules of Procedure once. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has a replica, but I'm not going to have a discussion with anyone, you said, thank you for the intervention. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5340	So I suggested a conclusion. It's a debate, Mr. Saša went away so it's a debate as he said and I also suggested the conclusion to postpone the plea, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5341	Just deliver it to us in writing, everything will be placed in the appropriate Rules of Procedure provided for in the procedure. Mr. Zaim Backović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5342	I came to the discussion to confirm the discussion, i.e. because there is no discussion because there is no amendment and we are discussing the same thing that we discussed, now Saša and the promoter have already said that, means the political option that I represent BPS – Sefer Halilović, in part, supports that we are going towards abolishing the privileges that we did not have and that we have them after the end of the mandate that we have. And once again, I confirm here, that no one has ever used white bread from the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party, no one has ever been on white bread, so from cantonal to state-owned parliaments, no one has ever been on white bread. I'm just asking you to apply the law, to apply it, to get a little bit after this, if we adopt it and we support it, to comb the other laws, because it can easily happen that what we adopt in practice is inapplicable. This law is about a set of laws, a set of laws, you deny, I'll take an example of myself doesn't apply to me, but it's easier for me not to mention others, it's my right to go to work in a regular process in the next period of time, because it's going to be in conflict of interest, and then I'm going to be on the street. We need to find a way not to be on the street, not me, I'm talking not me, but one number of our colleagues because other laws are treating it in another way, and we have to solve it. So, by eliminating ourselves we don't solve the problem because you don't have the right under the Labour Act, here I come right back, deny the right to work. We've denied it by some law, by denying it, then you must provide him with his life. And so that's one conglomerate of relationships, which is why I suggest that after this we go into full procedure, because we have to solve the problem completely after the term of office. This is treated like a regular job, these are people who are in a professional relationship, so that's where they get their internship, pension, health care, everything works out. There's no notice here, the deadline is the election, the term of office, the term of office, if he has a notice now. And we have defined that notice by ban, so that I may not list now all those who have been forbidden, those who have performed their duty. That's why we need to find a way to solve this problem. As far as white bread is concerned, we're part-time for lifting and one more, I know you can't legally write it, but all those who've had a previous day's employment... go back to their jobs, that's one thing. Secondly, all those who have acquired retirement conditions have no white bread, so then you have a thousand other solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5343	Thank you. Replica Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5344	I thank the chairman. It's just that absolutely we never questioned the extensive, extensive changes of how the Law on Salaries and Refunds, other changes that are tied up, but white bread is something that really requires an urgent solution. I'm sorry that it wasn't considered in the brief procedure that we asked for, and here we came relatively quickly to a solution without that shortened procedure. However, there is only one thing I will look back on, Mr Backović, with all due respect, white bread does not establish the right to work, establish the right to unhappiness and one enormous unwarranted fee for this unhappiness and that is why white bread is so special to everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5345	Thank you very much. Mr. Salko Sokolović, I apologize Salko, Mr. Zaim Backović Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5346	Dear colleague Arnaut, we're talking about the same thing, but obviously in two different ways, the same thing. That white bread creates the right to unhappiness and ease of work, but we also banned other laws from working. So, to come to this, the set of laws must be changed, we must not prohibit the right to work, if we forbid it to work and still lift its right to receive what we bring to it, what position do we put a man in? We can't speak now of heights, not heights, are different heights, you have in Tuzla canton and Sarajevo's significant income differences, I don't know, in Hercegovic-Neretva and Posavina, we can't talk about that now, about those categories. We're supposed to say white bread is gone, but then it's bringing about a change in the set of laws and a alignment with a series of laws, so we're about to abolish. And here's what we're going to vote for, but it won't give a result, it won't give because you have other laws on the other side that are now preventing people from working, we can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5347	Thank you very much. Mr. Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I welcome all present. Here we are during the debate in the first reading of the proposed legal solution almost everything that we heard, I want to remind us that I also said that it is a little... with someone, not a bad intention, but a clumsy proposer has entered this story by forgetting that he treats members of the Law on Salary and Refunds in BiH institutions and Article 30 (S) and Article 39a. And we've already figured that out once, and we've also talked about Article 5. The law of conflict of interest. I think that today we should adopt this Law and apply the long-standing conclusion proposed by 27 Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here I will read it now so that we no longer discuss these things that we once talked about, means: The Council of Ministers is obliged to prepare and refer to the procedure for the adoption of amendments to the entire legislation relating to the obligations and rights of appointed and elected officials in BiH institutions, including the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, which means that it will treat Article 30 and Article 39a, and the Law on Conflict of Interest, which means that it will treat a member of the 5th Law, in which it is explicitly in a certain period of time, selected and appointed officials, prohibits after the end of the term of office functions on certain functions, etc. So that's how we're going to round up this procedure, if this happened to us because we don't work systemically, we would systematically work to have the Council of Ministers formed, that the parliamentary majority is going into this procedure, the opposition is going on, and it doesn't matter that the position isn't part of this story, because in this way we're sure to solve this problem. Furthermore, the further commitment of the Council of Ministers has been defined through the conclusion we adopted at the previous session. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5349	Thank you. Mr. Fehim Škaljić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5350	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, present, good day to you. We didn't miss anything when we proposed these amendments to the Law, we actually wanted to open up one of Pandora's long-term injustice boxes, which affects both citizens and officials, and we have a situation where I can gladly conclude that we have passed this Law today. Why? Because this esteemed House supported the course of amending the Law in its first reading, and respected MPs did not take advantage of the possibility of the amendment intervening to such text. Therefore, what we have adopted in the first reading, to confirm it today, and in fact to commit ourselves to the whole legislative procedure, which stands before us, to ensure the harmonisation of the legislative form and the justice that is needed to stand before parlament and to come out of Parliament. That is why I propose that today's debate on this brings an end to the commitment to approach the vote and I call on all Parliament officials whose vote today is important that by accepting these changes we actually announce to the public that we will deal with issues of regulation of relations that will bring justice in the distribution of public incomes and in general the regulation of standards that will be a perspective for BiH and its European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5351	Thank you. The word has, as a replica, Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5352	Thank you. 28 Just for a very short time, so when it comes to the possibility of amendment action, it was not possible to act in amendment because in your text of the law, everything that needs to be contained in the matter under discussion is not contained. It is impossible therefore, I know that you know what the legislative procedure is, you know that we do not have the opportunity to act on the basic text, nor on the text of the law which also regulates this issue and is not contained in your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5353	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5354	Good afternoon, everyone. I will be very brief, because I also had a debate at the last session when this was discussed and when I tried to interest all of you in the material that the Finance and Budget Committee requested, and was unanimously confirmed by the Council of Ministers and, as was then, ignored by the material, which no one had any objections to, but simply ignored, it continued through the working bodies and here we are at the end, and therefore I am assessing this move as purely selective, purely political, absolutely neglected what we have warned, that we should be systematically resolved, that... which would be adopted in this Parliament for the next period, that is, the term of office is being solved. So we've come to the impression that some are for the people and the people, absolutely denying some other things, ignoring the data and bringing up numbers that have nothing to do with life. You have received all receipts by name since 2008 when this Law is in force until today, it has nothing to do with this and I am sure that by adopting this Law you will simply because of this, I would say, the desire to apply something more damaging than the benefit expressed in figures. I am obliged to warn that the simple adoption of such a law is contrary to constitutional provisions, the Law on conflict of interest and other laws and, by my assessment, this is the way in the corrupt activities of those who end their mandate and tomorrow have nothing to do. Normally there will be abuse of position, guessing, and perhaps even in that entrepreneurial spirit, perhaps that is the intention. So to ignore all this, I don't think it's good, and I want the new Council of Ministers' convocation to be in a different position than it was my Council, because we used to make unanimous decisions, and at the same time here by revote and what's good and professional to bring it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5355	Thank you. Mr. Đorđo Krčmar has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5356	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs. I'm going to be very brief just that, I don't think we should use a term of privilege here, the law knows the rights of obligations, the Rules of Procedure knows the term of rights and obligations, so here we can discuss whether a certain right is abolished or imposes a certain obligation. 29 Mr. Chairman means that you are very good at leading this House and I see that you well know and legal terminology might be as good as chairing to warn us about these legal terms. Privilege is something that one can think of as a privilege, and here probably many colleagues feel that it is not a privilege. So, I think that this is the highest House, Parliament and here I think that we should stick to what is prescribed by the law, the Rules of Procedure, and these are rights and obligations. What we're sending to the public are the privileges, supposedly the privileges, I don't see that we should use that term especially in time and in a society that's heavily charged. And this term of white bread tells me below – well, if you remove white bread, here you have black bread, you have cakes, you have glues, etc. etc. I therefore feel that we should stick to terminology as prescribed by the Law, whether the Rules of Procedure have certain rights, or whether those rights are abolished or remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5357	Thank you, Mr. Krčmar. The speaker, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5358	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So in life you have a situation once a certain phenomenon is escalating, that it's just not worth any more fixing, but things have to reset, things have to grow to the beginning. I think we're in this situation today, when it comes to this institute. It is true that there are no amendments, it is true that I have not made amendments either, but it is also true that this institute is so abused so far in practice and applied with so many anomalies, that it has simply caused not only legitimate protests, but the heavy revolution of the Bosnian Herzegovic public and I am not a man who deals with populism. But in this situation, we have no other way out than to reset this thing and bring it back to zero. And in some future debate, let's see what it is to do in terms of total austerity measures, when it comes to this institute. We were brought to this by those who had been ministers for three months, and then a year later received wages. Those who did not have working days, and after a term of office received full salary. You can't justify it, people. And we, as Parliament, should react by adopting this law today. We need to adopt it, and then we'll have the right, have the legitimacy to put the thing where we need to put it. There are certain risks to the retroactive application of the Law here, I know it, it's a very clear thing, but let's let go of this practice to the Administrative Commission. The only way we can justify ourselves before the Bosnian Herzegovina public is by voting for this law today and I am not someone who invites Parliament, but here is the third time I am doing it and I hope that I will never do it again. I call, therefore, on the House of Representatives to adopt this Law in the second reading, so that we begin to discuss in the right way all austerity measures. Leave this, and talk about austerity measures will be understood as avoiding responsibility and avoiding the arrangement of this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5359	Thank the chairman, Mr. Šefik. A representative, Mirsad Đonlagić, called for the word. Here you go, buddy. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5360	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I just felt the need to... another detail...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5361	mirsade, you've exhausted this...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5362	Well, then, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5364	I forgot to say in my discussion that Tuzlani Canton abolished this species, here's to calling it, privileges or the Law of Payments and Refunds after the end of the term, as counterpart Krčmar said, not to be that we now called it white bread here. But white bread is so domesticated, we practically use that termology. But here, the Tuzla Canton uses it and didn't cause any problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5365	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5366	So, I want to make it very clear that there is absolutely no dilemma that one such law should be supported and one such measure should only be one step towards showing greater social sensitivity and elected representatives of the government in this country. Who put us in a position to have so many economically impoverished citizens so many privileges at different levels of government, the answer is not only to ministers who have been in power for three months or not. We can give a very clear and precise answer, from 1996 to 2010, precisely when, who and what authority voted and introduced certain privileges. I am pleased, regardless of his past term as he was, but in the last term, we have abolished the regress of MPs, reduced internal diaries, external diaries, reduced some salaries to MPs, pauses, etc. When asked – Is that enough? It's not. When asked – Have we ever done this before? We didn't. I think that in this direction we should be very specific and seriously working in the next period, with an important note that we should not be vain about such things, so now watch whether or not our club suggested it. What matters is what they suggest, and in this case, there's no reason why we can't all show support for this one bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5367	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut answered his word. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5368	I thank the chairman. You see, just like that, I agree, no matter who suggested, it's important that this is adopted, it's important that this is the victory of the citizens, as we have said on many occasions, but it's also our program from the very beginning and in relation to any, if there's any intention of getting this back in any way, we'll be absolutely against it. So it's not just three months you're getting paid, then a year of white bread. In our program since the founding of the Alliance, clearly stands, no white bread. You can have 35 years of work, leave seven terms here, you can't take white bread for work. So that's actually the point. And only if I can look back, Mr. Đonlagić is denied the word. According to Article 125, paragraph 3 of the second reading, the Proposer of the Law, among other things, receives a word whenever he asks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5369	That's true, but as many times as it's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Sure, sure, sure. Does anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eight-day point, that's Ad. 8. Report on the conduct of the 2014 General Elections, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-159/15, of 29.01.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5372	Thank you. 32 Reading and analysing the report of the Central Election Commission, although in the previous discussion of colleagues and colleagues, they said that it was large, extensive, satisfying, I, as a member of the Commission on Gender Equality, must say that I am absolutely unsatisfactory because of the fact that out of the 50 and slightly more pages contained in the Report, one sentence contained how many women were represented on the candidate lists, who took part and how many men. From the above, 42.28% were women on the lists, while men were 57.72%. From the recommendations made by the Central Election Commission, by handling whether the representation of the constituent peoples is respected or not, I believe that the future report of the Central Election Commission should also be analysed, discussed statistics, and made recommendations on whether, amendments and additions to the Law are made by giving recommendations to political parties, or by entering into the law, because this way is not provided for by the passage of the bearer or those women on the lists. And also to point out through a report where it was wrong. It was wrong because we have three problems with this Law, which is that for women under Election Law 40% of the quota, where women are mostly, or always reserved other places on lists. Compared to men, a small number of women were headed by candidate lists, and men dominated the compensation lists. I believe that Parliament's House of Representatives should be familiar with the statistics that were in the previous elections, and also to get into practice, to use analysis and statistics in the next elections. I will therefore use it as a member of the Commission for Gender Equality, to introduce the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly to statistics. The share of women on the party lists for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was between 40% and 43%. The holders of certified candidates' lists for Parliament's House of Representatives were only 10.57%. The ratio of women and men to the head of the list, of a total of 123 lists was only 13:110. The proportion of women on the compensation lists for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was slightly higher than the share of holders on the candidate lists and was 43.46%. The holder of the compensation lists of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was only 27.27%. The proportion of women on the party lists for the Federation of BiH parliament was 43.60%. The proportion of women holding the list 16.04%, the relationship between women and men headed the list, out of 187 certified lists was 30:157. The proportion of women on the compensation lists for the Federation of BiH Parliament is 42.44% and the bearer of the compensation lists was only 4.35%. The proportion of women on the lists for the National Assembly of the RS was 41.45%. Women, carryers of the list 9.14%. The ratio of women and men to the head of the list is 15:149, of a total of 164 lists. The proportion of women on the compensation lists for the National Assembly of RS was slightly higher than on the candidate lists and was 44.74%. At the head of 23 compensation lists, there were no women. No better situation, if not worse, was on the list for the cantonal assemblies in the Federation of BiH, so we can say that 19.90% of women were elected overall at all levels of government. While we had a record score in 2002, it was 20% compared to women. So with 40% of the law prescribed, we absolutely cannot be satisfied, because these are left at will to political leaders whether women will have the opportunity to get involved in political life or not. To give them at least a chance, if not on the candidate list, then on the compensation lists. I must point out that I didn't find this information on the gender equality agency's website, or here in the Central Election Commission report. It is devastating that we find these data on pages, portals, reports from the NGO sector. So I ask the question -- why doesn't the share of women be analysed through those institutions financed by the Budget of BiH, if we know that almost 52% of BiH's population are women. I must also point out now as a member of the Democratic Front, that three MPs are here at the House of Representatives and that those political parties that have a little more active, for many years, more active political engagement, will, of course, provide opportunities for women in their next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5373	Thank you. 33 The word has Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5374	But it's before the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5375	And you'll be discussing it, won't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5377	Okay. The word is Mr. Borislav Bojić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5378	Your Honor... the possibility of speaking, of course. I especially want to imagine women in this House and I am very grateful to you for the analysis you've done, but I want to notice a few things. First, judging by what you're saying, you're directing, therefore, the position of a woman to close the lists and allow women to be given a quota that will be fully represented. I don't think that's a good approach. So let me start by saying what I think about it. Secondly, when it comes to women, I wish there were more women in our club of MPs, but I see that there are really plenty of women in this row and that's not enough of course. Everything you have said is right, but the question is raised, I am sure that women can fight for a position in Parliament, that they have strength and opportunities. Here's a colleague next to me who wasn't the bearer of the list, who was second on the list and got the largest number of votes in her constituency. What's he talking about? So he's talking about the quality of the candidate, about it, because he's willing to give up, to engage and be elected. It's called equal rights. There were fewer rights here, so there were fewer options to go through on the list. A little when it happens that someone who's second, third or fourth on the list, it's about a woman, getting more votes than a list holder. It rarely happens. And it happens if you have quality. So women have to fight for their position. And I think women have strength, and I'm telling you that women are far more responsible at all jobs, at least from the experience I have. I claim to you that women in many jobs, especially in public affairs, and especially in the executive government, are far more responsible at work than some men. I'm not saying that men are irresponsible as a whole, but they're far more responsible. And I claim that women have the ability to fight for their position. So, fellow Members, I wouldn't close the lists anyway and I wouldn't just choose how many women must be in Parliament, but I would invite women to engage in politics, to sacrifice more when it comes to difolt, and of course they're sacrificed as mothers, like so on. And so on, but here is an additional sacrifice, when it comes to politics, especially when it comes to women. And in that sense, I want to confess to women who are here today in politics, and I know for a fact that they've suffered more victims than I am, therefore, from the women's population. It is therefore my opinion that it is not necessary to close the lists, that it is necessary to work on quality when it comes first of all to the desire for women to deal with politics, in the sense that they are persons who can provide passage on the lists, no matter where they are. I am fully convinced that voters will recognize what women they can, at the end of the day, recognize or not recognize, these are open lists. You can put all the women on the list and put only one small number of men and make it the other way around, let's say that women don't pass, 34 pass only men. Or to close the lists, they're the only two options, there's no third option. I'm not up for closing a list. So I think women can fight for their position. This was not a replica, but simply a part of the debate and let me draw your attention to the fact that there is a woman here, like Aleksandra sitting here next to me, who has shown that she is one of the few who has been in another position and won the largest number of votes and is here in Parliament. I am truly looking forward to the future of our party being like this, and I am fully convinced, given that it is already recognised in the party, that it can come in position and the way my colleague sitting next to me did it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5379	Thank you very much. Let me remind you. The line is two minutes, so you know. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5380	Thank you. I absolutely did not say whether they needed closed or open lists, but here is one of the recommendations would also be that when it was formed or when it was proposed who would participate in the interresor group, to take into account at least one member or member of the Commission on Gender Equality, because I do not believe that this report is devoid of absolute consideration or took into account the proportion of women on the candidate or compensation lists, i.e. as a participation at all. Of course, it is a positive example of a colleague, Pandurević, who has a second term, but is asked what is the matter with women who decide to run somewhere in this or that next election. How much space is given to them, why exactly are they in second place, why very few women bear a list, media space, the budget is used but used more and more gives space to men, because we are still a society that is patriarchal and who thinks that these are roles that men need to play and not women at all. And, of course, I won't comment on women's abilities because we only know how to fight if we get the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5381	Thank you. The word is from Mrs. Borjana Krišto, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5382	Thank you very much. Here, I will briefly look back on the agenda point, which is – Report on the 2014 elections, of course, and briefly on the discussions were within this point. I would first of all say that this report that we have today from the Central Election Commission is methodologically quite well done. It is extensive and extensive and contains everything that should contain one report from all the election implementation activities, to the list verification and the publication and verification of the results of the selection, the General Elections in 2014. Of course, by analyzing and looking, and we've all analyzed it directly and in the field, not just from this report, so everyone has some experience, so I'm going to take a quick look at what my colleague Maja said. I also didn't understand her that she immediately preferred 35 closed lists, but the truth, in some ways from the debate, suggests this, because the position of women, the definition of women's position can be made possible under the current Electoral Law, means only a closed list. I would like to say that we rely too much on proposals to the Central Election Commission, that it should do something and give us some suggestions. True, it can and can act in this sense and has so far acted through inter-resor working groups and has submitted proposals in terms of an institution working on the implementation of this Law, some kind of flaw, etc. and in the sense that the law is proposed. However, the Central Election Commission is not a legislator. We are legislators here, and we finally pass the Election Law, including the one concerning gender equality. Here, I'll look back on that, because I was one of the participants and through the amendments to the law and through the working group and I'll also tell you my opinion. I belong to those women where my quota offends me. You can understand whatever you want, but, and I also come from a political option that takes a lot of account, so we say that in our party, about a less represented sex. If my colleagues don't get me wrong, it might be men tomorrow. We have enough MPs today, you know that well, and inside our club, you see most women, maybe another month or two more. We also have them in the House of Peoples, and we have them and we will have them both in the executive power and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at lower levels. So right now things are, and that's what I mean, not only to political options, but also to women. First of all, I want to say and remind all of us here that the female population is more than 50% and a half birth, so by statistical indicators, and here through education, etc. When we look at politics, we're gone. We have to ask ourselves a question to each other – why are they gone? Well, it's because women don't support women. Where a woman feels that she has the support of women, and she has women in politics and as representatives of politics in institutions and authorities. So I say at this point, I want to say that I also support them to be, but first of all, that a woman with her position, her moves, her ability, her wisdom and her willingness to make decisions, even in the most difficult situations and in the highest bodies as this legislative body, and even in the executive wave, can be, but only because, I say, they are ready, educated, able and responsible, and not because they are somewhere a quota. Here's one of my thoughts. So here's my contribution to thinking about everything, but first of all, when we make laws, to run and run certain criteria. I think it's the interest of all of us and that it can bring us into one position and justify our situation in some way and our position, whether we're a woman or a man. Here, in that sense, I would like to say once again, to support this report of the Central Election Commission, but in a way I would like to comment briefly, although I think my colleague Lovrinović, I see that he has come to the floor, to comment on this Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which came with this report, where the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Legal Commission is to propose certain things, including supporting this report. And it proposes that an interresor working group be formed to amend electoral legislation. However, the Constitutional Commission also finds some things here that it is necessary to approach amendments to electoral legislation regarding the fulfillment of clubs in the House of Peoples, and also calls on the BiH Federation parliament to adopt appropriate amendments to the BiH Constitution. I think that the Constitutional Commission has crossed the scope of its powers and that, if anything is proposed to this House, that this should be proposed within the framework of the conclusion, not as an integral part of an opinion, so I am now personally having a dilemma at this point, as to whether I accept this Opinion or whether the proposals in this Opinion are considered as conclusions. But at this point I don't see it, so I'm opening a dilemma, so 36 of us will be after that, after this clarification we know simply and have an attitude to define ourselves against these here suggestions that are in this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5383	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5384	Thank you. Now I find it convenient to continue with the story that Mrs. Deputy opened. So, I'm going to take another sacred business today, and you're saying that you're all reading it well and you know it. And last time at the debate on the VSTV Report, we voted to take note of the VSTV Report, and for an hour and a half we debated on this report, and then we finally voted that we had received it. It's probably some kind of business sanctuary we can't touch, that's how it is with this. So obviously we're not adopting the report, but we're going to vote that we're taking it in, and we're going to talk about it for probably two hours, so if we didn't, Bog wouldn't, it would be thought that we didn't take it to the knowledge, right? I don't know, maybe I'm learning, as Mr. Saša said earlier, we're just moving, so we're learning. The second thing, I'll just keep going, of course we'll support the report or the receipt of knowledge, but really this Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, I have to say that we're both members of the Constitutional Legal Committee and it was scheduled for 23rd, so it was moved to 24, we couldn't be on that Constitutional Commission, me and Madam Deputy, so we have some kind of objections to this Opinion. And if it will be an integral part of the report's vote, i.e. receiving knowledge, then we suggest that this first point just remain in this opinion, and that these points 2 and 3 and 4 are converted into a conclusion, which will then put these things adopted by the Constitutional Commission at its session, to the Joint College of both homes and therefore, on the basis of this proposal of the Constitutional Commission of this House, a proposal which will then come especially to each of the homes and be either in this or in a similar form, therefore the conclusion of both homes, when it comes to this matter, i.e. a report on the work of the Election Commission, i.e. the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5385	Just deliver it to us so we can vote on it. We'll put it all to the vote, and the procedure knows what it's like, right? Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5386	I thank you, Chairman. I am beginning to say that we from the SDS Club also support the Central Election Commission's recommendations with, of course, the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, because it is a matter of constitutionality of the proposed provisions concerning the choice of Serbian delegates, Srbin in the Federation Paralment Club, because it is not acceptable to bring here some unconstitutional solutions. 37 As far as the election report itself is concerned, I am sorry that there are no colleagues from the SNSD here, Mr. Prodanović had one very good and good discussion on the Constitutional Commission, and since he and I come from the same constituency, I have recognized both the specific names and the specific problems Mr. Prodanović was talking about. Our election process is what our law is. The Central Election Commission is working in accordance with the Law. The fact that the results of the election, so often the media are attacking and blaming the CEC, which we know the results of the elections only after a month – is the law. And that's why we need to change this law. Just now, Mr. Backović here was talking about some purchase of MPs. I can see that Željka Cvijanović does not have the copyright of "Two Bastards". And that's the result of our election law. Maybe we should increase the censorship. Look, it's government, cantonal, etc. However, at municipal and lower levels, you have chaos there. In my municipality, we have 13 political factors in the municipality. Collect all relatives in the village, get 200 votes and then four years of blackmail and sale. That's the facts. Let's see, let's maybe think about this inter-resor group, can we increase the electoral censorship to 5%? Because people invest, I mean people really, I know by the villages, and here's Mr Ahmetović from that neighborhood, so they know in Bratunc and Srebrenica people sell cattle, sell four cows and invest in an election campaign, because he has a good 1,000-mark board breaker plus to hire all the unemployed families. And these are the problems that we have for four years, which is why we have dysfunctional local authorities, and these are all the problems of the electoral processes and our legislation that is the way it is. Furthermore, I must say that I was, Mr. Džaferović seems to me, at the Constitutional Law, not to dispute the election, that the elections were conducted in accordance with the Law. I was one of those who thought the election results should be challenged. And here's why they need to be challenged. If in one Predor, at one polling post three days after the election, we find a few hundred ballot-filled ballots that someone has failed to insert, and no ballot is missing at any polling post, the question arises where did these ballots come from. By the way, someone was driving the RS ballot. In Banja Luka, we have photos of people in the car repacking bags and inserting ballots in polling stations. I'm afraid we have a parallel process of printing ballots. And especially when the result is so close, then you question the legitimacy of the one chosen. The third thing Mr. Prodanović spoke of on the Constitutional Commission is problems with the work of the election committees. It's a shame we're in the '90s. There's some six, seven. 8. had much faster and results and much more quality and there were no of this kind of machinations as we have today. Let's say he told us about the shortcomings in Zvornik. So why keep quiet? I come from that constituency and we all know by name and last name to speculate that and that candidate has brought so many and so many hundreds of thousands of marks to Zvornik and bought election committees. Picked them up to write him those preferences. I don't have that problem, I'm not damaged. So they couldn't steal me because the voter's will was stronger. But that's what it was. And what happens? It's Zvornik, it's a patent and recipe of the zvornik that happened three or four election cycles ago. The formed NGO under the glass to prevent it, to cut it, you know what happens, and Mr. Prodanović is even a crab, he says – so the man from my party did it. The man had a good idea, so the SNSD party activists, who had only one task, had to allow that kind of theft, put it under the glass. And then in the meantime, my colleague Bojić won't be mad because he's not part of that engineering, he's also thought of the ruling party there in Prijedor, so that the same recipe from Zvornik can be applied, so it's transferred to Banja Luka and what do we have? We have stolen election will of the voters. And we need to see how to do that. I'm personally, although I think we might have a problem here, since unfortunately our average voter isn't, maybe he's got about eight classes of school, so he's not worth that kind of election, and that 38 is electronic, to introduce an electronic voting system. Even though I have dilemmas again in this state, it may be only that in those who would show people how to vote, it would allow some machinations. But I think it's our interest, that we should have the right results of the election, that none of us need a voice more or less than what's called the voter's will. We have a chance to change these things now and we will make our contribution through the work of this interresor group. I hope it won't be like four years ago, when the interresor working group worked for months without doing anything, because all the other thefts came from that election theft. The electoral theft starts with the purchase of MPs, the election theft starts and the set up tenders, the electoral theft is the essence of all other thefts in this society. And until we deal with him, we haven't solved the problem. I have to, since my colleagues were talking about women, I agree with Mrs. Krišto, well, maybe we're two atypical women in politics, but I have to say that I'm not for equality between women and men, however it sounds. Not that declarative equality, let's keep us on the lists. If we've taken this job, the esteemed colleague is new, we have a media opportunity. I'm on my own, she didn't give me a party, I fought for my own position. The law reads, the media calls, we have to impose. We also can't, you know, women in politics very often want us to be equal, but when we have to go somewhere in the field, when we have to sit alone in the car and go a couple hundred miles, come home at two o'clock at night, so God's colleagues will be men. Not if we want to be equal with them and we have to get in the car for six months. In four months, I've been campaigning on my own and driving for 40,000 miles. I wasn't driven by any of my colleagues, nor did I tell them you'd go. But it finally gives the result. So if we want to be even, then we have to carry the same weight as men, and then we will truly be equal, not just give us privileges, but let the men bear the burden. No, we fight evenly and bear evenly the burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5387	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mrs. Gasal's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5388	I have to replicate because of course there are these types of women and men, it's an undeniable fact, it's just a question, I don't know why you're laughing? It's not the point here whether women who are already in politics are doing what they want to do or not want to do, whether we enjoy privileges, is just the question, if we have a quota, and I'm not into quotas, why we're not talking, why the recommendation wasn't, we don't need legal, but one of the recommendations for the interresor group to talk about maybe parity. Why, we're talking about women who are already in politics. What about those women who are in political parties, they don't get a chance or they're always somewhere else, never the bearer or very rarely the candidate or the compensation list bearer, that's the essential question. The other thing, of course, is that there are some women here who are going to do such men's jobs, men, I don't see the absolute reason why the Central Election Commission wouldn't include in its reports such an analysis where you can see where 40% is legally prescribed, it's respected. Where they are to be appointed to the Council of Ministers, this body or that body, that's where women are avoided. For example, it's a woman's do-gooder canton where you have 11 ministers. Afghanistan has three ministers, a women's do-gooder canton has not been the rise of a single minister. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5389	Okay. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I first volunteered to congratulate the Electoral Commission on the successful elections. I think they did the job according to the law and that we got what we got, so it's the result of the election. But of course, I didn't just call to commend the Electoral Commission, but I answered for two more reasons. Before I take them out, I must say I disagree with my colleague Bojić when it comes to the quality of women. In my list, all the good women, or all the women on the lists, were good quality. I guess it has something to do with my age and Boyic's, so I think it's more about, I think, education of voters and that there's a problem here, that there's a problem, that these women's associations, now seriously, mean these women's associations have to actually work more on voter education. And I think there's a way to find a solution here. It is not a solution to closing a list, such as not even a solution to imposing force into a policy of something that is realistic, so there is no, there are no pre-conditions. As for the amendments to the electoral legislation, I think the key is actually the whole of this report and the latest reports, but I especially say this report, in these recommendations that are here. Well, I'd say in the other one that's not sufficiently elaborated, which should contain or contain, I thought it should contain, all the shortcomings of the Electoral Law. So, the interresor working group, hopefully, will have from the Election Commission the perceived shortcomings of the Electoral Law in application, so that it can act on these members. Among other things, we know exactly where these critical moments are in the election process. We know exactly that the problem is counting ballots in the polling stations, because here are the interrelationships and voting committees that are who they are for us. Why not reconsider the reintroduction of municipal vote-counting centres, where trained people who could do a quality job, thus preventing manipulations, precisely in that part, means from the polling post to the counting centre, and where many assume that there are the most manipulations. And if I don't say what to do now, I expect that the Election Commission, the Central Election Commission, will actively participate in the work of the Interressor Working Group, in fact, be crucial to these issues when it comes to amending the legal provisions that have been shown in practice either inapplicable or difficult to apply or subject to abuse. I think that when it comes to the Constitutional Commission's conclusions, I can also support the proposal that the last or the last of these four, or the third and fourth proposals, are defined as specific conclusions. I don't think that we should have any problem here and that Mr Lovrinović's proposal would not, in essence, change the intention of the Constitutional Commission, when she was making these conclusions, and that, in the context of this Opinion, the first and the second ones would be acceptable, mean the one talking about the formation of an inter-resor working group and the one talking about receiving information on the report on work, because in the end, this is also in the recommendations, especially this second one, in the recommendations of the Central Election Commission, and I think that the discussion in this House was also going in this direction. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5391	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5392	I thank the chairman. This is not a replica, but a respected colleague, Novaković, mentioned the Electoral Law, and I forgot to say in my discussion – one of the reasons why we support perhaps the adoption of a whole new text of the Electoral Law. In fact, we have never implemented and respected this Law, BiH Election Law has never been implemented or respected. Here I will tell you, Article 1, the first member of this Law says – This Law regulates the selection of members and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly, members of the Presidency, and lays down the principles applicable to elections at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Federation of BiH has never passed the election law, so today we have a paradoxical situation. And this says here in the Electoral Law exactly – Parliament of the Federation is reviewing election units every four years. So how will he question them and change this Electoral Law? He can't. So I call and appeal to the new majority of the Federation to finally solve this problem. And even this Parliament has never fulfilled its legal obligation, and its legal obligation is to review electoral units every four years, and therefore to change the number of MPs or delegates with the size of election units, etc. I think the organisation of the electoral units, let's say, specifically for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the RS, is not good. The National Assembly has reconsidered, because they have their election law of the RS, the election unit for the National Assembly has changed, and I also don't think they've brought a happy solution and they've now seen it themselves, but they've fulfilled the legal obligation, even in a way that wasn't good. And that is another reason and we are asking the promoters, and once again we appeal to colleagues who have representatives and who are participating in the Federation Parliament, let this issue be resolved in the Federation Parliament, so that we do not have such gaps and gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5393	Thank you. Mr. Đorđo Krčmar has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5394	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot being said in these discussions of colleagues. Look, nothing is eternal and unchangeable and practice is the best indicator of whether something needs to be changed, what is good, what is not and obviously smart people will always go towards what they see in practice that needs to be changed, that they will change anyway. So here's just, said Mrs. Pandurević, we wait 30 days in a small country like BiH with 4.5 million inhabitants, 30 days waiting for election results, creating doubt between us and among citizens, etc. Unfortunately. In a country of 350 million in America, you have... you have exactly finished elections, candidates who, Democrats, Republicans etc. To be more, to move on, to take one China that has a billion and how many 200-300 thousand inhabitants, you have within 2-3 days all the election results. And I guess we're serious people that we're looking that way, too, and we're changing what we're supposed to change. 41 This is the same as being said here about all these shortcomings when it comes to election thefts, etc. Who needs such MPs who come in such a way to the congregations and parliaments? What do we expect of such people, how to lead politics, and how to run the country? I'd be here to, to support myself when it comes to women. Fact one, we must respect that both the Constitution and the European Charter, etc. It does not make any difference, it looks, say citizens and that citizens are equal to the law, rights, obligations etc. But one fact, here this Parliament shows that, and it pours out one optimism, that it will go in that direction and that there will be more women. And every environment where women are is both more pleasant and polite. If a woman, a woman who is a pillar of the family, and the fact that she is a pillar of the family, runs a household, gives birth and raises children, then she gives me the right to believe that she will lead a responsible policy. The mother is the mother and when you say the mouth itself are, you mention the mother and when you know, when a man says watch out, he grabs the head first, because it's the most sensitive part of the body and the most threatened, and when he catches the torment there he tells her or mother or Bog. So, here's this Parliament showing, our club president is a woman, we're proud of her, extremely well run by the club. Here is a colleague of Parliament, Madam or I apologize, Miss Krišto, who also sees her as giving away great abilities and needs maximum support when it comes to women's populations. I agree with you colleagues, and I'm joining you why yet, you are not equal in the election campaign for many reasons, because you have children, are not available to you either time or obligation, etc. And I think that there, that egoism of ours needs to go down a little bit to a lower level and that it certainly gives you the opportunity to be equal in the campaign, in a way that gives you more and more media space. Known, it's not just enough to be on the list or be on the list and participate, depending on how much you have the media space and everything one candidate needs to have in the campaign. So that I don't take away your time, there's an election law, not that he has faults, he's who he is. Practice has shown that we need to change it. He has shown his in this past time, but my Bog, nothing is reasonable, not even this Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5395	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5396	I thank the chairman. Every time I speak, I try to sublime it, and it lasts as short as possible, and I don't repeat myself, but in the context of all the discussions so far, it's impossible not to avoid any segments. I'm going to start with this equality that Mrs. Gasal, for example, imposed and then I start to wonder what kind of society I live in. By consulting the laws, by all laws we are absolutely equal, the Jender Centers, the Laws, all the laws have given us, even you are in advantage. I speak by the law, ladies are ahead. And then we really come to what you guys are about, and I'm going to let you read the laws of Mrs. Gasal, and you're going to see where it says, where women are ahead of men, so the laws are conceived, I'm not saying that they're in real advantage, I'm talking about formal, something someone wrote. And then we come to the election process, and it's precisely the problem not because of how many women are elected and how dictated by decisions, the law, 40, 42%, is this much, because the woman is over 42% in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that shouldn't define the Electoral Law, it would be you, me, you, lady or missy don't get mad, you Mrs. Krišto should be within your political options to do, and then on the lists there's as many women as we really have in this country. So that the lists are structured so far within the political options. So it wouldn't happen that in one political option, here in mine, I'm chosen, I can't fall apart, I can't be half a woman half a man, but I wouldn't, but it can't happen that in one political option only men are chosen. It can't happen, but as you can see it happened, not just in one, but in a large number precisely because of that work we did there, not because of the will of the voters. I have a concept, of course, and I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the rights of MPs or MPs, make proposals, or what I believe should be done in election processes. The fact is, the law we have is not good with more aspects. You have to go from below, it's from municipalities that are not electoral units, because they are electoral units just for their territorial space, their territorial environment and their inhabitants. From the municipalities, then up, the law is not good, period. Political meddling because of the law we have and the constitutional provisions we have are horrifying. The political trade that exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina is an example of how it should not work. That way, I'm not telling myself, I'm not telling me individually, this is when I tell myself I'm talking inside this country, we're doing evil. And We do evil to all innocent citizens, even ourselves. At the heart of your political establishment or taking up a full political position, and in the finality and position in which you decide everything, you decide on life, death, work, unemployment and so on. And then come the people who are very questionable moral principles and moral norms, because the law has given such opportunities. So we, like those who are called MPs or MPs, have to make election legislation change as soon as possible. Because it's the only way to stop what Mrs. or Miss Pandurević was talking about. But the Electoral Commission must have a little more hearing, too, because when you file a complaint, we've seen what decisions are like, amazing decisions. This is a criticism against you. You know, I can now mention the election seats so by chance the observer and then it's found that on the unimportant ballots, unimportant ballots are interesting at all, one political option and another. Do you understand me? So let's say, I'm going to invent a political party, the KS is all rounded up, on all these insignificant, and then DS has 10, LS 5, HS 3. So they're all invalid ballots, but there's this KS on all those ballots. Can you explain how that's possible? How is that possible? It's clear how it's possible. That political option should have been eliminated. So that's what complaints are given to you, you're not responding, unfounded. It can't be unfounded, you know, because it's too obvious, when it comes to the election process, too. A special story is commissions and rings like this, you see them, which can be written and not stripped. I'm showing it to you to see it. I wasn't in the election process. Who can write and special stories are female fingernails, women and we've heard too much in this period. It is also necessary to approach the full amendment, i.e. the adoption from the basis of the new Electoral Law. It's the only way and the only way to make a radical progress in the overall process of stabilising this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5397	Thank you. Mr. Safer Demirović answered the word. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5398	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. Some, just over a month ago, it seems to me that there were elections in Greece, Sunday was, on Monday, the president of the winning party was the prime minister for forming the government. Greece is far from us as the homeland of democracy and we are far from being at that level at some point. However, our arrangement of our country as it is complicated and as it pulls away the electoral law, according to my own court, when it allows for this kind of election implementation, the implementation of these results deserves every attention and deserves every commendation given that it is a very, very complicated system. I had some things to say, a lot has already been said about the material we have ahead of us, especially about buying these election committees that we are all aware of, buying elected MPs, then about this censorship of the electoral threshold. But what we haven't touched, and here maybe we should and there's space and it's about changing the national plea, and in order to mean choosing and filling certain quotas, of course I'm like all of you supporters, everyone has the right to plead whatever they want, but the reason why that's done, of course, is that for every conviction, at least on my part. There are two other things I want to say, and about this material itself, it's a way of voting in the Brcko District. We have a serious problem there where, in fact, last year, about 40,000 people couldn't achieve their right to vote because of certain problems with ethnic citizenship, i.e. enrollment in the voter list. At the first one of the polling lists in Brcko District, we had more people who had the right to vote, on the second, as you stated in the material, that number increased those who couldn't vote and definitely that this way of registering the voters in Brcko did not work. The other thing is about voting, so our diaspora of those who have the right means that they participate in the elections, and this year we've had a lot of gaps about mail delivery, voting methods, and I think that this system is what we're using, especially for diaspora in the time of modern technology and technology, has been overcome and it can be generally better solved. If everything wasn't so black in our Electoral Law there's something and good and I agree here with my colleague Bojić, what's best here are these open ballots. So, that part in no way should we change, even moreover, I would, because we have the pressure of the civil sector and where we on the lists to a limited extent are not equal to those on the compensation lists, the same thing can happen, there is space for certain changes. Of course, these compensation lists we know how to edit, who creates them, in which way, but here's neither, and here we have the pressure that we're not all in an even position. In general, I believe that the Electoral Law should survive serious, serious changes and that these changes should include, other than parliamentary experts from that area, the meaning of the wider community, the civil sector, NGOs, all those who are interested in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5399	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5400	My colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I just called to say for a little while that I support all those who have said that an amendment to the whole law is necessary. I will support Mrs Pandurević, and I do not agree with the results of the election, but I have already commented on 10.02. when we had a report on a large percentage of invalid votes. According to my basic profession as a doctor, to establish an adequate diagnosis, there is something called pathophysiology that deals with the study of disease, because if we don't know what the reason is, we don't even know how to treat certain diseases. So with this report, with the rest of what colleagues have stated, not to repeat myself, it would resent the fact that there is not enough information about the number of invalid votes that, as we could see those of us who were here, is very large and 7.9% and is far greater than in all the countries presented to us in the countries of Europe in that statistical analysis. And in that analysis I'd like to see, because I've got an explanation, is our Electoral Law complicated, are our lists complicated? I don't think there's anything less complicated in other countries because there's no one-sided anywhere. I wish there were statistics on the number of invalid votes in that report compared to certain lists. I think that even here, what my colleague was saying, let's say the lists for the election of members of the Bureau were not at all complicated, they were carrying only four names, so no unenlightenment certainly wasn't the result of the mistakes, when only four names were involved. So I'm really interested, and I think that one of these reports should be accessible statistically and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5401	Thank you very much. And finally, then, I'll just say a few sentences, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5402	I thank the chairman. When it comes to the report, I think it's important that we focus on the fact that we have three key parts here. So, we have a report that is correct, extensive, informative, very useful, but I can only agree with my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, that there are not enough issues of women's participation and problems that are definitely emerging, so when the choice of women in the legislative bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake. However, no matter what, I would like to thank the Central Election Commission for this correct report, and I think this is just one preliminary report, as I realized yesterday by the rapporteur, i.e. the day before yesterday at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We will get more extensive reports and I hope that these suggestions of colleagues of Gasal-Vražalica-Devil will be included because I fully support them. That's the first part. The second part, i.e. the second key issue of this Report, is the general recommendation. And these general overruns say it is necessary to form an interresor working group, I fully agree with that, for the purposes of extensive amendments to the Electoral Law. And really there's really no need to go in now, or try to get into anything that should be changed in the Election Law, because the list is really long and exactly the point of forming an interresor working group is that we have a complete list, so it wouldn't even be possible to get into all these issues now. However, what I want to point out, which I think is really important because I haven't heard, I think that all CEC members in one way or another in the media have pointed out that the thinest link is that polling spot, so election committees. And one of the best, probably way to get rid of it, is by introducing an electronic voting system. I don't mean by that vote on the Internet, but instead of a box, instead of a 3-4 set of papers, instead of election committees, you simply introduce 45 electronic voting machines. BiH currently has among the most modern documents, when it comes to ID cards, passports and so there is really no reason not to introduce an electronic voting system, it has been introduced in many EU countries and it would be relatively easy to implement, of course legal solutions are needed. The vote would register immediately at that polling post and at the CEC headquarters and wherever else that is determined. The results would be practically instantaneous, and manipulation would be almost impossible. In the long run, I also think this would be an extremely cost-effective solution, perhaps not in one election cycle, but definitely after that, this would be a cost-effective solution. And now we come to the third concrete part of this report, that is, the third part, of the important part of this report, and these are the specific recommendations. And concrete recommendations concern only one single question. And as I pointed out earlier in the debate on the second point, it is a matter of exceptional importance and I also thank the CEC for treating it in such a concrete way. The CEC proposed urgency here, so it proposed an emergency procedure for an emergency procedure to be filled in by the Serbian People's Club with a missing 4 delegates exclusively for the October 12th 2014 elections. The CEC went one step further, he proposed several concrete explicit solutions as can be done and we accepted one, or first of these solutions, to make it legal and to propose it. And the CEC then finally said that this Parliament could choose a third solution, but in that case, if it chooses a third solution beyond those proposed by the CIK, it would make sure that such a similar solution is not the opposite of the Federation of BiH's constitution. So from this, from this CEC finding in this recommendation it is quite clear, that I am not saying clearly that the CEC did not consider that the concrete solutions that it had proposed before, before that third someone... the solution did not consider it unconstitutional, so the solution that the Club of the Serbian People fills with unselected candidates from the list of cantonal congregations is the solution that we have proposed in our bill proposal. As soon as the CEC said, someone else can just make sure that it wasn't unconstitutional, apparently he felt that this was the first concrete thing he proposed was not unconstitutional. And all of this is the introduction to the Opinion adopted by the Constitutional Commission two days ago at its session. And here for the needs of the other MPs in this House, who are not members of the Constitutional Legal Commission, let me point out that the Constitutional Commission actually adopted two opinions two days ago, the first two completely contradictory opinions, I am not going to enter into the reasons perhaps no one knew how to vote, irrelevantly, mostly adopted 2 completely contradictory opinions. And then we joined the adoption of a compromise solution as a commission. So, in one of these opinions supported by this coalition majority of DF, SDA and SDS, it was wanted to realise that it is necessary to amend the Federation of BiH Constitution to fill the Serbian People's Club in the House of the Federation Parliament, regardless of what CEC recommendations say. And that initial opinion even asked the Federation Parliament to adopt amendments to the Federation Constitution. Now, given these discussions we have heard, I can think that the HDZ would only have responded if this compromise proposal had not been adopted, which the compromise proposal says, if, of course, Parliament of the Federation – if it considers it necessary. So at least we left the Federation Parliament to decide, not the Constitutional Commission, whether amendments to the Federation Constitution are necessary or not. And during this debate on the Constitutional Commission I heard, someone's comment was really unable to remember now whether it was an agreement or a proposal, or a suggestion, or a simple comment, that the SDA and the DF could take on themselves to initiate changes to the Federation of BiH's constitution. Now, watching today's discussion will be very interesting to see how it ends. I have a feeling it will be four years, that the Serbian People's Club will continue to count 13 members, 13 delegates or even less, the CEC has also warned of the possibility of siphoning delegates. And finally, we've heard a lot of discussions here about the violation of the Federation Constitution, especially in this previous agenda. But none of those who spoke to the Constitutional 46 Commission two days ago today in a manner that is contrary to the CEC's clear recommendations did not mention the most obvious example of a violation of the Federation of BiH Constitution, in particular Article IV. A.2.6. who says, again, it is really necessary to repeat this – the composition of the Federation of BiH's House will be parity so that every constituent people has the same number of delegates and then says it will be 17. We don't have that now. And no one mentions that member of the Federation Constitution and how it is broken and how to overcome that question, and that was the primary issue for the CEC, given that he only had one concrete recommendation that he said was urgent and I congratulate them on that and I hope that this House, first of all, will adopt our proposal that our law be considered by an emergency procedure, as CIK recommended. So now I repeat again, we've just rewritten the CEC's recommendation. I hope that the House will support the emergency procedure and that this law will be passed so that we finally have 17 delegates in the House of Peoples, at the Serbian Club in the House of Peoples of the Federation, but also that we have a solution to fill further if it falls apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5403	Thank you to Mr. Arnaut. The speaker, Šefik Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5404	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I only went out to thank the Central Election Commission for this report and to congratulate the Central Election Commission on everything it has done, when it comes to election processes, and this last election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is true, I said that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state in which it has never seriously questioned the legitimacy of the elections, it speaks of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it speaks of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it speaks of the election regulator, not including, of course, the opinion of the situation when there are narrow electoral results, but there are mechanisms to resolve these objections, especially when it comes to the election of a member of the Republika Srpska presidency, so the election of the president of that entity, so there are narrow elections, but there are mechanisms that resolve these things in a democratic way. We haven't had until now in Bosnia and Heregovina, and I hope that in the future we won't have, a rebellion to the public that shows or points to illegality or electoral machinations, which doesn't mean that they don't exist and that they don't go through with regular procedures. And that's me thinking something we should drag here in this place. The Commission's recommendations are fine, the Constitutional Commission has adopted practically all these recommendations and the Election Commission has said in its report that everything that needs to be done under this urgent law must be in accordance with the Federation Constitution, no one therefore mentions this thing that is listed at the end of the report. I will not lead the controversy here with anyone on this subject, we have absorbed that point. So, I think we should give credit to the Central Election Commission for all that it does and encourage them to move forward in this direction. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5405	Thank you, Chairman Džaferović. Here because at this point I no longer see on the list any discussion or replica, I would finally give, here we heard a lot of suggestions and suggestions, to the President of the Central Election Commission, if he wants to, of course, turn around and comment on this kind of discussion. 47 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5406	I thank you for the opportunity to address this high house. The Honorable President, the Vice President, the Honorable Representatives, members of the Central Election Commission, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. Perhaps because of some MPs who are in this House for the first time I would like to say that this is the first time that the Central Election Commission has delivered a report on one election, here in this case were the last General Elections. So, we mostly, that's according to the Election Law and we owe it and we do it every year, we file a report on the implementation of the law in our jurisdiction. That's what we're gonna do this year. This report is much more complex, more complete, and only the report on the implementation of the Election Law will be much broader than this about the first of the General Elections, where you will have much more tables, data, perhaps not as much analysis as you expect, and I can mention that somewhere in the second half of the third month we will have an annual one conference at which we will call our electoral bodies, our electoral administration, that middle part, so municipal and city election committees and the election commission of the RS where we will analyse among other things and the occurrence of invalid ballots. Recommendations from this conference, and the annual conference on the analysis of the implementation of the elections, will also be presented in our annual report on the implementation of the law under our jurisdiction. Our goal was to send this report, which is on the agenda today, to encourage your debate, here you have been for a long time and discussed it, and the Constitutional Commission has given its opinion, its opinion, precisely for the reasons we have noticed, as Mr Arnaut often mentions, that it has not been complied with by constitutional provisions and provisions of the Electoral Law on the number of envoys or delegates in a club of the House of People of the Federation Parliament. So that made us move as fast as possible with such a report so that you could take certain steps. We are not the legislator that is well said, nor can we do anything about it, but we can certainly participate if you ask us to have opinions, etc., to help solve a problem. Secondly, we wanted to encourage this report and this second conclusion on the formation of an interresor working group as soon as possible. You are well aware that one position, therefore in Europe, in the world, in the electoral legislation, should not be changed in the election year. We have time to make up this year, so if there is a new draft of the Electoral Law, you will evaluate it, or probably this inter-resor working group will get guidance on how and in which direction it works. So, for this reason, we wanted this report to come to your attention as soon as possible, because what we do annually, it will only be done at the end of the third month, and it will be directed to you and, as every year, it comes in the fifth or even the end of the fifth month on the agenda. I thought it would be a waste of precious time now, because by then an interresor group could be formed and worked. I wouldn't go into these others and comment, it's not my duty or my duty, it's just thinking about some changes and provisions of the Electoral Law, here's how much I wanted to say. But to take one more off, maybe let's not say a more difficult word but doubt from our work, when it comes to some phenomena that may have a character and a crime, as has been shown packages of ballots from abroad that have been brought to BiH and in front of the cameras, in front of the media, it's a spectacle made, here's how the Election Commission works, etc. We gave the case to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. What Mrs. Pandurević was saying about some of the ballots that were found somewhere, dumped and so on, and that information was delivered to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because we are not authorized to investigate us. We don't have any more information on what it is, what ballots it was, where it came from, etc. 48 So all that we consider and face a phenomenon that has the mark of a crime, we pass it on to a competent service. And here I thank you for all the nice words so far and the trust you have in us and trust Brcko District, don't worry, no one has been denied voter rights, no one has been returned from the polling post, there have been complaints, everything in the court has been considered and our decisions confirmed. Here's if I tell you that out of 36 complaints about the decisions of our BiH Court, in fact, he refused and rejected everything, only one of them changed in part, he brought the candidate down on the list, but there was a fine left. I thank you both for the chairmanship and for all of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5407	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the President of the Central Election Commission, all members of the Central Election Commission, of course. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that we wear out in continuity, not to take breaks, this agenda, so that we can agree on a vote, because we certainly have some obligations later on, and we from the College and everyone else. We're moving to the point of the nine agenda, that's Ad. Nine. Consideration of the initiative of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, who reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (the BiH Official Messenger), number 79/14, launch an initiative to include in the agenda the points: "Information of the Central Bank of BiH on credit users' problems with the CCF indexing clause and measures taken to address these problems" The House College has appointed the Finance and Budget Commission as responsible for considering this initiative. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative on 24 February 2015, the initiative was supported and addressed in the follow-up procedure. So, you're looking for a agenda point. We're going to decide today whether or not we're going to put this as a point, only if we decide then there's a debate. So here I am opening the debate. I don't know if there's any need to say anything at this point or when we get into a situation to talk about the debate. Here you go. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5409	I really won't take the time, I think we're all aware of what this is about, so we don't have, we might have been able to offer some solutions, but I think we still need to get information from the Central Bank, one complete information. At the Commission for Finance and the budget of the SNSD colleagues, they slowed down and claimed that we should also invite banking agencies, I would very much like to do so here, especially when we, and I cannot expect them to expect a solution if the director of the RS Banking Agency says that citizens should monitor and inform themselves about the work of the banks, that is to say, their work. I think we need the information to deliver the Central Bank. All 49 of us inform from the media, we have some knowledge. And here I call upon my colleagues to support this initiative, so that when Mr. Kozarić delivers us information, we may also try to find some solution to protect these people, because the word is about 9,000 inhabitants of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5410	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to item 10, but before we move to item 10, I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 10 and 11 of the agenda is united because it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 21 votes against, 6 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority, I find that the debate is united. Ad. Ten. - 11. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement I'm opening a debate on items 10th and 11th of the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5412	Thank you. So, as I asked for item 10 at the beginning of today's session that from the agenda, I would just not be left unclear what we were saying, so this has nothing to do with the story that it's some sort of... story in a specific subject, I was talking in principle, so we have a conclusion. This point 10 refers to financial responsibilities, and here is the Tuzla municipality in particular, so it has nothing to do with it, it happens to be the Tuzla municipality. And I'm still staying on that we at the club are going to figure out how we're going to vote here at this point 10. We'd like to see the information that we've asked the Council of Ministers to come to the conclusion, so that we can work on all the agreements, including this, and not that there's any doubt left. So, just for the sake of clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5413	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12. 50 Ad. 12. Consideration of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Embassy in the Member States of the European Union and the Mission to the European Union in Brussels to meet within 15 days the Secretariat of the Council of the EU, the European Commission, the European Parliament and 28 members of the European Union with the Decision of the House of Representatives and the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of 23.02.2015, which confirmed and adopted the Declaration on the necessary reforms in the context of the accession process of the European Union, adopted by the BiH Presidency on 29 January 2015" I'm opening a debate. So here's the clear thing. I'm closing the debate. This way we exhausted the agenda. I call upon you to gather together.................................................................. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5419	...that I read the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5420	No business intervention, please. _________(?) ...so what's the vote? It doesn't say what's being voted on here, so let me read the proposal. The statement of the law is postponed and the amendment phase is extended until the next session of the House of Representatives... Thank you very much. So, the man was discussing and he wrote that he was delaying and is that referring to this item of the agenda, Mr. Lovrinović getting up and say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5422	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-26-1.u5423	Okay, thank you very much. Now we've explained things. Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. With five votes to, 23 votes against and two abstentions, I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. Now we're voting on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives, with 27 votes in favour of, 4 against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, passed this Law in a second reading. 53 We are going to item 8 of the agenda – General Election Implementation Report 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nikola Lovrinović, which reads: - The proposals contained in the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission under points 2, 3 and 4 refer to the Joint College as a proposal to draw joint conclusions, as well as the same instructions to one and another House of the Parliamentary Assembly. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 votes for, 19 votes against, no abstentions. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. We are now voting on receiving the report with the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission Opinion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 votes for, no objection, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has received the report with the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission Opinion. We're going to point 9. – Reviewing the initiative of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (the BiH Official Messenger), number 79/14, launch an initiative to include in the agenda the points: "Information of the Central Bank of BiH on the problems of credit users agreed with the CCF indexing clause and the measures taken to address these problems". Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, no objection, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that we have accepted Mrs Pandurević's initiative, which includes the obligation to obtain information from the Central Bank. To know that this will be addressed by us as a college request to the Central Bank. So I'm putting the motion to vote on points 10 and 11 of the package. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] For the sake of practice, keep it this way, don't keep me, I know it doesn't matter. 27 for, 4 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I understand that we have decided to vote in the 10th and 11th points package. Moving to dots 10 and 11. – Giving consent to ratification of the agreement 54 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, no objection, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement on points 10 and 11 of today's agenda. Let's go to point 12. – Consideration of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Embassy in the European Union and the Mission to the European Union in Brussels to meet within 15 days the Secretariat of the Council of the EU, the European Commission, the European Parliament and 28 members of the European Union with the Decision of the House of Representatives and the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of 23.02.2015, which confirmed and adopted the Declaration on the necessary reforms under the accession process of the European Union, adopted by the BiH Presidency on 29 January 2015. He's preparing to vote. Vote now. 26 votes to, 1 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we adopted this initiative. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the 7th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned for 11 March 2015. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 13:40 p.m.
