ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 envoys: 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. As indicated in your call for today’s session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow MEPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 4th session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking questions from the envoy in oral form on 14(?) The meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also addressed the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and listed the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form, these are Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure for Asking Envoyial Questions in Oral form were sent by the following envoys: Ambassador Halid Genjac for Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda; Ambassador Mario Karamatić for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, Mr Mirko Šarović; Ambassador Martin Raguž for Minister of Communications and Transport, Mr Slavko Matanović; Ambassador Dragutin Rodić for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, Mr Mirko Šarović. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the announcement were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u293	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I asked the question, as it is said, of the Minister of Finance to Mr Bevanda – which is all buildings and premises and at what prices of the Council of Ministers in the term of '10-'14. Buy for the accommodation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions? What are the reasons why they refuse to move into the purchased facilities of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education, the Ombudsman Institution, the Institute of Missing Persons, the Market Surveillance Agency, the Anti-Corruption and the fight against corruption? Is building 2 purchased by the Council of Ministers for 9 million, for the purposes of BiH institutions' accommodation, mortgaged at the time of purchase? For this reason, whether BiH's Attorney General has disputed the contract to purchase the building, and so on, the following institutions remain at the sub-optimal facility: the State Service Agency, the Public Procurement Agency and 10 others, etc.? Has an analysis of the availability of facilities already owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina been carried out prior to the purchase of these facilities and which could have been used for those purposes? Reason: The Council of Ministers in the previous meeting made a decision on the system resolution of institutions in order to reduce rental costs for accommodations that were only during the '13s. the year was 9 million KM. The Council of Ministers allocated 20 million KM to the decision to purchase the necessary facilities. Most of these funds have been spent, the facilities have been purchased, according to information available from the public, but institutions that are in sub-optimal facilities, according to the information available to me, have not yet moved to the purchased facilities. So, we've paid the budget facilities, and we're still paying the high price of the leased facilities from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u294	Thank you. I give the word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance and Treasury, so to Mr Bevanda, to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u295	Dear President, members of the College, honourable representatives, fellow ministers, guests, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all and wish you a successful work today. On 28.04., we received an emissary question from the esteemed representative Mr Halid Genjac and had to prepare to respond at a session that was scheduled to be held on 29 April 2014. We immediately received the memo, which we received through the General Secretariat, to the General Secretariat, sent a letter to the following content – Article 3(1). Decisions approving the purchase and purchase of accommodation facilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions to be included in the Multi-annual Capital Investments Programme for the period 2012-'14, published in the Official Messenger of BiH, number 95/13, are set out in the way in which it is implemented and the Joint Affairs Service and the Committee for the Implementation of the Purchase Procedure of Objects appointed by the Council of Ministers are in charge. Article 3(2)(c) states that the Office for Joint Affairs is an institution relevant for the completion of individual contracts for the purchase of institution accommodation facilities, while paragraph 3(c) provides that the Committee is relevant for proposing to the Council of Ministers specific decisions to conclude each individual contract. Also with individual decisions on the purchase of buildings in Mostar, East Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Tuzla, published in "The Official Messenger", number 78/14 and Article 3 has been authorised by the Head of BiH's Joint Affairs Service for the conclusion of the contract on the purchase of buildings and books. Decisions on the schedule of office space for facilities in Tuzla, eastern Sarajevo and Banja Luka have been made by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the BiH institutions' Joint Affairs Service. For the second part of the issue relating to the purchase of the Hidrogradnja building, which is referred to by the BiH Attorney's Office, we would like to inform you that the information provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has not been received, and if the procedure set out above is taken into account, it is clear that only the Joint Affairs Service has the answers to the question. To be specific, since I was interested in the sequence of your letter, the Hidrograding facility has not been purchased, has not been paid, and the pravobraniteljstvo General has brought his position and a perfectly normal purchase procedure has been suspended and no brand has been paid for it. Following this act, we have suggested that the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers prepare all the information to respond to the questions raised by the esteemed envoy Halid Genjac, to ask the Office for Joint Affairs of BiH institutions, and... everything referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 relevant for the problem of institution accommodation. Following this, we have delegated this issue to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers has adopted its position to prepare all the information on all purchased facilities and accommodation problems to be united throughout this act. And especially what I want, here to take advantage of, so by checking we found that the Hidrograding facility wasn't bought, it wasn't paid, it was suspended because the procedure for buying and closing the contract was identical to all the facilities. Here, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u296	Thank you, Mr. Bevanda, thank you very much for your reply. And if he's satisfied with the exhaustive response, he'll tell us the esteemed envoy Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u297	Well, Mr. Bevanda and I agreed, so in the announcement that there would be a written answer. I also refer to Article 155(5). I'm looking for a written reply, but it's already announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u298	Thank you. Now I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u299	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Ministers. My question concerns the work of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH and I refer it to Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Here a few days ago, the president also had a meeting with representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, so I expect, as I consider this an important issue, that this subject was also discussed. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, BiH, article 26, stipulates that the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge of law enforcement and supervision of the work of the Chamber. Article 24(4) states that the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce is obliged to submit a report to the BiH Council of Ministers on the implementation of the budget by 31 March for the previous year in order to get acquainted with it. Amendments and Supplements 4 of the Laws were adopted on 12.09.2013 and as far as I know, the Chamber has not delivered a report to the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the budget for the previous year for the purpose of meeting, in accordance with the legal rules. Furthermore, the public is known that BiH's Foreign Chamber of Commerce is pummeling each other's lawsuits and complaints over various matters, especially in matters assigned to the public,... granting public powers, i.e. the assignment and distribution of the details, which are why the whole process is being questioned. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as an authority of the administration, is responsible for law enforcement and supervision of the work of the Chamber. Given that the BiH Chamber of Commerce is an institution with public powers in accordance with the BiH Governance Act and that its work is regulated by the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, I ask the following question – why has the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations so far not responded due to non-compliance and non-implementation of the obligations prescribed by law? And I ask that I be provided with information on how much the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH has charged in the transactions of the transferred public powers, or how much of them has been paid to BiH's single account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u300	Thank you. Mr. Minister, so Mr. Šarović. Here, let's try to fit in with the Rules of Procedure, the question seems rather complicated to me, but I hope the minister will fit in at the time our Rules of Procedure is scheduled.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u301	Honored chairman, respected delegates, respected ministers. Within these two minutes at their disposal, this may be an opportunity to point only to the basic provisions of the Foreign Chamber Act, which has been defined that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH is a non-profit, non-governmental, independent and non-political organisation and Association of Businessmen from Bosnia and Herzegovina and that, when it comes to supervision, this Ministry, in accordance with the Law on Administration, has the power to exercise supervision only within the framework of delegated public powers to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. And as for the foreign trade ministry and economic relations at the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, three public powers have been transferred. You also spoke about one thing, relating to the issue of consent for detashmans to work in the Federal Republic of Germany, but there are two other public authorities, the issue of forms under the general system of privileges and the issue of forms for non-preferential origin of goods. As part of its mandate, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations carried out in 2014, through a specifically formed commission, the supervision of the work of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce in the framework of the issuance of consent for detashmans to work in the Federal Republic of Germany and the decision of the Minister of 10 April 2014. This type of surveillance is also being prepared for 2015. In early 2015, according to the Management Act, 5 controls were carried out in the Chamber – issues relating to the issue of forms of non-preferential origin of goods and the issue of forms under the general system of benefits. It's these other two delegated powers. For this part, how much the External Chamber of Commerce charged funds during the course of 2014, I understood in 2014, we can deliver the answer by written means, with these data is not available to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, but we can naturally provide it through the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, if the delegate is satisfied with this response.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u302	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Karamatić, do you have any comment, are you satisfied with the answer you just heard from Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u303	Here, I thank Mr. Minister for his reply. I am pleased with the answer, however, in accordance with Article 155(5), as so ordered by the Rules of Procedure, I ask that data be delivered to me in writing for 2013 and 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u304	Thank you. Now I give my word to Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all present representatives and MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all present in this Chamber. I received a written reply just before the start of this session, and I welcome this, I would say, a quick reaction, a response given by both the Minister and the Ministry who identified the response at the 7th session, held in 1405, and I hope that this way of communication by the representatives and ministers, or the Council of Ministers, will in fact become one of the most important forms of informing citizens about the most important things in the country. I'm partially satisfied with the answer. I'll tell you why. So my question was about the construction of the most important infrastructure project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is Corridor 5c, with a special reference to the connection of the northern point, it is building a bridge on the Sava River near Svilaj, and continuing construction on the southern route towards Mostar and Počilj. So, we are witnessing that through the new EU approach, it has actually decided to support this region, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this project is actually the key to launching these economic and other processes of exceptional importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this answer, therefore, this bridge at Savi near Svilaj for 4.5 years we have not even known who will work since the contract with the Republic of Croatia was signed. It doesn't apply to the responsibility of this Council of Ministers, to split up immediately, but what we're looking for here is to assess the deadlines when a new tender can be reached. Unfortunately, then, we have no implications or consequences here why some contracts are broken, why have some tenders been cancelled, or have not been granted, and how will this next tender be conducted, when it can be completed and when should the construction of that bridge begin? That's what I expect, in addition to this answer, that's what we'll get in writing in due course. The second thing, the construction of the Picitel-Medjugorje highway, is clearly stated here that the appropriations amounting to 100m euros, what is the length of the bridge, are agreed at last where the bridge will pass and there is only no time limit here when the construction begins. I expect, therefore, to be precise about when these constructions will take place, as well as building highways on the shares of the Holiday-Mostar north. There is also in response – there is a discrepancy with the highway route of 16 km. What I expect as a representative, what the public expects, is whether this disagreement can affect any dynamics and activity content in the construction of this one of the most important stakeholders and when these differences will be removed and who is in charge of removing them. I think it is very important to say this because there are several years of experience behind us that have slowed down the work on these most important shares and there is no more justification for the city of Mostar and the whole region not being connected to the most important corridors that are here at the borders both in the south and in the north. And I also want to make it clear that in this answer I expect to define potential dynamics, it does not have to be precise, a continuation of construction from Tarchin to the south, because that is information that then rounds the answer as it goes and what is the dynamics of building Corridor 5c from the north to the south. But in any case, I am significant and encouraged by this Ministry's approach and by the announcement of this dynamic, but I expect, therefore, that this information is being completed, and that ultimately there is an answer and what about the funds that have been allocated by the Council of Ministers for design documentation related to the idea of a solution of the Adriatic-Ionian Road and a hub in the southern part of this country. And I hope, therefore, that through this communication we will give the right answers, and we will support you to be an adequate partner and international financial institutions and all those involved, and entities, to complete this most important infrastructure project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u306	Thank you. I appreciate that this was both a question and an answer comment. So I think we've absorbed, so on this point, you're not looking for additional information right now, given that you've received a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u307	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u308	Okay, thank you. If the minister wants to add something else to it anyway, but if it's still out of response, but if it's contained in the answer, I don't think there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, thank you. 7 So let us go, then, to the next question, to the question of the envoy Dragutin Rodić for Minister Šarović. Mr. Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u310	Dear Chairman of the House of Peoples, colleagues and colleagues of the House of Peoples, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you and I welcome all present as well. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Namely, it is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not met the conditions for exporting milk to EU countries at the moment. As Bosnia and Herzegovina has exported 40 million litres of milk to the EU until the entry of the Republic of Croatia, it is enough to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's opportunities in this area, as well as the development of industry and primary agricultural production. The additional problem for domestic producers is that on April 1st 2015, the EU abolished production quotas, which means that dairy farmers in the EU will be able to produce milk in unlimited quantities after 30 years. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia has registered 60,000 milk farmers and today works 9,000, says in itself how difficult this competition is and how much effort Bosnia and Herzegovina should make to find itself on the EU market with 500 million inhabitants. I ask for an answer to the following questions – When is it realistic to expect us to meet the conditions and what conditions for exporting milk to the EU and what is the role of the Parliamentary Assembly in this process? Should the legislative framework be amended, or should only be amended by the Council of Ministers? Do we get an export and European number and become equal on the EU market by meeting these conditions? And third, as long as the talks with the FVO Food and Veterinary Office have arrived and have the basic principles of action been agreed to meet the conditions?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u311	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u312	Key, I would say, rules or key activities to meet the conditions for exporting milk to the EU were led within the country in 2012 and 2013 when, after, I would say, a few years of pause or non-adoptment of European standards that would allow us to export even food to the EU, they have been moved by the adoption of so-called. The hygiene package and some other measures including this respected House and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Based on the period, an FVO mission from Dublin, or the Dublin-based Food and Veterinary Office, was called in mid-2013 to review the situation and progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the dairy sector. In January 2014, they also visited Bosnia and Herzegovina and, based on the review of the situation, produced a report that saw practically six key obstacles, i.e. the things Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to do in order to fully meet the conditions for milk exports. Of those six so-called. Bosnia and Herzegovina's recommendations have been recently agreed or, as instructed by the FVO, amended within the framework of this sector and there have been two other obstacles, i.e. two recommendations made on 10 April this year, through the Action Plan of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, i.e. the Veterinary Office, presented again to the FVO mission, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina has found appropriate solutions through its plan to meet the conditions for exporting milk. And through a letter in April of the FVO mission in Dublin, we kind of unblocked the process, and the response from the Food and Veterinary Office came soon, practically in early May, in which our Action Plan was accepted. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to meet the remaining two conditions, and true for these two conditions, it is also necessary to amend the legislation within the country, i.e. three laws – the Law on Veterinaryism, the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development and the Law on Food at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only when it comes to international trade. That's the point. So it's about amendments to the laws, already existing laws within the country. Amendments and additions were made by the Interresor Working Group of different institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH. These amendments to the law are in line with the FVO mission, and the essence of these amendments is to establish a chain of command, namely a food control system guaranteeing the quality of food exported to the EU. In this regard to both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, I think already tomorrow, will be referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing these three laws, and that is in some way the answer to your second question. Depending on the speed to be adopted, these three legislative proposals also depend on the deadline for meeting the conditions for exporting milk. We will propose that amendments and amendments to the law go according to emergency procedures, since all provisions are agreed through the Interresor Working Group and that we expect that even when we obtain an opinion this will go much faster than in another procedure. Answering your third question – Yes, we are in constant communication with the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin. We have approval from... for the measures we're going to take. If these three laws were to be passed in the next two, three months, conditions would be created to call on an FVO mission from Dublin, probably at the end of autumn or at the end of the year, since their plan for visits to countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina is agreed a year ahead. However, I am convinced that we will find the possibility that they will still come to Bosnia and Herzegovina in an extraordinary fashion and again, so in the final phase they will review the state of the dairy sector and give us, I would say, a green light. We will not get an EU export number, as you say, but our system that is adapted to European standards will be accepted, and EU export numbers will be provided by the BiH Veterinary Office. And that's the essence of the answer. So, domestic institutions trained within the country, in this case, the BiH Veterinary Office, will grant individual approvals to dairy companies, or the dairy industry that want to export to the EU. And that might be the most important thing. So for any dairy, small or large, approval will be given by a domestic institution. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u313	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is the envoy, Mr Rodić, satisfied with the offer of an answer? Would you like to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u314	I want to say that I am satisfied with the answer, however, in accordance with Article 155(5). Rules of Procedure, I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u315	Thank you. 9 We now move to the agenda of the session. For the 4th session, I propose the following, amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of the College of the People's House to consider the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2015 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 3. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-7/15, of 12.05.2015; 6. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-35/14, since 15/09/2014; 7. Proposal for a Law on Bond Relations in the Civil Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-01-33/14, since 24.07.2014; 8. Work report and Financial Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Postage Transport Agency for 2014, issue: 01,02-16-1-366/15, of 10.03.2015; 9. The discharge of Semiha Borovac as a member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the Treatment and Respect of Human Rights of Persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by the second court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 02/a-34-1-501/15 of 03.04.2015; 10. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-359/15, of 09.04.2015; 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation – Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-540/15, since 09.04.2015; 12. The loan agreement (Balkan Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-377/15, since 13.03.2015. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word? Are there any changes or additions to this planned agenda? Mr. Karamatić, if you don't mind. Here you go, Mario. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u316	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we all agree that Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path has no alternative and that we must stick to the acts brought by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. In accordance with the Council of Europe Resolution, issue: 1481/2006, in the need of an international condemnation of the crime of totalitarian communist regimes adopted on 25 January 2006, I ask that, given that yesterday was the 70th anniversary of the start of the Bleiburg massacre, which began on 17 May in Blyburg, and later continued on the cross-road, be placed on the agenda of a statement condemning communist crimes and with a minute of silence, honoring all victims of the cross-road and communist crimes. I note that in this same resolution, the European Parliament calls on, in particular, all Communist and post-communist parties to re-evaluate the history of communism in their countries and to clearly distance themselves from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes and to condemn them without any ambiguity. Gentlemen, crime is a crime committed by fascists or communists, there's no difference. And we must clearly share in this highest legislative body the difference between the anti-fascist struggle and the communist crimes committed under the leadership of one of the greatest criminals of the 20th century, Josip Broz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u317	Thank you. Who answered next? Wait a minute, I don't see it here on my monitor, so I have to look over there.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u318	Radmanović, replica and...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u319	And, sir, just a minute, now Mr. Radmanović has been reported for discussion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then what? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u322	I know this is technical, there's no political implications. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u323	No, this was really a technical problem, it wasn't, of course it wasn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u324	I'm kidding. So I volunteered for item 2, which, here is the College agreed to enter the agenda, which is the draft law on the Budget of BiH Institutions. We in this call that we had for this session, until this morning, by 10:00, didn't have this on the agenda. This is the most important act in the country. And with all due respect to necessity and urgency, needs, your responsibilities which will result in the passing of the budget, we as advocates have the right to say this, at least I want to make it clear today. We understand, therefore, that this procedure has lasted for a long time, relatively long time, to reach agreement on the new parliamentary majority and that this is in a very short time a proposal that has come before us, which is also to be matured, but I also cannot and do not want to support the approach to the BiH Parliament, one of the equal homes, to deny the possibility of influence on this most important act. And this isn't the first time. And what are we here, what are we representing? Just a voting machine that needs to confirm what someone there has arranged, with all due respect to that someone, the institution of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. And then we open up the public question of what about institutions of cultural and scientific importance, why they've been failing for years, why no one reacts. Here, we'd like to make an amendment, I believe most MPs. What about the most important state agencies, it's not just a political question of whether or not some jurisdiction will move to state level. Do they have enough support from Parliament and from these institutions to work..., the Food Safety Agency and I will list 15-20 other agencies that are of fundamental importance to the lives of citizens and in the process... So here I believe that it will pass, is not a criticism, but I think that essentially this Parliament cannot be denied for the possibility that and that our own contribution to the adoption of a more high-quality document, with all the restrictive circumstances that you have faced, but I do not think that we should allow in the future that we do not have the possibility in one interaction with the Council of Ministers and the predsjedništvo, and the basis of legitimate demands, in some way, to influence the better text of the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u325	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u326	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, chairman, members of the Council of Ministers. I'm making an observation at point 2 and 5 for similar reasons, at least at the beginning of his debate, which Mr Raguž made. It's an emergency procedure of the Budget Act, for which this and the House of Representatives are responsible. I remind you, in parliamentary democracies, parliaments are those who manage people's money and not the councils of ministers or the presidency, regardless of constitutional matters. So we're responsible for this. Bringing us into a situation to look at it one morning and raise our hands, without amendments, is not only irresponsible, but overcoming democracy. I understand the new parliamentary majority that has been created for a long time and are now almost half a year and it is perfectly normal to rush to the Council of Ministers. And is it normal that we don't talk about this at all, that is, we don't have a chance to change anything. I think 12 of us will have a chance at least to say something at this point, if most of us adopt that she is going through an emergency procedure, no matter what we don't have an amendment, right to the amendments, but I have something to say about that, too. The second is the explanation for point 5. I remind you that at one of the previous sessions, when it comes to Criminal Law, we have rejected what you are offering us today to adopt by emergency procedure. It is difficult to explain how these people who decide on behalf of citizens, on behalf of their voters, today say one thing and after 15 days the other. I think it's hard for us to explain it, too, because I don't think any of us should have gone through an emergency procedure. And if you adopt that point, we have something to say. And speaking of which, only two sentences about what Mr. Karamatić suggested. Not wanting at this point to challenge some of his arguments here, and I would have a lot to say, I have to say that this is about too important, complex and complex a subject, so that we can classify it as a part of the agenda at one point – I suggest we do it now. It's a matter that needs to be debated in various committees, not only this House, but also in common, and we need to discuss this seriously before we make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u327	Thank you. Mr. Tadić. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u328	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues. So I feel the need, when it comes to the debate on the agenda, to say two, three things about what we've heard so far. It's not because it's some argument issue that's going to change a decision in one way or another, I don't think the decision here is at all controversial, but because it wouldn't stay hanging in the air some grades that aren't really correct. So here the question is, first of all, I refer here to what Mr. Radmanović was talking about, about Budget, so here, the issue of adopting Budget by emergency procedure is determined by categories normally or abnormally, where this procedure is considered if, then, it is not normal, then it is abnormal, and I would say about this next. First, this procedure was laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, and in that sense it is both normal and regular in itself, given that it is governed by the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I remember a time when the BiH Presidency, where Mr Radmanović was sitting, could not agree on Budžet, when I was here, as chairman, without the adoption of Budžet and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, signed Budžet and he was published. That's insane. And that's the good part, so all of you then members of the presidency were in this situation, and yet no one found a reason to say it was abnormal, but we said ok, if such political relations, if such circumstances, are in the interest of the people who live here, both entities to have the normal funding of these organs that we have here, that everything can work, etc., we'll do what is necessary. So Denis Bećirović has been reading Criminal Law for years to see that we haven't done anything to the Criminal Law anywhere. So, I'd just beg correctness and nothing else. This is a regular procedure that exists under the Rules of Procedure which we now apply. Why? Because 13 Council of Ministers considers the decision to be baked, the House of Representatives has said what it has, no one has even publicly referred to this Budget as not good, was power or opposition. Secondly, about this issue of antifascism. So, no one, I'm sure, from the Club of delegates of the Serbian people at this point and with this occasion can support this kind of initiative. I think that's where we agree, Mr. Radmanović also spoke of it. So, but here, now we have one situation to say something else. This Parliament has so far been silent, nor in any other way condemned by fascist crimes, because these are obviously painful places in various discussions. Not because we don't have a say in it, I'm sure we all do, but because it brings back some other questions. I am personally about to condemn all crimes and to carry out this procedure that Mr. Radmanović spoke of, a discussion about it, not to upset hate, but to come to the text condemning all the crimes committed and then happening, during the last 20th century, in the space where we live. Because the only historical context we have is the context of the 20th century. So, anyone who... called for something he did before, and we came to where we came from, that we had a peace agreement that at least provided peace in this space. So, through that declaration we say and condemn both communist crimes and fascists, and democratics, and monarchists, and such and such, and party and non-partisan, means everything that has happened. And I'm sure we'll support that. As for this BiH Criminal Law thing, we said a lot at the club, so the circumstances were such that we gave the opportunity to talk. We'll see now that there's a point on the agenda, there's a proposal to tell us what's changed in the meantime, Minister of Justice, so let's see what to say about all this. So, well, I'd like to ask you to give the minister a chance to explain what was going on in this whole process.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u329	I thank the first president, Mr. Tadić. Next in line for the debate is Mr. Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u330	I thank the chairman. We know that this is a post-election year, that the elections were last year, we know all of our complexity of the constitutional arrangement and problems with the establishment of power and we know when the Council of Ministers was established. And I thank the Council of Ministers for delivering the Budget in this time, even if we consider it by emergency procedure. Of course, I did last year and before, when, without circumstances like this and without these circumstances, Budget delivered to the House of Peoples by emergency procedure, criticised... There was no reason at the time, there were clearly objective circumstances now, or at the time there was no post-election year, then there was the Council of Ministers, and yet we had since then the parliamentary majority of Budget by emergency procedure. This also means next year the budget in the House of Peoples must not be in the emergency procedure, so whatever it is most people are talking about. So we also have that feeling according to objective circumstances, etc. As for the second proposal to put a conviction of the Bleiburg crime at today's session, I am of course to condemn every crime, but putting only one crime on the agenda and his conviction, in Bosnian Herzegovina's political and all other occasions, is always a problem. 14 There were too many crimes in these places from all sides, and during the twentieth century, and at the turn of the 20th century, that we might be able to put into the agenda in this way. I am in favour of talking about it, but not in this way and not taking an explicit detail from that unfortunately too much criminal past, so to speak. As far as the Law of Amendments and the supplements of Criminal Law, however we look at it, however we set it, we definitely have a clear situation today. ... has launched a procedure for putting Bosnia and Herzegovina on the gray, or black list. The scenario means for all citizens, for the economy and the state huge damage financially and each other. Today, if this law is passed, we have the opportunity to suspend the procedure. Today, if this Law is not adopted, whoever voted against, against, by an urgent, shortened procedure, such as this or such, we need to know very clearly, today if the Law is adopted, we have the opportunity to suspend the procedure of a very black scenario, today, if the zakon does not adopt the procedure in June for a session in Australia, it is a very likely outcome, that is, that we will be on the gray or black list. That's what we need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u331	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is the correction to the wrong quote? Mr. Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u332	Mr. Genjac got it all wrong. So, I'm not asking to adopt a statement condemning a crime at Bleiburg, I've only said about 70 years of crime at Bleiburg. I ask that we adopt a statement condemning all the crimes committed during the communist regime, meaning both in Bleiburg and in all other parts and in the former Yugoslavia, etc. Also, I agree with Mr Tadić that we should condemn absolutely all crimes. That's what I said in my presentation, there's no difference between crimes whether it was committed by fascists or communists. I don't see that difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u333	Thank you. Mr. Radmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u334	It's good when the position and opposition have something to agree on and agree on, we had some agreement in these previous discussions. However, I answered because of the replica and it refers to what Mr Tadić was saying. Sometimes there is a need to remember what it was like, as he remembered how the presidency worked. I remember very well, too. Eight adoptions of the Budgets over the past eight years in the Presidency, seven times I was too loud, and I don't like to remember it. When we discuss this, and I see that you will adopt it as a part of the agenda, I will remember one more time. But when I said it wasn't normal to do this, I didn't mean the business thing. It is true that the Rules of Procedure are as planned as Mr Tadić said. I'm talking about the normality of democratic processes, I'm talking about what you were talking about, 15 of what Mr. Genjac was talking about. So I didn't even charge the Council of Ministers, I said I understood them. ...I said that, as a rule, in a democratic country, it cannot happen that we are not having a debate about the Budget, as Mr Raguž said. So it must be provided to those who are national representatives. And I'm asking you to keep it that way in the future. And neither Mr. Tadić nor Mr. Genjac answered what I asked – what changed in the last month, because this is what Mr. Genjac said a month ago, the same sentence when we rejected this proposal. So you didn't answer that. I don't think anything's changed. And I think, regardless of the black scenarios Mr. Genjac is talking about, and not just him, many others, that this Parliament must not allow itself whenever someone comes to mind outside the borders of this country to call on the phone to change the law. So we are talking about the sovereignty of the country, which many often speak of, swears by both international representatives and us domestically. To remind you, sovereignty means to rule in your own country. This isn't sovereignty, and it's not the first time. I think we need to take care of that. A month ago when we didn't accept this, they said it was okay that we adopted and it's enough, now they say it's not okay. What happens next week if someone calls again on the phone and says it's not okay either. It's the black script again. We need to get away from those black scenarios. We need to get into a situation to tell those who think there is no alternative, that there is always an alternative, even the EU. ... that we belong to those who have been for the EU since the beginning, I think we should go faster and more, but let's not use this without an alternative. There are always alternatives. We hope they're not black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u335	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. We have now, again, the first vice president, Mr. Tadić, and again Mr. Genjac has answered. Right, it's not a mistake, you called again, right? Okay, thank you, mistake. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u336	So, it's just doing the impression that we should leave together and as representatives of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, so that's the question that interests me, I'm sure, both Mr Genjac and you, Mr Radmanović and I, what happened in the meantime. I think the Minister of Justice is the most called and we give him a chance to explain to us what was going on in the meantime, what was going on, what was going on, what wasn't going on, to find ourselves in the situation we were in and how we treated her. That's where we totally agree. It's not Mr. Genjac's address that he can answer that. He's a delegate, with all due respect, of course, he had his own judgment, but he's a delegate like the rest of us, about this. This second question, so in this structure of the political system that we have, are all political parties, that someone is now not being called, I apologize, to a lesser or greater extent in power, everything. In Republika Srpska, we have SNSD in power with our coalition partners, and here we are not going in any further so that it doesn't turn out that we're moving some topics here, that the budget is being adopted there and in this period when there is a stable majority. So, come on, I'm asking you, so let's start with one truth, and that truth here is what it is. The car when it stops to hit the wall, and we've now taken the brake, we haven't taken the wheel, Mr. Radmanović, we're the steering wheel, the Change Alliance, has not yet taken over. We have now reached only the brakes in that car and we are stopping to avoid hitting the wall because of the speed and the management of those who represented Republika Srpska in the earlier period. We, by the time we reach the 16 steering wheel, so surely this car won't hit the wall, but our pressure on the end is unfortunately not so strong yet that the car stops in the wrong direction, it's not up to us. We squeezed as much as we could, but to what extent the gas was before we hit that wall. And then I didn't hold the gas, not the steering wheel, not anyone from the Alliance for Change, but SNSD did it with its partners. So here's the picturesque way I explained our position. I hope I don't need to keep repeating this kind of debate. As soon as we catch the wheel, here's Mr. Šarović with his associates, believe us to make a turn that will make it possible, which is that no one can call on the phone, that no one can call from anywhere on the phone, but that these people are doing their job in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and that they have a responsibility to the citizens and entities, the peoples and what we have here in this political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u337	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u338	Since I'm also directly questioned, in some ways because there may have been some misunderstanding, I'm still going to remind you about the Law of Amendments and the supplements of Criminal Law. As far as I'm concerned, nothing's changed. This has been going on for three years as warnings from Manival last, and this is nothing new. The minister of justice invested enormous energy to make up a law that fulfilled what was sought. A month ago, we made an attempt to do part of it, hoping it might satisfy it. I remind you, that's when I said cash makes us believe, because that's not it. It was clear that it was an attempt, a good attempt, but it wasn't going to end. And it's not a phone call today to do something today, it's the talks of a serious international institution with sovereign Bosnia and Herzegovina, which lasts three years, with respect for our sovereignty and our desire to be part of a responsible international community and in the field of fighting terrorism and financing terrorism. So, I really thank you for this... sovereignty, but me and Mr. Radmanović will probably agree that the issue of sovereignty and the handling of sovereignty by our political representatives implies and a responsible attitude towards the interests of all citizens and all entities in our..., and all cantons, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u339	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Raguž, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u340	Thank you. So, I'm giving up the debate, just for a little while, about what Mr. Tadić said after we had our stand on the agenda. So none of us challenged the Rules of Procedure, the possibility of things being done in a hurry. It's not controversial, right, Koelgija, I even called him responsible, relative to the deadlines, etc. But the intervention was on the fact that 17 can't use this procedure for the most important act in the state that can't deprive Parliament of the opportunity to say what it thinks about the Budget and in a way that can affect a certain, realistically we are not, none of us are and we know, to some extent must leave the possibility that certain things can be intervened in the Budget. So it's about that. As far as point 5 is concerned, there are, in my opinion, different things, when it comes to 2 and 5 although they have democratic logic, what Mr Radmanović said, the right to influence this. But we've had this on the agenda on many occasions. So Parliament was not deprived of the possibility of talking about this law, unlike the Budget. It's very important to say. So, the fact that we didn't agree and we didn't find the possibility, like in many other things, that we don't have a consensus on it, that's our problem. But we also need to make it clear, and I agree, that this is not a matter of day-to-day policy, that this is a passionate issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we need to find a solution not to come up on the blacklist. And I think that in this context, everyone should understand the importance of this issue, not some pressure on this Parliament. But we all have a responsibility, and the College in particular, for what is a democratic standard, an institution of Parliament, an opportunity for MPs to influence, and you should remind us not to seek any intervention beyond that, not us. But there, that's reality.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u341	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Babalj has come to the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u342	Here, first of all, I'd like to say hello to all of you. From these previous discussions of my colleagues, there are in principle no major deviations. However, what we're talking about, as far as Budget is concerned, is behind us, and that's the story of the past and one and the other, that we don't put, which Mr. Tadić says picturesquely, on the cantar of who is guilty, who is not guilty, but that we all try together to send one message to the chairman and his two deputies, or the Council of Ministers, that because of the circumstances in which we are today, and that's what Mr. Genjac said – okay, we'll adopt Budget by emergency procedure. However, no one has said this either, and I know that we all think so, that the 2016 budget should already be prepared on the calendar, because already, friends, more than half of May, that budget by emergency procedure for 2016, the message that we need to send, will not be adopted in this way, because there will be no election years, there will be no circumstances why something really should happen in an emergency procedure. So here's the conclusion about the Budget, if I'm right, it's our message that this will never happen again, that what's here today is a set of circumstances that we all understand. As for the fifth item of the agenda, we'll have a chance to discuss it, not much, here I am spreading and opening up some discussions, we all have an opinion. I hope that after this part of the agenda is over, we're going to take down a burden on ourselves, here's a picturesque one, from the door, and we're not going to let that happen to us, as I heard, that all some black scenarios are in order unless we adopt this. However, I think that we should all be mature to ourselves and to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and primarily to our family and children living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u343	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. I would now, here, ask Mr Karamatić, or now or possibly possibly to extend it for the next session, will still need your proposal, the initiative, as you have called it, the envoys will have to get it to, in order to put it on the agenda. Is that acceptable to you? Because this, these other remarks that were, we will be able to remove them in private, when we discuss each of the points of the agenda. Because in order for us to be able to plead, I know that the envoys and all of us will be looking for this text. If you can't do that today, can we make it a long way to prepare for the next session we're planning somewhere in the 28th of this month? Here, that would be my request, but you go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u344	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I ask the Rules of Procedure that this item of the voting agenda, of course, by respecting all the views that have been made, and we may later, here I would ask the College sometimes in the future to start working, means to prepare a comprehensive declaration that would condemn all crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u345	Okay, thank you. Since there are no more, therefore, reported for the debate on this agenda, then we should first make clear about this proposal of yours, or your initiative, here's what we're going to call it, now we have to plead, I don't see how. Before, then, the statements on the agenda are stated whether we are going to put ourselves on the agenda, because we should make a statement about this, er, whether we are going to put this proposal or Mr Karamatić's initiative on the agenda. Can we start the vote? Vote now. So, of the total 15 envoys present -- for the five, against the nine, one was abstention. From Federation of BiH 5 to, 5 against, no one abstentions. RS 4 was against and 1 was abstentioned. Therefore, there is no general majority and therefore this initiative or this proposal has not been received by the majority and we cannot put it into today's session, that is, the agenda of today's session. Thank you. We will now continue to work on the agenda. Moving to the first point of today's agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up the word for this point? I can't see, there isn't, therefore, reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 19 Prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 15 present, it was 15, no one against, no one abstentioned. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. The request of the College of the People's House to consider the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2015 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u348	I can't believe, ladies and gentlemen, nobody's gonna say anything about a budget like this. Then what Mr. Raguž and I were saying at the beginning seemed in vain, that even... [[You can't hear me.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u349	You might want to sit down, turn it on, look like something's not sounding so good.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u350	He hears himself...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u351	If any of the technical services can help Mr. Radmanović, now it's okay, now it's okay, you can continue. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u352	I need to repeat it or it's on tape, so I can do it again. I cannot believe that no one has anything to say about an act that is more important, if it is not the most important during the year that parliaments adopt. And it's not accidentally adopted by parliaments. It's true that it's according to his own procedure and that we can't stand the amendments and change this, but we can say and show something that in the future 20 shouldn't and shouldn't happen. And that's why I'm going to point to some, a few things, even though every budget could be analysed in detail. It is true that the Bureau and the House of Representatives have determined to keep the budget at the same level as the previous year. And it can look good at first sight, however, I remind you all of the necessary time to save, the necessary time to tighten the belt that requires the public from us. And so someone wouldn't say -- what it was like before when you made a decision, I immediately said that even then I took care of it and all the seven votes I had about the budget were because I thought it should be smaller than this one, than it was before, with concrete remarks and suggestions. Now is not the time to talk about these concrete remarks and suggestions today, because it's impossible to change, but I want to remind you of some things that are at least unusual, which are not savings. The current reserve increased by 40% in the middle of the year, reminding you in the middle of the year is increasing by 40%. And look at the wonders of what happened in those 40%. Now let's go back a little bit. The previous budget sent the Bureau to Parliament without this famous member of the law approving the chairman and two vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers to share some of the current budget reserves as they come to mind. So it wasn't like that in the proposal. Parliament has amended it, accepted and re-assigned the chairman and vice-presidents to share one part of the budget reserve as they will. Honestly, I'm sure the citizens hoped it would never happen again. This year, when we need to save even more money, the Presidency is looking for a part of the current budget reserve to spend as it pleases. And in that presidency last year, man voted not to be either the president or vice-president of the Council of Ministers, let alone the Presidency, and now he votes to be the presidency. I remind you, that you all look at Article 13, so it rightly states that 6% of the current budget reserves of the Bureau will spend whatever they want, each individually by their own decision, without criteria, except that they have an obligation to publish it. And they've already done it before, and now again, 4% of these current reserves will preside over the two vice presidents to spend, again without criteria, and again as they will, except for the obligation to announce what is and how is spent. It's not right, and I have to say it's unnecessary. If the Presidency could, and I say, 15 years to be without it – what happens now is that they need those 6% to spend, past the funds the Presidency has. This is from the current budget reserve, these are new funds... I don't think that's right. If the savings didn't have to look at the internal allocation in the budget, so not just this whole, so you'll see for example. that besides these 40% several institutions have a significant increase and... we are asking you in funds, so not in percentages – 6.4 million Service for, jobs, joint operations of BiH institutions, 6.5 million, and then Ministry of Defence, SIPA, OSA 5.5, 4.4 million, etc. More than they had. We don't have the results of all their work from the Joint Service here, let's say they're exceptional, that they need to be rewarded and that they need to work harder in the next period. Of course, it is understood that the battle against terrorism is very important and that the two of these institutions that I have listed should be significantly supported, but not only by a number, but not just by this kind of money, without the right work programme, without knowing what the results of the work will be, because in the fight against this terrorism, their results are not exactly commendable. There could be a lot of talking about the budget, I guess there's more of those who want to talk, so for now, thank you, enough. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u353	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Is anyone else answering for a word about the procedure? Mr. Tadić, did you sign up?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u354	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u355	Excuse me, excuse me. Dragutin Rodić, Mr Rodić, and I read it wrong. Mr. Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u356	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Given that when determining this point of the agenda, it's quite said about this Budget, but I just want to say a few things given the arguments for and arguments against it. And what we could hear in the discussions, I will only mention that period 2010-2014. The year was a period that was by much specific from the very constitution of the Council of Ministers, and the adoption of the budget was all quite thin..., and we had the first adopted budget somewhere in 2012, '13. A year. But what I'm trying to say is that certain things that I've understood and how much I've read and how much I've met and how much I've met in the inaugural speech of the Prime Minister's Presidency and everything that comes next in this coming period are going to be different. But if we start from the assumption that we are all responsible for spending public funds and we are creating total miles in both public and public in everything that is perception that the largest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina is doing, then here I will tell you this - let this be the last budget to be adopted by emergency procedure and we will see at the end what will happen in the next period. After all, we haven't had a chance, I know it's been a very short time, to go through everything that's supposed to be gone from, meaning, a budget calendar. But, unfortunately, neither the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House had the opportunity to say anything, while the Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives had the opportunity to discuss it. And the House of Representatives brought together the first and second reading, if I'm not mistaken. And today we have the Budget Act by emergency procedure. What I'm trying to say is, every budget, and I agree with my colleagues, is one of the most important acts in every country, but in the future, it has to be primarily programming, to know exactly what the funds are being allocated to. It also has to be an analysis of why it is. We have a small million audit reports on the effects that decidently speak of these institutions, which is good, which is not good. As respected as it is in this budget, I am not going to enter these analyses today, but be sure that in principle it may have been a short time to enter and that ultimately this is not a specific budget as soon as it is a budget of only the institution and international obligations. It's just, I have to mention, we from the Finance Commission and the budget had almost one seminar that was dedicated to the budget for three days. And we were the culprits and we were taught how to adopt a document like this, no matter how hard we tried to tell what it was, but this practice takes too long and I think we should leave it. And here's a year ahead of us is a test of how it's going to go on. 22 Of course, I support what my colleague Radmanović said, we are also the opposition in this House, responsible for future work bearing a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u357	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u358	Thank you. Very short, so we've spent a lot of time around the agenda, but here's the time to say a few words. So the budget is moving within the framework of last year, we know that it's not easy for the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and certainly, therefore, that a great effort has been made here, it's absolutely not controversial. And this dimension that we can't influence today is now limiting us, but only two things. So, if we were to look at all these institutions here that are funded from the Budget, no one can say this is more important, more irrelevant, we can't sin on the soul, every one has the dimensions of responsibility for what's in her jurisdiction. But still, when you look at some things going on tectonically, as much as they have an impact on the overall processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm just going to single out this only enormously real -- the Foreign Affairs Service, let's take this dimension now what's going on, here's so I don't elaborate anything, it's reduced the budget by 2 million, I don't know if it's harmonised, I mean we don't have enough arguments, I'd like to have an argument whether it was necessary to strengthen the financial capacities, given the challenges that stand before that service or reduce them. Here's a question. The second question, we are all talking about the necessity and independence of the judiciary and the judicial institutions. When we look at it, I think it took a little bit of strengthening the position of those institutions financially, so here's what I'm going to say about it. But let's just take one important question of education. We have two agencies here, and here is Mr. Nović, and we've had a hard time getting to them through the Framework Law on Higher Education, and now it's showing how important these institutions are. We did not transfer jurisdiction, so that someone would not misread it, but we established instruments to ensure the development of higher education. And look what we have today, we have one hyperinflation and I would say one rather unargumented force of quantity at the expense of quality and the question is what we do here is to ensure assumptions for the work of these important institutions. And here, I'll mention, that's what we can differ about, about cultural institutions of historical importance. Well, we all inherit that history, we can interpret it differently, it's not controversial, but we can't have an unspeakable relationship together with those institutions. I think that these are some reflexes that Parliament was supposed to show when it comes to this, so if nothing and this little debate should be a prelude to make tomorrow better. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u359	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I don't see any more reports, so I'm closing the hearing now. 23 And now, therefore, we will vote on the procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 15 votes in attendance, 11 were against 2. abstentions 2. From the Federation of BiH for 9, no one was abstentioned. From RS 2 for, 1 versus, 2 abstentions. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the request for a review of the draft law on the BiH Budget and the international commitments for 2015 was adopted following an emergency procedure. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to open a debate on the bill itself, although fellow envoys have already been discussing it, but here I will still respect, therefore, the business provision. I'm opening a debate about the bill itself. If anyone wants to discuss it more, go ahead. Thank you, I don't see that intention, I didn't want to interrupt, there was a discussion about the budget itself. So here I am closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2015 in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 15 present – for it was 10, against 1, abstention 4. From the Federation of BiH for 8, no one was against, 2 abstentions. From RS 2 for, 1 versus, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority there's an entity majority. I find that the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2015 has been adopted. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The College of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held at the 8th session, held on 18.05.2015, in accordance with Article 187. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH unanimously established the proposal to appoint Bojan Ninković as Secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You've received a motion for appointing. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any interest, thank you, I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the appointment of Bojan Ninković as secretary of the House of Peoples. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 Of the 15 present – for it was 12; against it was none, abstentioned 3. From the Federation of BiH for 10, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From RS 2 for, no one was against either, 3 were abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that Mr Bojan Ninković has been appointed secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, and that's it, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u363	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all. I want to say a few sentences on this agenda. First of all, to express my great regret that this Law, such an important law, is very important and we know why this Law is significant, has experienced that it is practically revoted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is applied territorially throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law has been in the process for a long time, and we all know it. We heard in an explanation why this point is an emergency procedure and the least problem is whether it would be an emergency procedure or not, if the essence and content of this Law were fully in line for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think further efforts should have been made by the resolution ministry and that a consensus should be reached with the Republika Srpska, which had serious objections to this law. He was left without any explanation, at least to me unknown, and an additional discussion had to be opened to clarify what was unacceptable by Republika Srpska, or what is unacceptable to the ministry of resort, the Ministry of Justice, the proposals made by Republika Srpska. I don't think that's good, it's not good at the start when the resolution ministers play a role, we know what it is, and it's mostly a co-ordinating role at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in most cases. Whether this will indeed come to a significant extent already at the beginning of a mistrust between resolution ministries in one of the entities along with this resolution ministry. This Law would actually be a good law if Bosnia and Herzegovina were Croatia or some other state, Slovenia or not, Bog of Austrija, when there is a legal system in it that does not have any trust within Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, and especially the public relations towards the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and some of the institutions within Bosnia and Herzegovina, when this is a completely different perception of our relations. Why am I saying that? You see the advocates of this Law say that this excellent division was performed, the precise division between the entities of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, etc., and I assure everyone that this open is an excellent opportunity for classical abuse if desired, wished by the BiH Prosecutor's Office to do so at the level of one of the entities, cantons, etc. Why? For a simple reason – the BiH Prosecutor's Office or some other prosecutor's office and agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that serve the Prosecutor's Office come up with certain data, so-called operational data, in one of the entities, are based on the subject, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. What does the other entity know about it? Nothing. He will lead the case and lead further, and when it comes to the moment when the conditions for conducting certain investigative actions, etc., or pressing charges, we do not think that the Prosecutor's Office will generously say that – here you are in the entity now doing so. No, there's the essence of the division that we didn't, why, so I have a serious observation, why we didn't make that clear, that there's no doubt. So, I'm not going to start with that happening, I'm indicating what can happen, and there's the key to that, that suspicion from Republika Srpska that it can be abuse, not defending this or that for money laundering. This constant explanation of us – Manival is looking for, etc., I was under the circumstances of the SIPA director when we introduced Bosnia and Herzegovina to Manival in Washington and I am very well aware of what Manival means in the first place and how much interest it is in preventing money laundering. And it is not disputed, therefore, that Manival insists on a complete resolution of clean relations in a criminal-legal sense, but it is, and has Manival imposed any formulation, so he said this formulation must be for Bosnia and Herzegovina or I do not know any other state, but simply within 26 Bosnia and Herzegovina we must reach a consensus that we do not harm the constitutional and legal arrangement, not at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor at the level of entities and cantons, and come to a consensus on the formulation. We can't say that these formulations don't go away from the formulation that was in the current law. We're going to interpret differently, probably, one, the other, the fifth, and it's ultimately legally obvious, because they say in lawyers two and two can be four, and in the economists the circus 4, so there's a difference between them and each other. Close to this, it's incomprehensible to me why we couldn't agree on what happened to the property being taken away from the perpetrators. Assuming that the BiH Court is in charge of the case, here is for a criminal offence which is also on the territory of the Federation, both in Republika Srpska and in some canton, and the property acquired by this criminal act is taken away – to whom does it belong? where she is or belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget to say so? We can't base, we're territorially based responsibility, and we're not based territorially when it comes to taking away property. And I think it could have been resolved by such a simple formulation. So I'm sorry that this month, about which it was in the previous time, although it was three years, this, uh, debate about this law, but also this last month when we saw that we were going to have to pass the law, we didn't use it, it was a sit down for one day, responsible people sitting down and formulating very precisely. That's why we can't support this law, especially in an emergency procedure. If it were in the ordinary procedure, then we would have put in the necessary amendments, because I think we could have done it in this month if it had already been considered. When we brought down that previous law and then in this House and House of Representatives, it was said that we needed a new law, that Manival would not be satisfied, etc. But satisfied, unsatisfactory Manival, we should have offered a law to which, which would go in two readings and where we could with the amendments, I'm sure, to achieve a unique position. This is no ordinary law, it's an extremely important law to suppress not only money laundering, there's a lot of what, there's a much more important matter of terrorism, corruption, organised crime issues, which can all be taken into account in some way and under this criminal act. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u364	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u365	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I need to say a few words, and since Mr. Nović, the chairman of the club, said most of what I think is important, but also a little bit of an analysis of what happened in the previous period and just so that after this session, there is a record of a lead. At the end of the parliamentary procedure, this Parliament itself must not be a Parliament of like-minded people, but people with their views and people who will make arguments about this law. So far in public, especially in the last 10-15 days, there have been a variety of assessments and various connotations about this Law and those who support the Law and those who do not support it. You know, they're one for fighting terrorism, for being legal, for laundering money, or for banning all these crimes, and for God's sake, here's another, they want nothing to be adopted and to be a status quo. I, responsible 27, claim that this is absolutely not true, because this zakon has been in the procedure and in the previous session, it has been welcomed by this assembly, we have debated a lot about it. And I will not go back to it, but I will say, given that many here are also calling for Manival, I will say that from 27 January 2015 until the last act, which we received on 13 April 2015, were both different grades and what Manival had been marketing from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So I will say that Mr. Jagland in his letter states that inside Manival there is concern about the time needed to supplement the Criminal Code, and that unless it is possible to adopt the supplements before April 2015 that it would be important to adopt at least amendments relating to terrorist financing, etc., as we have done. After that, there are still a few letters that say that this is not enough and that some other solutions that would satisfy this form need to be sought. After all, Mr. Genjac, when we had this Law a month ago, he pointed to everything and as if he had predicted a scenario of what would happen. I have no doubt, knowing Genjac Gentleman, that he knew exactly what was going to happen. What I want to say is that the government of Republika Srpska has tried on several occasions to agree with the BiH Ministry of Justice to amend and supplement the BiH Criminal Law to recommend Manival, in order to avoid the negative consequences that BiH's criminal law may not be adopted, the Government of Republika Srpska has proposed the very text of the amendments, but has not come to an understanding of the BiH Ministry of Justice. The joint meeting was held in Banja Luka on 11 May 2015 and was attended by a representative of the BiH Ministry of Justice, the minister of justice of the Federation of BiH and a delegation of the European Commission and a representative of Republika Srpska's interior ministry and the minister of justice. The readiness to debate and modify it in the RS government's proposal of 23.04.2015 was accepted by all except representatives of the BiH Ministry of Justice, who insisted that Republika Srpska's representatives explain their position on the inadmissibility of the RS government's proposal. In order not to remain at it, and Mr Nović spoke of the need for agreement, dialogue, consensus, especially with laws like this to be applied throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, they should also be adopted with the widest consensus. And for the reason that it was often said – Republika Srpska's representatives are against it, and in particular they can't explain what they are against, because there's no transfer of jurisdiction or anything, I'll say four points, or three, which is probably what, when we adopt this Law then we'll face certain facts. In view of this proposed norm in this proposed emergency law, this is how the issue of jurisdiction is complicated and complex in most cases of law enforcement of money laundering between entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is particularly true when it comes to cases where the crime of money laundering is stemmed from a predictive crime, and in these cases a predicative crime under the entity's criminal law would be the entity's jurisdictional prosecutor's office and for the crime of money laundering, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This would further mean that two criminal proceedings would be conducted against the same suspect, one at the level of the entity at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not a single criminal procedure, which would be inadmissible from the human rights position. 1. The inability to prosecute perpetrators of money laundering by any prosecutor's office in Republika Srpska because of the territorial principle on which the BiH Ministry of Justice insists. 2. The prosecutor's office in Republika Srpska would hardly be responsible for the crime of money laundering. 3. In the event of the adoption of such a proposal, and given that the proposed amendments in all cases of prosecution by the crime of money laundering are determined by the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office and 28 of the Court of Justice, the assets seized after the end of the procedure would, in accordance with the applicable rules, become assets of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the adverse consequences of the crime could also take place for the Republic of Serbia. And since the Law is an emergency procedure and there is no possibility of either investing amendments or anything to make any changes, I'm going to say that if it stayed in the stenogram, what would be quite acceptable, and I don't think there was a problem here that we could all agree on this together and that today we have a consensus on this issue. So, this article in 219 would read – Who uses money and other property, which he knows has been obtained by committing a crime, receives, replaces, holds and disposes of it, benefits in business or other business, makes a conversion or transfer of it, or otherwise conceals or tries to conceal their nature, source, location, availability and movement of property or other right, if such money, the property benefit, obtained by committing a criminal offence prescribed by the BiH Criminal Act or by other law at the state level, will be punished by a prison of 1 to 8 years. I think this was on the trail of what could lead to a common solution and that would satisfy all these needs. But here, we heard all the arguments today, and from a certain number of MPs we have a proposal ahead of us. What I'm trying to say in the end, this is not a matter of relationship to these crimes, I am absolutely standing in that position where I will always fight for the rule of law. After all, this process did not last just around these amendments to the Criminal Law, it was the Law, which was adopted in this House, about money laundering, so the will to go towards a solution was shown. But I think that there are always good solutions that will respect relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and look for a common denominator, at least what we can about. And I don't think this law was supposed to end like this, but here it is, right in front of us, so we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodić. Are there any more reported according to this agenda item? So it's the procedure. If not, then I'll close the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We're voting on procedure now. So, are we going to consider the draft law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Of the present 15 – for it was 12, against 3, there was no abstention. From the Federation of BiH 10 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from RS 2 for, 3 against, and no one was abstention. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the request for an examination of the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Penal Code has been adopted following an urgent procedure. Eh, now I'm going to reopen the debate as at that previous point, although I say the floor, I see that the debate is being conducted, here is the trial itself, I did not want to interrupt, of course, my fellow envoys. So now I'm opening a debate on the bill again. So, who wants to answer, if he has any interest? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. 29 Therefore, we will now move to a statement on the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124, i.e. we will now vote on the amendments and additions of the Penal Code of BiH. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. Of the 15 – for 12, there were no abstentions against 3. From the Federation of BiH for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one, from RS 2 were for, 3 against, no one was abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH has been passed. We're going to point six, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the bill along with the 4 amendments, and proposed that it be adopted to the House. At the 7th session, held on 26.02.2015, the House of Representatives passed the law in a second reading also with 4 amendments. If there's a need, Mr. Radmanović, I'll give you my word. Here you are, because you are the chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u368	It seems to me, Mr. Chairman, that there is a small difference compared to what you said. Namely, the report you received, it is true, it is exhausted, the Commission has worked twice very effectively and after a statement by the Council of Ministers on the same day has held a debate and is proposing that it be adopted. But no, I don't think so, not like you said. In fact, there have been 6 amendments, I remind you, I must remind you, of which 3 Mr Kadić and Mr Karamatić were adopted, the 3 that I have submitted, 2 were completely rejected, 1 was partially adopted, that is, the compromise proposed by the Council of Ministers was adopted on the Commission and it is proposed that it be adopted in the House of Peoples. And the difference is that there was no compromise, I think, in the House of Representatives, but I'm not sure. So we propose as it is in the report to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u369	Thank you. Then as I understand you, we'll probably adopt the law in different texts then, so we'll form a committee that agrees. We don't have any other choice now, because apparently amendments are different. All right, here's if there's any need and the promoter calls, if you don't. Okay. Now I'm going to open a debate about the law itself. I'm opening up, so we're having a discussion. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 30 So now we're going to get to the bottom of the bill with these amendments. So now we're going to vote. Please prepare. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What, no, we'll wait a little longer for Mr. Tadić, the technique has failed a little bit. So here's a little more clarification, so these amendments have become an integral part of the text of the law. We will now declare the law, and then we will later form a commission that will bring it into line with the House of Representatives. I'm asking you to prepare for a plea. Vote now. So, from the present, if any being came out in the meantime, 14 – for it was 14, no one was against, there was no abstention either. From the Federation there were 9 for, neither against nor abstentions, from the RS there were 5 for, therefore neither against nor abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Customs Policy Act in BiH has been passed. But here, given that it was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we will now have to form a Joint Commission for the Consent of the Text of the Law. I'm asking the presidents of the clubs to state who they are and who they're going to agree with. Will you, Mr. Genjac? Can I help you? Who are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u371	The Bošnjak Club, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u372	It's a Kadić. Thank you very much. Ljila, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u373	The Hrvat club, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u374	Karamatić, okay. Mr. Nović, who are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u375	From the klub of Srbin, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u376	Mr. Radmanović. _________(?) 31 [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, thank you. Now we must, therefore, declare ourselves to these members, so the Joint Commission that you have just heard, is Mr Kadić, Mr Karamatić and Mr Radmanović. Prepare to plead. Let's vote now. Of the 14 present, there were 14 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation there were 9 for, there were no against nor abstentions, the RS also 5 for, no one was abstentioned or against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, I conclude that for the members of the Joint Committee on Harmonization of the text of the Law of the House of Peoples, here are the names of Mr Kadić, Mr Karamatić and Mr Radmanović. We're going to the seventh point of today's agenda, that's it, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Bond Relations in the Civil Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u379	Thank you. I will immediately and immediately, as regards the Commission and as far as these amendments are concerned, very briefly. So the law was done quite technically unqualityly and then was followed by a large number of interventions. 62 amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. It was a dilemma whether to return the law to be re-edited, but yet the commitment was to amend it. It is 62 amendments accepted at the House of Representatives and accepted at our Constitutional Law. And then when the legislative sector reviewed all these adopted amendments in two amendments, it was found that there were technical errors. In Amendment 2, wrong numbering and in Amendment 61 in the versions of our languages, two words were left out in Bosnian. These are the reasons why I have proposed these amendments that are purely technical and I would ask them to accept, which means we're going to have to form a committee of conformity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u380	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. 32 Is there a need to propose, if any? There isn't. Okay. I'll open up the debate now. I'm opening a debate under the bill. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Now we must vote on your amendment, Mr. Genjac. So now we're voting on the amandman to the First Envoy Halid Genjac. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 14 present, there were 14 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH, there were 9, no RS 5, no abstentions against, and no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, I find that the amandman to the First Envoy Halid Genjac has been adopted. We are now voting on the amandman of the Second Envoy Halid Genjac. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. Of the 14 present, there were 14 against and there were no abstentions. From Federation of BiH 9, it was for, it wasn't against, it wasn't against, it wasn't against, it wasn't against, and it wasn't abstentions from RS 5. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the amandman of the 2nd Envoy Halid Genjac has been adopted. Now, get ready to make a statement on the bill. So now we're voting on the bill. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the 14 present, there were 14 against and there were no abstentions. For it was from Federation 9, against and abstentioned no one, from RS 5 for, was against or abstentioned. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH has been adopted. I agree that the Law on Mandatory Relations in civil aviation in BiH was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we must form a Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Text of the Law. Is there any proposal for members of the Joint Committee to comply with the text of the law? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u381	The Bošnjak Club, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u382	podžić, okay. Mrs. Zovko, who are you proposing here?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u383	...on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I would suggest Ljilju Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u384	Okay. Let's go to the Serbian Club, see Mr. Nović, who are you proposing? 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u385	The Serbian People's Club, Mr. Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u386	Darko Babalj. Thank you. So now we're going to make a statement about this commission. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. Of the 14 present, there were 13 against none, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 9 was for, against and abstentions, RS 4 were for, against no one, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, for the members of the Joint Committee for the text of the Law of the House of Nations, Mr Podžić, Mrs Zovko and Mr Babalj were appointed. We're moving to the eighth point of today's session, that's Ad. 8. Work report and Financial Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Postage Transport Agency for 2014 You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report on the work and financial report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2014, and proposed that it be adopted by the House. At its 10th session, held on 08.04.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the Work Report and the Financial Report of the Postage Agency for BiH for 2014. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, of course customs, transport and connections, if necessary. There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and if there is a need. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. No one's reported, no one's answering, I'm closing the hearing. And now we are voting on the Work Report and the Financial Report of the BiH Postage Transport Agency for 2014. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Of the present 15 – for 15, against none, abstentioned none. From the Federation of BiH 10 for, from RS 5 for. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work and the Financial Report of the Post Office of BiH for 2014 has been adopted. Moving to point nine, 34 Ad. Nine. Resolution of Semiha Borovac, member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the Treatment and Respect of Human Rights of Persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u391	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers present in the O.R., I welcome you all. Since we have a net election year completed before us, we ourselves know how active the NGO was on this issue, so the Electoral Law, in particular, has left me with a strong 36 impression of this organisation "Under the Glue". I think we've gone a little bit illogically over all of their objections, or their involvement in all of this. Therefore, my proposal is to include the non-governmental sector in all of this, and to put an end to the sentence instead of a point, and to add the text "and to ensure the participation of 3 representatives of the NGO as associated members." And now I am going to do a little bit, the one from my former profession, yes, this Article 4. ... Interresor working group doesn't have a deadline. I would suggest adding a deadline – no later than 01 February 2016." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u392	Thank you. Any other comments or suggestions? Well, just to get to know the House, I, too, have personally proposed to the Joint College, i.e. invited by this NGO, but I must admit that this is not supported by the Joint College and that also the Parliamentary House of BiH did not accept, therefore, that the membership of this working group includes representatives of NGOs. In fact, there was a question of what to do with others, because there is a lot, so I personally joined the representatives of this NGO, talked to them, and I know they have a lot of such suggestions that we will certainly consider. But here, I had a need to inform the House of what I was familiar with and what I was involved in. Mr. Raguž signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u393	Thank you, Mr. President. I think this was a very rational proposal made by Mr. Podžić and, therefore, as associated members. We all need to be aware that it is not formal enough to form an interresor working group. We did, and in the last term, this inter-resor working group, I can say responsibly, has not made any more serious procedures in the fundamental changes to the electoral law that are necessary. I will only počeću, that you, from the application of the Constitutional Court Decision which ordered that a decision on Mostar and other matters be implemented within 6 months. We have a situation, therefore, that this whole sector, it's not just a NGO, it's also a competent sector for that kind of area, it's had insight into the transparency and regularity of the electoral process, and if I don't talk about it now, we could do it long and wide. But the essence of the story is for all of us to come up with quality changes to the electoral law and to the democratic and regular electoral process as the beginning of democratic relations in this country. It's strongly attacked, not only in these last elections, but in continuity, so, here's what we can do if we can encourage these people who have worked, who have made a huge effort, who have a huge experience now, to sort of be part of this more serious approach to the amendments to the Electoral Law. That's why my support, the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u394	Thank you. Mr. Karamatić signed up, I think, is. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u395	The miracle is the non-governmental sector, I am just imagining how a man, after a day-long haircut, takes the Electoral Law and harmonizes it with European legislation. I mean, gentlemen dear, these self-called NGOs are on the payroll of political parties, so let them guide through their parties the proposals they have and to wrap up the case, or through the institutions of OHR and other international organisations that fund them and control them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u396	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Are there any more reported? No, there is, it's a correction to the wrong quote or something, Mr. Raguž answered again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u397	So it's about organisations that were directly involved in the electoral process, just that part of the civil sector, not the civil sector in general, to be very precise. And, therefore, it is about competent and professional persons who have passed a significant degree of education and training. And it's not about any improvisation, it's about the chance that a part of civil society, like in all democratic countries, can influence, no, they won't give their voice or vote, but they can give their opinion. I don't see that there's anything wrong, that I'm going into some kind of politicization right now, I don't need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u398	Thank you. Sir, just a little bit, so you can't, the first deputy always can. Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u399	I wouldn't, uh, so for serious reasons I came forward... now in this discussion, it's not the correcting of the wrong quote in that classical sense, practically the arguments are all standing, but here we have one technical question important. We are now making a decision on the formation of the commission. We'd have to have a new procedure and competition and names in any way, and we don't now. So the conditions for extending this Decision have not been met. We cannot say – it will be made possible. Who's going to make it happen? We can only make it possible because we form a commission. If we don't have an organization, we don't have names, we haven't had a public competition who might be, one will be angry, the other won't be angry with other things, then we don't have the conditions to adopt what Mr. Podžić was talking about, which, in my opinion, is a very correct and useful idea. So we don't have technical assumptions. We can address this situation by first adopting the Decision so that we can reach a conclusion about it, and in conclusion that in the last five election cycles, the Commission will, in its work or, I apologize, include representatives of the non-governmental sector that have so far, so now we can organise, in the past five election cycles, be accredited with the Election Commission, participate and what I know, so not to say anyone, in order to avoid this variant of which Mr Karamatić is completely justified, so we have various NGOs, 38 therefore, and then through these five cycles have been involved, get some right, I mean not some right but to find themselves in an environment that is arbitrated about future solutions. And we don't have the conditions to do it now, to say it involves. Because then we have to have names, so if we don't have names then the question is who is proposing, so if the question is which one of us is proposing, the question is why and not this one, some of us would have to be a competition. Because, like these non-lvadine organizations, who want the transparency of work, are allergic to any authority getting more jurisdiction than any citizen, as I would say, the concept can give, then the same will be allergic to all those that we have not now included in this Decision, why we chose these or those. And then this topic that Mr. Karamatić is talking about, who, possibly, has a, I don't know, etc. is opening up. So, the best way, and I suggest and suggest it if it was possible, as a compromise solution, it is – we adopt the Decision, after it has concluded on the involvement of the NGO from the NGO sector, which in the past five election cycles have been included in the electoral process, accredited by the Election Commission of BiH in determining the solution to this issue as a partner, and we cannot as... members because it is not a defined concept in the very Rules of Procedure, because it then raises the question of rights, obligations, the right to vote, I have, there is no, compensation for work, which is some things. So I agree with the idea, just about the modification, I think this is a solution that's technically easier to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u400	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Now, are you? Yes, Mr. Podžić answered again. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u401	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. I didn't think at all that we were determining, uh, who in the NGO would participate, if not, maybe let them agree, but I fully accept your proposal, and I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u402	I wouldn't be making a new proposal right now, so here's when we have Mr. Tadić, but I still have something to say. I think it would be more correct, since this commission will work, it will have to call experts from different areas, so also the NGO sector, and also some other experts, now if I say, and this is the conclusion that Mr Tadić has adopted, we have again adopted something different from the House of Representatives. I think it would be more correct then for this commission to be elected, to be used, to say, by the knowledge and experience of the NGO and from other sectors. Because I'm afraid if we're here right now, I say, let's adopt again, we've done something different than the House of Representatives. Well, here's what I'd like to do if we didn't do something that wasn't going to happen. Here you go, say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u403	So, just reminders work. When we adopt the Decision adopted by the House of Representatives, we adopted in the same text what the House of Representatives adopted and we do not commit any further to the House of Representatives or his work. This conclusion, this is the attitude of the House of Peoples in 39 relation to these issues. And he goes by himself, doesn't have to repeat it at all by the House of Representatives, as we've had many times to adopt a decision, and then each home has to make a separate statement about some things where it feels necessary, first of all, for the sake of the public. The conclusions are made for the public. So in that sense, there is no difference between what the House of Representatives adopted and what it adopted. Isn't that right, Marina, am I right? Yeah. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-05-18-0.u404	...to vote, so first we have to make a decision, first we have to make a statement about the decision. So, are we to plead, so here I am closing the hearing if there is no more, is there anyone else, does he? No, I don't. I'm closing up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So now we vote, not on the proposal for a conclusion, but on the decision we vote on, first we vote on the decision. Okay, the conclusion is, is that these names, which we just dictated, are, once again, from the House of Peoples, these are gentlemen, so Mr Halid Genjac, Bariša Čolak and, just a little bit, Dragutin Rodić. You heard me. Once again, I just wanted to make an explanation. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 15 present – 13 for, against none, 2 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH, they were 8 for, 2 abstentions, no one against. From RS 5 for, no one abstention, no one against. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the formation of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation in which we have appointed Halid Genjac, Bariša Čolak and Dragutin Rodić from the House of Peoples. Now we should make it clear, here's the conclusion that Mr. Tadić has just proposed. Right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
