ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-16-0.u4906	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the fourth session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, your Excellency, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we invited the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and all present guests. A total of 36 out of 42 MPs attend today’s session. I find that the House of Representatives session has the conditions for full work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the agenda of today's session, you have been given the invitation for today's session. Agenda 1. Addressing Frank-Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany and Philip Hamond, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I am opening a debate on the agenda. I suppose there are no objections to the agenda, and now that we have changed the place of sitting I can conclude on behalf of all of you that we have adopted today's session agenda, so the address of two foreign ministers who have initiated a new EU approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome our distinguished guests, I welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, Frank-Frank-Walter Steinmeier, and I welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, Mr Philip Hamond. I welcome them to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I welcome them to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, at the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom, the EU has prepared a renewed EU approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the EU's 2 foreign affairs Council adopted certain conclusions on the initiative on 15 December 2014. It is the obligation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH presidency, to make a proposal for a statement on the adoption of the EU Foreign Affairs Council's conclusions, leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina to sign it, and us at both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to accept it. I hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina will meet its obligations. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to ask and announce the address of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Frank-Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-16-0.u4908	.... my last visit to Sarajevo was in May 2014 and it has not even been a year since. Your country then struggled with dramatic catastrophic floods, complete areas were flooded, destroyed bridges, villages cut off from the world. What made a special impression on me during that visit a year ago was the determination that brought the Bosnian society together and brought it together without delay. Together they have just overcome this catastrophic flood, and I think it is this determination, this willingness to bear together the responsibility that this is actually something that your country, even in relation to Europe, can bring to a large extent forward. Since my visit, there's been a lot of changes here. At that time, it seemed that your country's path to Europe had been blocked. Integration was, although there was a lot of effort, it still didn't work out. I think the prospects for Bosnia and Herzegovina have greatly improved since then. One door was opened, one door and just... defined reforms, so for, economic reforms and social reforms, and they are exactly which policy should be lagged right after the October elections. And in December, the EU then formulated the preconditions for the integration and approximation of your country's EU initiative in Britain and Germany. I ask you to accept this opportunity, to take this chance, to pass through that door that is open to you and to take Bosnia and Herzegovina on your way to Europe. People, at least that's how we see it, people in your country with their protests last year actually made it clear what was important to them. They want this stalemate to be overcome, they want the policy to be sure, that politics is competent to overcome all these impasses and they want social and economic problems to finally start to develop in a positive direction. They want corruption to be curbed, to do something against unemployment and lack of chance, they want young people to have one perspective for the future and a lot of hope for the future. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the perspective for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for EU integration. The process of approaching the EU, we want to help you in this process to focus on things that are important for your people and for your citizens, and they are currently the most important for your citizens so that they can look forward to the future, so that they can work and that those old reflexes that they inherited and that they have remained from the conflicting past to overcome these reflexes. We, the EU and EU members are ready to help you and support you on that path to the EU, but that road to the EU, Bosnia and Herzegovina, must set foot that way. Reforms and determination must come and come from society, from miles of society, from politics. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is in your hands. Let me say the shared responsibility of the political elite is the one that matters here. The first steps, and I would like to admit, have already been made, so the proposal, the president mentioned earlier, so the proposal to make a commitment, to implement the reform, has already been made. And after the election, the formation of institutions is already on track, as I've heard, and the already completed institutions that have been established, here they can already start working. And now, we want 3 now to want all political forces in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, in Mostar on this basis to agree on a joint binding work that will take place in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, the orientation for the next reform steps has already given you, the orientation that I already gave you in May last year with the representatives of your country, the EU and the international community here in Sarajevo in time and established, let me say. And I'm glad to hear that, after the intense discussions that have been held, we already have concrete recommendations for reform, for example. labour market policy as well as social security systems, and... as far as I've been able to hear and that they want to do something to fix the climate for investment. I can only support you that these proposals here in Parliament to deal with them, because you as parliamentarians have in front of the citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here a few months ago you received a mandate from citizens and citizens and expect answers to those urgent questions that are important to ordinary people. And please respond to them. I can tell you from my own experience that such efforts even if they seek sometimes difficult decisions it is still worth the effort. I can remember myself, here's a very good memory, so when I remember my country 15 years ago, it wasn't that long ago, Germany is everywhere in the international economy being considered and referred to as the sick one of Europe. I know that the conditions in our countries, Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, are very different, but I want to tell you the same thing, it also took a lot of political strength for us to get lost, to leave the past and turn back to effort and turn to the future with our efforts. And when we look at Europe, therefore, many countries in the EU are currently going through a similar painful process, and some of them certainly achieve extremely significant results, and that, of course, they must leave the old patterns of thinking. And that's quite clear. But I can tell you from my own experience, it is worth it in one such situation to be at the top of the column, at the top of that movement, and to your country, to lead your country to a European future. I've been given the impression that your country in principle has very good conditions for such a thing. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only in the middle, in the centre of Europe, it is a beautiful country that has a lot of potential for agriculture and tourism, but above all, and I know that from my last visit, I learned it then a year ago, you have experienced Bosnian hergic forces, workers who have great motivation and who are very well educated and highly priced, and German businesses value them at the end that are present in your country. And I would only invite you – take advantage of this possibility and these possibilities. Promote investment in your country and create preconditions for them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, last summer, the countries of the Western Balkans opened a new chapter in regional co-operation at the Balkan Conference in Berlin. Almost no other region in Europe covers so many countries in such a small area. And that you agreed that the topic of connection and integration, the connectives become the focus of regional cooperation, I think it's very good, and that the consequence is quite normal to build on the energy and transport networks and to keep on networking. And I'm sure that this whole region will further develop and take another step forward. And certainly we are ready to support you, therefore, in this, your country on the Balkans and the EU to come to an exchange in both the economy and the economy. And we are ready to continue to support this process in word and deed. So until the next conference, which was planned in August 2015 in Vienna, I hope that we will already have the first fruits of this work. Ladies and gentlemen, the EU-led train for large parts of the Western Balkans is already heading towards the EU, and we hope both Bosnia and Herzegovina will board the train. For your country, you have a European perspective, and it means both political and economic stability. And that is in the troubled times in which we live, I find great, great grace. And I think that we could soon and that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement could come into effect soon and that the EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina could open a new chapter of their negotiations if you and when you make a contribution to this. Take this chance that 4 already many countries in your environment have taken advantage of. The EU, you know, once again has given you its hand, but you are now the representatives of the Bosnian Herzegovina people and the population, you are the ones who need to accept that hand and provide the future for your country and show you the desire to work and show you courage. Thank you very much. We are certainly ready to support you in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-16-0.u4909	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, his Excellency Frank-Walter-Walter Steinmeier for the presentation, for the messages I am confident that here in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be taken seriously, in the interest of all of us who live in this country. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to ask and call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom his Excellency Philip Hamond to address the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-16-0.u4910	Good afternoon and allow me to begin by having Presidents to you and the deputies thank you for this invitation to address Parliament. It's really a pleasure to be able to work on a joint platform with Minister Steinmeier. Two months after we launched this initiative that aims to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards becoming a more dynamic, more efficient and prosperous country, which is heading towards EU accession. And I am delighted that the ideas we presented in Berlin in November, which will make this process easier, have so clear, solid support for the entire EU. That support, of course, is a prerequisite for her success. However, our message today is simple – success will now depend, not on what others do, success will depend on what Bosnia and Herzegovina does or does not make Bosnia and Herzegovina more concrete than what its political leaders do. Here in the country's Parliament you play one of the key roles. Issues linking politicians and all your voters, regardless of ethnicity and religion, are the need for rapid economic and social reform. It can really only go through the EU. Frank-Walter-Walter Steinmeier and I have launched this initiative because we understand that the economic and social challenges your country faces require a serious and urgent expansion of the reform programme and in any case resolving the issue of minority rights. Coordination mechanisms are still important and are a prerequisite for EU accession. However, the protests of your citizens nearly a year ago have put in focus clear and strict other issues – stabilizing the economy, encouraging the private sector, creating jobs, especially for young people, strengthening the rule of law and reducing red tape and cutting the costs of government. Our proposal, presented in Berlin, is that if the new government is able to demonstrate its readiness, determination and ability to make progress in this broader reform programme, then we need to respond to the relevant progress on the way to the EU. The more it is done on the ground in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, the more progress it can make. And I am glad to say that our partners from the EU fully support such an approach. They asked BiH's presidency and leaders to take a written commitment to accept the Roadmap for one, a set of broad reforms to move Bosnia and Herzegovina forward on its path to EU accession. If they do so and if their determination is supported by you, the EU Parliament will introduce the long-awaited Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And the challenge now will be to achieve the Roadmap, to establish the 5-coordination mechanisms, to improve the functioning of the authorities, to implement economic reforms. If these steps are taken we will support the submission of a credible application for EU membership. The difficult issues will have to be resolved before EU membership is achieved, but we think our proposal will create the right force for reform, starting with exactly those areas that are most directly relevant to most of your voters. We see the initiatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina stagnating because of the views of individuals, individual party leaders. Now we see that it is indeed time to reach a consensus on reform. We know this time it won't be easy. As parliamentarians, you play a key role to point out which way to go. And since this is the path on which government at state, entity and cantonal levels must start immediately, by focusing on serious negotiations on significant essential reforms that will respond to public demands and create new opportunities for people throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I want to make one thing clear -- there's no hidden plan here. The EU strategy is not a desire to weaken entities or strengthen the state. It is simply a matter of how this country works better for the benefit of all its citizens, whether they live in Republika Srpska or in the Federation. We firmly believe that this is an initiative that everyone should agree with, whether they are in power or outside of it. I am the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom for only 6 months, I have been a member of the cabinet since 210, but before that, I spent 13 years in our Parliament and in the opposition, and today I am addressing you as colleagues of parliamentarians who, whether they support power or are in opposition, play a key role, to analyse the work of the authorities, to put constructive challenges ahead of them through their work in committees. You all have a role to play to ensure the success of this initiative. All parties support the Roadmap and all parties, i.e. all members who are members of the government, are responsible for this constructive role in supporting the adoption of the law so that it is truly possible. And all of us who are members of Parliament know very well that such a project would deliver results is needed to make some challenging difficult decisions that may not be particularly popular in the short term. Including not being popular among our voters let me offer you my experience. In the UK three times, in a period of 35 years, my party was in power to make difficult unpopular decisions on measures to respond to major economic challenges. We made it every time, and we were faced with heavy criticism and a terrible decline in popularity. And every time we gave economic recovery and returned to prosperity, we secured it for the British people. Going towards such major reforms means that narrow interests must be pushed aside. Creating new jobs, especially for young people, is not going to be an easy thing. However, it will be the first collective determination test to fight corruption and overcome narrow factional and personal interests. The country will be asked to work together, with one vote to show resolution and vision, just as it did in last year's floods. And as Frank-Walter-Walter Steinmeier clearly said, the reward which you and the people are great at. Trade opportunities are being opened, aiding, regional co-operation, unifying all benefits for bh. economy, for its infrastructure, for its public services and for its people. What the EU puts on the table is actually a very good offer. I tell you the truth: it will not happen again. It's in everyone's interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina to really take advantage of that opportunity. Given the current economic climate in both Republika Srpska and the Federation, there is no delay time, for hesitation, for obstruction, from any end of the country. This would only send a very negative message to the EU and potential investors, putting the risk at stake of future international economic co-operation and the assistance of international financial institutions. This undermines economic stability, undermines growth, the risk exists to trigger the severe political consequences that we saw last year's protests as well. Therefore, now is the time for Bosnia and Herzegovina to say clearly that it is moving with a new narrative of progress, now it is time for the leadership that puts the country's interests first and leaves behind 6 long years of turmoil and stagnation, the time to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the EU to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the time to make real changes for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to hope and to create stability in the region. I sincerely hope that you, individually and collectively, and your entire country will indeed seize this opportunity at this time to create a better future for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-16-0.u4911	I thank his Excellency, United Kingdom Minister, Foreign Minister Philip Hamond for his messages. I hope that everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina will also take these messages seriously and most responsiblely. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, thank you again for coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I want to believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not and must not miss this opportunity. This is a situation where power is established after the elections and two things meet – this new initiative and the constitution of the authorities. I hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am confident, will meet its obligations set out in this initiative and I want to believe that our country will become a credible candidate for EU membership during this year, and that before that, the Stabilisation and Association Treaty will come into force and will not be based on temporaryity as it is now. Thank you again for your friendly suggestions, instructions, advice and help. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the House of Representatives session is over. I thank you all for your response to today's session. Thank you. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
