ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5425	Dear ladies and gentlemen MPs, honored guests, please take your seats, it's time to go to work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 8th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, media representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs/representers and guests. There's no notice today for a session leave. According to the information provided by the session service, 40 representatives/allegate are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you know, and is indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 171. At the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, as it is the first session this month, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions of oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Mirsad Đonlagić – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, BiH Minister of Civil Affairs; Aleksandra Pandurević – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers or Minister of Finance and Treasury; Borjana Krišto – Minister of Security of BiH; Šefik Džaferović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Salko Sokolović – Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović also submitted a question but beyond this deadline and it will be included in the first next session to elaborate the issue of parliamentary issues in this way. These announcements shall be in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure, delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind again that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session by BHRT was provided, in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure. I thank BHRT for the efforts made under its programming scheme to meet this business provision. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. The first question is a question that MP Mirsad Đonlagić wants to ask. Here you go, Mr. Đonlagić. Mr. Đonlagić isn't here. So, while Mr. Đonlagić settles in and prepares for questioning, I would ask Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević to ask the question, and then we will return to the question of Mr. Đonlagić. Here you go, Mrs. Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5426	I thank the chairman. I am sorry that there is no respected Finance Minister, Mr Špirić, because he is the most relevant one to answer this question as well as the chairman of the Management Board for indirect taxation. The question is whether the Council of Ministers is aware of the fact that the Directorate for Direct Taxation concluded a contract worth 8.4 million marks at the end of last year for the first phase of the construction of a new border crossing near Gradiška. Since it is still uncertain to build a bridge on Savi – on what parameters has such a decision been made and such a contract has been concluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5427	So, we have a question, it is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers or Ministers of Finance and Treasury. There's no Minister here. Chairman, is there anything you want to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5428	Well, I can only say for a little while, we asked for a report. ...procedure is conducted by the Directorate for indirect taxation and we have received a written reply. And we've invited a representative of the Board of Direct Taxation to come today. As far as I can see him... _________(?) Maybe he'll come a little later... He said he'd be here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5429	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5430	I mean, I've got an answer, I can read it if I need it from the Administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5431	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5432	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pandurević, do you want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5433	I mean, I thank the chairman, Mr. Bevanda, I would ask you to provide me with that answer. I'd also like to ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with a complete 3 documentation on the decision-making decisions of this bridge, because I'm afraid there is some indication here of some criminal acts. And if that turns out to be true, we'll file criminal charges. Secondly, I would ask you, since we heard from the European delegation that there was nothing from that bridge, that we were not tossing these 8.4 million, and I see that in the middle of this year they were re-planned to break that contract. Why do we need a border crossing where we don't have a bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5434	Thank you. So, I ask the Council of Ministers to deliver in writing a reply to the MPs. This way we're done, there's no discussion about these questions. So we have a question, we have an answer, we have a comment and we have to stop there. In addition to my best wishes to give you my word, Mr. Bevanda, that's the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question concerns the problem or the problem of education, but specifically the problem in general, but I want to say that I particularly highlight the problem in higher education. It is known how important education is for every society's development. I will list only two typical examples that are listed everywhere in the world as examples of what good and quality education means. It's two countries, one small country, it's Finland and one big country, it's India. Countries that were on, very low-ranked on the world scale on any issue, but today they are technological giants. If we take our education system, I am now specifically addressing and refering to the higher education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the problems this system has are, I think, to all or most of us, extremely well known. We don't have a good education. And not only do we not have a good education, we have an education that goes deeper and deeper every day, sinks deeper and deeper every day. If you just look at any comparison, and the reference are the two lists that we have in the world today, based on which the quality of higher education institutions is measured, it is the Shanghai List and... list. The Shanghai list is something that is inaccessible for Bosnia and Herzegovina and I do not believe that in some foreseeable future we will ever come among those top 500 universities in the world, among which there are sometimes some universities from the region, the territory of the former Yugoslavia or the Balkan region. This may be, this year, the University of Belgrade might appear, the others do not have the opportunity even though they were there and there, was Ljubljana and were ranked on that list by one. If we take... a list that is incomparably more acceptable, incomparably simpler...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5436	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5437	Please allow me a few seconds to extend the explanation because it really is an extremely significant question. Look only for Europe on... a list that is significantly, significantly simpler, more acceptable, as you would say – relaxed when it comes to the ranking of the University in Sarajevo is located in 1983, the University of Zenica on 2270,... at 3962. 4th place, Tuzla University 4455th place, Banja Luka 5141st place, Sarajevo International University 6183th place, Mostar University 6424th place, and the worst-ranked institution is 23753th place in Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5438	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5439	I'm curious now, that's an explanation of the question, I didn't ask the question, this was an explanation of the issues, you know, we're dealing marginally in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's specific when it comes to education, I want to refer to it. I am interested in what the minister is, here thank you... Minister Nović, or his ministry, or the Council of Ministers – What is his intention to do to make an ambience or change at all, or to launch processes that will at least retain the stagnation of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to say create assumptions for a step towards better and higher standards, which are quantifiable and recognizable, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in our environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5440	I'm really asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The most interesting question and the most extensive question can be asked in two minutes, so prepare yourself in the future, please. The word has either the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the minister of civil affairs, as determined by the chairman. Minister of Civil Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5441	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable representative, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, for asking this almost crucial and crucial question for the future development of the economy and society and every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but noting that, for a complete answer, education should primarily include those levels of government in whose original competence is education. I completely share everything he said at today's session and in any case, that this is another type of country probably my answer would then be much more complex and even simpler. So I just want to point out, since time is limited to two minutes, it's impossible to give a comprehensive answer at all, not to mention everything the Ministry of Civil Affairs has done and what it is doing, and what it intends to do in the field of education, because it takes you almost ten times more time. We are prepared to provide in writing an answer to the honourable MP if he is not naturally satisfied with what I am going to try to bring out very briefly. In line with the constitutional arrangement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, education is exclusively regulated at the level of Republika Srpska entities, 10 cantons in the Federation of BiH and Brcko District, as long as the Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for establishing the basic principles of coordination of activities, harmonising the plans of the entity authorities and defining the strategy on the international plan. Our main intention is to make education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible become part of the so-called European space. This is not a goal in itself, but it is about achieving EU standards in these areas, primarily in terms of ensuring equal access and quality 5 education and training for all. In this regard, I particularly single out ongoing and planned activities on the development of implementation and qualification frameworks, quality assurance and introduction of key competences at all levels of education, recognition of qualifications, external graduation and teacher education. It's a key task of the ministry next year. The reform of education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been taking place intensively for more than 15 years, and thanks to exactly the Ministry of Civil Affairs has created a proper complete, I would say, a legal framework, a strategic institutional framework that has allowed EU standards to be approached in these areas. All existing strategic documents adopted in the field of education and training focus on the necessary changes in the education and training sector, such as the introduction of lifelong learning, the integration of formal, informal and... education and learning, better integration with the labour market, the introduction of entrepreneurial competences, which should ultimately lead to reduced unemployment, greater investment in human resources and the creation of a positive socio-economic environment, which will allow faster growth and development of economy and citizens. The Ministry of Civil Affairs is taking action to meet the established strategic objectives of which I will single out only some of them at this time. On a proposal from the Ministry of the Council of Ministers in February this year, it adopted a Decision on the adoption of an action plan for the construction and implementation of a qualification framework in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2014-2020, and its implementation is one of the most important priorities of the Ministry in the current year. And not just in 2015, but in the coming years. The reason for setting the qualification framework as a priority lies in the fact...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5442	All right, time, just bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5443	Only to give the answer in writing or end up like this. I don't see...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5444	Let's try to finish, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5445	I suppose it takes Mr. Secretary a little more time to answer this question because it's really very important and very complex. Perhaps even some thematic session to address the issue. I agree to get a question. and in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5446	Okay, thank you very much. Please, I'm really trying, we have limited time for TV coverage. The Rules of Procedure are quite clear, I am obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, here after four minutes I intervened. I know it was interesting to hear until the end, therefore, this answer, but I must intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order not to have objections. I would ask Mr. Minister to deliver this in writing to the MP. Do you wish, Mr. Đonlagić, to comment on any extras besides what you said? 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5447	Well, I might have left for another chance to comment when I get an answer from Mr. Secretary. I mean, in any case, it's a very important matter for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5448	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto is next, and the question is for the Deputy Minister of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5449	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, respected media, I warmly welcome you all. My question is to the Ministry of Security, the Agency for Investigation and Protection and the Intelligence and Security Agency. My question is – What is being done and what has been done to prevent activities and expose actors who are trying to direct mounted court proceedings against high-level politicians through suspects and convicted persons for serious crimes? An explanation of the question: There are more and more indications and evidence in non-professional and illegal proceedings in judicial proceedings that suggest that you start investigating serious criminal offences... the initial trials are trying to take a wrong turn or even mount new prosecutions of prominent persons. We are witnessing that the testimony of suspects in serious criminal offences is widely placed in the public, statements by convicts, and the statements of the responsible persons on illegal proceedings, as well as on the general state of justice. Among other things, the statement by the BiH Court of Justice President, Mrs. Meddžida Kreso, who reiterated her claim on the TV show on the existence of the prosecutor's or judicial mafia. I don't think I have to stress how much these phenomena destroy citizens' confidence in the judicial system but also in the overall relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially because of the sensitivity of the political moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, since the institutions to whom I ask this question really, because of the nature of the question, I'm not sure I can answer that right away at the session. I expect at least an answer at the next session, it can also be in the oral form and it can be in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5450	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Whether the deputy minister present here wants to start by giving an answer or trying to answer, or to give the answer, let's see what we get. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5451	Thank you, Chairman. I thank Mrs. Krišto for asking. As the river itself, this is a very sensitive topic, but we of the Ministry of Security will, within our jurisdiction, be responsible for your question in writing. As for the other agencies you called, we'll see. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5452	Thank you very much. Here, I am, a commentary on this, but I expect in writing, and here I am thanking you for your understanding. The next issue points to the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, and the issue points to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5453	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on a subject that we actually need to resolve at the most recent time in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to unblock our European path. Much has been said in public but there is much left in the fog, starting with that initial proposal that came from the Directorate for European Integration, to discussions and activities at the Council of Ministers, and the fact that no decision has been taken on the issue. And the question is – at what stage is the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers on the mechanism of coordination of institutions of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of joining the European Union and what are the real problems, i.e. the points of disagreement in the BiH Council of Ministers on this matter, and when will they be removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5454	Thank you, Mr. Šefik. Here, the word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5455	Hello, everyone. I'll try to frame myself in these two minutes, so I'll read a little faster. The existing coordination mechanism has been in place since the 2003 decision on how to achieve co-ordination in the EU's 2003 EU accession process. ... at a high level on the accession process with Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 27 June 2012 in Brussels found that it was not effective, and that it did not meet the intended role and it was agreed that, as a continuation of the dialogue of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Federation and the RS, the County and Brcko District should engage in dialogue in order to.../hardly understand the nervous story unspeakably/... establishing an effective mechanism of co-ordination of work on EU issues. Participants in this dialogue were Mr File, Sorensen, Izetbegović, Lagumdžija, Bevanda, Dodik, Radončić, Čović, Ljubić, Bosić, Cvijanović and Nikšić. In line with the commitments made in Brussels, the Council of Ministers is based on Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Council of Ministers' Law at a... session, held on 16 October 2012, adopted a Decision appointing a team to produce a document and co-ordination mechanism for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European integration process. At the first working meeting held on 24 October 2012, the Co-ordination Mechanism team agreed, among other things, and the Council of Ministers unanimously adopted the following principles: a) respecting constitutional competences of legal solutions, b) respecting the obligations arising from the process of European integration, 8 c) functionality and... all levels of government, d) respecting the need for technical and political coordination. In line with the agreed principles and in accordance with the arrangements at all other team meetings on 21 February 2013, a draft decision was established on a system for co-ordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which provides a concerted voice for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will act as one vote towards the EU. The same-named decision was made and was forwarded to all team members for analysis in order to make final elaborate comments. Based on these members, the team unanimously adopted the following essential considerations: 1st participation of the county, 2nd decision by consensus, 3rd political advice, 4th chairmanship of the working groups at ministerial conferences(?5th Ministerial Conference. The above essential considerations are addressed by letter dated 23 April 2013 to the addresses of the Council of Ministers' Chairmans, the example of entities, and the mayor of Brcko District. ... decisions were adopted by the government of Republika Srpska and the Assembly of the RS. In further talks and activities with the representatives of the entity governments and the European Commission, the Council of Ministers President sought to overcome the solution of this fundamental consideration. Finally, there is, and here is a brief, firm position within the current Council of Ministers by representatives of the Federation of BiH authorities on non-compliance with the constitutional competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a complex political state, with a number of levels of government... Countys in the system of coordination which is both anti-constitutional and contrary to what was agreed in Brussels in 2012. There is also a firm view, from the same, that the decision-making method in matters related to the matter of Eurointegration is not in line with the Council of Ministers Act and the decision-making process but with the majority decision-making process, which will again be contrary to the existing legal decisions and to the 2012 Brussels agreement on one vote. In addition, although it was found at the outset in the principles,... the team itself on the involvement of all levels of government and the need for technical and political coordination remained representatives of the Federation authorities in the view that there is no need for the upgrade and involvement of ministers in the overall process by the labour sectors, but that all work continues to be done within the bodies operating since 2003, and that is the reason for the non-minorisation...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5456	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5457	...responded to such a complex...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5458	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5459	I'm done. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5460	Thank you very much. Please, if I can get in writing what you lied about today, so we can deliver it to the MPs. We haven't had a chance to get to know each other officially about these details. Thank you for this answer. And finally Mr. Salko Sokolović has a word. The issue was addressed to the deputy foreign trade and economic relations minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, Mr. Sokolovich.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here, you said the issue had become to the Ministry and I think it was more directly addressed to the Director of the BiH Veterinary Office. And here, before asking a question a few preliminary information. Before joining the EU, Croatia was an important market for exports of milk and milk products from Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a consequence of Croatia's accession, exports of milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina must satisfy certain EU conditions so that there has been no exportation of these products since 01 July 2013. According to available data, Croatia's entry into the EU left a mark on bh business, especially in milk and dairy exports, so that exports fell by about 50% and clean in the agri-industry sector 50.64% and milk and milk products at the most. In order to assess the overall state of the dairy sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to assess the potential exports to the EU market in early '14. The year was visited by an EU inspection. The inspection made certain recommendations. Six very important recommendations, which I'm not going to read here now, are delivered in writing to the Director of the Veterinary Office. But what I want first of all to hear in response from the Director of the Veterinary Office is: – What, as the Director of Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authority, has done in the last year to remove the recommendations of the EU inspection? – What legal and sublegislative acts have you prepared to comply with EU legislation? – Have you prepared and agreed on a plan of action to address the shortcomings observed by the EU inspection? – What have you prepared and what plan and started to conduct the necessary training of inspectors of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina? – And what is the co-operation and coordination... with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with the competent ministries in entities, or can you present the time when you will carry out all of these activities and provide conditions for the export of milk and milk products, such as meat and meat products to EU countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5462	Thank you very much. Do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers who will answer these questions? There's no one present. What's the procedure then? For the next session, is it? So, please, since there is no one from the Council of Ministers today to answer this question, there is no Deputy Minister and there is no Director of the Veterinary Office to prepare the answer for the next session when questions are asked again in this way. 10 In this way we have concluded the debate on parliamentary matters. Let's get on with our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5463	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5464	Business intervention? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5465	Given that article 173 was violated, because of my question at the session held on 11th02, and then I received an explanation from the Prime Minister's Chairman that there would be an answer either in oral or written form at the first next session. How it didn't happen then I'm interested in the reasons why there was no answer. It is a question – the opening of the Malanian crossing of Raštel Rastela. I ask that this answer be delivered either today at the session orally, if possible, or in writing at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5466	Thank you very much. Do we have an answer? This is what we owe you from last time. Mr. Bevanda, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5467	Well, here came this representative of the Board of Directly, because they were asked a question, and I was informed by Mr. Kutleša that a representative had come.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5468	Do you have an answer to Mr. Emrić's question? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Nothing then, stay where you are. Thank you very much. Prepare for the next session and please, when we say to prepare an answer to the question for the next session, so be it. From now on, then, the name and last name of this place will be produced by those who, in public direct television, do not prepare answers to questions. This is for everyone who's ever been asked to do it. We're going now with the realization of further this session of ours. This way this preliminary agenda is completed asking these MPs questions. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for this session, a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission was held at which there was a quorum for work and decision-making. 11 As for the amendments and additions to the agenda of the session, I would like to mention the following. Add to the agenda: Point 3. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Criminal Code by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House, Act No 01-02-1-4/15, of 06.03.2015. Point 8. Meeting the House and making a decision on the follow-up procedure relating to the implementation of the House of Representatives' Decision on the conduct of a public hearing, adopted for the debate on the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Air Traffic Control of BiH”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01-16-1131/14, since 11.2.2015. (making a decision in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, when the College of the House has not reached consensus). I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Staša Košarac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5470	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, of course, and others present. In accordance with Article 71(1), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Club of the SNSD proposes to consider and adopt a new item of the 8th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: – Decision on the discharge of Members of the Šefik from the office of the Presidency of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. The SNSD MPs' club has tabled a proposal to include a new agenda item for the 8th session of the House of Representatives. The proposal for a new point is submitted on the basis of Rule 71 1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and reads – Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, or a member of the College of the House of Representatives. A new agenda item is proposed because of the need for the House of Representatives to consider this very important issue. The current parliamentary majority did not allow this item to be held on the agenda at previous sessions. The public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very interested in what is also an open letter in the case of "Džaferović" directed by the Republic's families of captured and killed fighters and missing RS civilians, veterans of the RS,... the organisation of the Association of Military Disabilities of the RS, the Alliance of Campers, the Association of Women of Victims of the War of the RS and dozens of local associations stemming from the defensive country war. The point is necessary due to the existence of serious accusations that Mr. Džaferović did not prevent in the past war, reported or later prosecuted war crimes against Srbin in BiH. At the same time, I would like to remind Article 27(1) of the Rules of Procedure that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given everything the public has recently been informed about, and concerns the current chairmanship of the Parliamentary House of BiH, we believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer represent the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. he cannot be the chairman, nor a member of the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. 12 In view of the new agenda, we consider it necessary, urgent and justified, and we call on the honourable MPs of the House of Representatives to adopt the decision, above all as a part of the agenda, and to make the decision in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5471	Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5472	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to invite my esteemed colleague, the head of the SNSD Club, to withdraw this proposal from the agenda today, collegiately and well-meaningly. Why? For the simple reason I think that the methods of parliamentary action should be adapted to the parliamentaryism of the 21st century. When I say so, we know that what is already happening at a large number of House of Representatives is a little more like Parliamentarianism from the Roman Senate. Namely, before the new era in the Senate of Rome... the older each one of his discussions ended with the words of the Kartagin must fall. kolega Košarac ends each discussion with words, approximately Džaferović must be removed. I suggest we return to the parliamentaryism of the 21st century, to withdraw this proposal because I don't think this method of parliamentary struggle is appropriate, and in my court it's not even commercially founded.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5473	Thank you very much. Any new proposals for the agenda? Replica, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5474	Well, if you really care about parliamentaryism in the 21st century, then you would have to bear in mind that this parliamentaryism implies that anyone can propose, that it would be parliamentary to adopt the proposal as a point of the agenda, and then your parliamentary right, in which no one is teasing, is to decide for or against. That's also 21st-century parliamentaryism. So, when in one parliament you can't get a single point of order to discuss it, then it's known that we are at the time of the Roman Empire and not the 21st century... You insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5475	Thank you very much. Any new suggestions? Mr. Beqirovic, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5476	Very short. So, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is an expression of the will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I fully support that you are running for certain things, but 13 when Parliament declares that it is up to all of us who are participating in Parliament to respect this will in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in particular in the House of Representatives. In this case, we've come forward six times, and we'll get back to you today. I'm just asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5477	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5478	Well, I don't think Mr Bećirović should lecture us here on parliamentaryism because, just what counterpart Majkić said, if you are calling for parliamentaryism, then it should be allowed in this Parliament, if he declares himself democratic, to discuss all the topics that MPs are running for, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and certain rules that rule here. You said there was a certain citizens' will here. Well, the will of the citizens is, Mr. Bećirović, and what we are proposing today, only of course the will of these citizens does not interest you at this time but we are very interested in the SNSD Club. And so, what my colleague Majkić said and I will agree with that, and I support it – if you are Democrats and if this is a democratic House then you should eventually adopt this point, plead to it and say what you think, because you say there is a majority. Besides, I don't know if SDP is even part of that majority or not, but you don't have the right here to slow down one club, which is a majority club, the strongest club from an entity that's coming, to slow down what we're looking for. And don't try it in vain because we will always be in this House, while we are MPs using our democratic and political right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5479	Thank you very much. Mr. Staša Košarac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5480	Thank you. I'd really like to suggest that you don't give us any advice... because you have no right to do that. The SNSD MPs' club uses the current Rules of Procedure and is our legitimate right to express our political views in Parliament. Our political stance is clear that at the head of Parliament there cannot be someone who is suspected of committing, concealing or later processing war crimes. It's about Mr. Džaferović. It is our legitimate right to represent the interests of the citizens of Republika Srpska who chose us here, it is an expression of the will of citizens. We are doing it here today quite legitimately and we will do it as long as Mr. Džaferović sits in the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives, because his role at the time of the war, the doubts expressed through the extensive documentation that is in the Prosecutor's Office, offends the interests of Republika Srpska. And we have the right to do so and we will do it continuously because we find it inadmissible that, here's how little you say, the path of European integration is being led by someone who has a war... And that is our position, and please don't even try to discipline us in any way in Parliament. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5481	Thank you very much. Are there any new suggestions, Asime you're looking for a replica, are you? Asim
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5482	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5483	Yes, of course. Here you go, Asim Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5484	So it is absolutely the right for everyone to propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the rules of this House of Agenda and the persistent insistence of the SNSD Club is a reflection of their policy, and I understand that. I just ask my colleague Košarac and the people of his club not to qualify for people, that people do not insult themselves until it is proven, because what Mr. Džaferović is in this House, and he was chaired by former councils when there were some other majority. It is clear, therefore, what is the SNSD's position today, the president of SNSD, but, and it is not controversial, but to call on some of the spirits of the past, to call on some witnesses, here which the daily public has already forgotten and were as some carriers of certain documents very important. Let's wait, so I respect your political stance, let's wait for the institutions of this country to determine. And of course, Mr. Džaferović as someone who has been on the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina for many years and someone who has co-operated with partners from Republika Srpska, and in this House, I say, which he led, is certainly a person who has credibility and has... full support.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5485	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Prepare for a plea. We are voting on a proposal from the SNSD Parliament Club. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Six votes for, 32 votes against, two abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has not accepted this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I now declare today's session session of the House of Representatives as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Criminal Code by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House, Law No 01-02-1-4/15, of 06.03.2015.; 4. Selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Representatives: 15 (a) the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, (b) the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, (c) the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, (d) the Joint Commission on European Integration, (e) the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (f) the Joint Commission on Human Rights; 5. The appointment of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Representatives: (a) PSBiH delegations to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union (IPU), (b) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), (c) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance (PSNATO), (e) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Central European Initiative (CEI), (f) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSM), g) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean (PSUZM), h) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSS) of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union (PSSEC) of the South-European Parliament (SEC), the Assembly of the General Assembly of the European Parliament (S). Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: Ambassador Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-2-1440/14, from 24.12.2014, after a public debate; 7. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11.02.2015, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the draft law on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. Act No 01-50-1-253/15, of 11.02.2015. 8. Meeting the House and making a decision on the follow-up procedure relating to the implementation of the House of Representatives' Decision on the conduct of a public hearing, adopted for the debate on the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Air Traffic Control of BiH”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01-16-1131/14, since 11.02.2015. (making a decision in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, when the College of the House has not reached consensus). We're moving to the first item of the agenda. So that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering their words, I'm closing the debate. 16 We move to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5490	I thank the chairman. Please note that this is a business intervention, given that the material we have obtained does not appear to have created business conditions to vote for this list. And you have already listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that half of the House of Nations, half of the House of Representatives, is satisfied, however, the same business provision provides for 2/3 members in each commission to be elected from the Federation, 1/3 from Republika Srpska. When it comes to, secondly, the OSCE Labour Control Commission, we have 5 from Republika Srpska, 7 from the Federation, so no respect for the business provision. When it comes to third, the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, we have 3 from Republika Srpska, 9 from the Federation, is not respected business provision. And also, fourth, the Joint Commission for European Integrations – 5 from Republika Srpska, 7 from the Federation, has not respected the business provision. In the case of the other three joint commissions, the business provision is respected because there are 4 of them from Republika Srpska and 8 of the Federation, but these three, the business provision you quoted yourself was not respected, so I am surprised that the College delivered such material for consideration. So I'd really like to ask you to keep going. I may continue to take part in the debate, if I may have your attention again, the chairman, I am still discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5491	You don't have to tell me what I'm going to do, Mr. Arnaut. I'm conducting the consultations necessary. And if I ever talk to a secretary, then it has nothing to do with your discussion, you can talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5492	No, I'm just, I wasn't saying what to do just asking for your attention. So please consider this a business intervention in accordance with Article 76(1). Rules of Procedure. And I expect the chairman to continue to act in accordance with this article and decide on the justification of this objection. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5493	Thank you very much. Mr. Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5494	Thank you, Chairman. So, in the spirit and yesterday's Expansive College and this morning's College of Clubs, or the session of the club I belong to, I'm asking for one change. So in the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, number four is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. In the spirit of debate, Mr. Đonlagić, yesterday at the Extended College, I propose that Mr. Safer Demirović from the SDA Club go here, and at the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on 6th, where Mr. Safer Demirović was proposed, to go on a new proposal, Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5495	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5496	So, on that point, we absolutely support it, we are really sorry that no one, not only from the SBB, but from the opposition to the Federation, is put in the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, and we all know how important this is. So, not just from the SBB, but from the Federation. However, this proposal is still not going to solve this business problem that I was talking about, so we definitely support that someone from the SBB, and thus from the opposition from the Federation enters this Committee on Administrative Affairs. However, it is also necessary to address this problem which I do not understand how the College, in addition to the clear provision of the Rules of Procedure, missed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5497	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5498	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. When giving a solemn statement to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in the second part of the sentence and the solemn oaths we have made, we have said that we will protect and defend ourselves for human rights, fundamental freedoms and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I remind the representatives and delegates in this very respected House, and very respecting the personality, personality of all club presidents, and especially members of the Collegis of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, among which are all my friends, I feel the obligation and duty to, as the former First Deputy Chairman of the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, as a member of the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms of the Parliamentary Assembly of the 19th Council of Europe and as the current member of the Commission for Gender Equality, point to this House a very harsh oversight that is taking place in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Not in all the political parties I congratulate, those who managed to avoid the trap, but it is evident that the Law on Gender Equality, which was passed in 2003 and had changes in 2009. ... The law prohibiting all types of discrimination, including discrimination on a gender basis, which was passed in 2009. There is a fact that in the permanent committees of the House of Representatives, except for Mrs. Majkić, there is, as far as I remember, no female president. As far as the joint commission is concerned, it is quite evident that no woman from both homes is the president of the commission except, I say, rare political parties, whom I congratulate, who have taken care of the participation of their delegates or MPs, as they are already called, in the colleges of joint committees. I am not sure that in the spirit of our promises made to the Council of Europe, and here there are members of the delegation in the Council of Europe in the current term, I am not sure that in the spirit of our promise is also in the context of our European path, and especially in the week marking gender equality, this is the commission's schedule and the chairmanship and the formation of colleges, because I am not very clear to me, and yet I say, I respect each individual and every proposed president, whether the composition of the committee is done on the principle of valorising the results of the present representatives, and they are very verifiable in the reports of the Centre of Civil Initiatives and all others. Is this an attempt by the College of both homes to discourage the new MPs who have entered the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or those of the new future deputies who will come after us. I don't think any woman sitting here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is worth less than any other man. I am not known as a particularly feminist, but I am very hurt about the fact that we are also in Brussels, as members of the Gender Equality Commission, to mention the non-compliance with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, which is not implemented even in this Parliamentary Assembly. I therefore think that we have come to a situation where the Commission for Gender Equality is absolutely pointless because it is not even implemented in these high homes. What do we expect then when it comes to lower levels of government, and it would be fair and correct, with all due respect, so with due respect for those who respected it and with my congratulations to those political entities who put their representatives as the chairman of permanent delegations that you will later discuss. I congratulate them, and I think every single person deserves it. I don't think this House really has the right to break two very important laws, and these are the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. It was the order that, when it comes to the previous MPs who have worked in the Parliamentary Assembly, verify their effectiveness, the measurement of the work of the MPs is possible, and that, in addition to that, their expressedafinities, which are not respected here in this list, are thus determined by the commission. Secondly, as far as permanent commissions are concerned, as I am not going to discuss this later, as regards commissions operating outside the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is high time that the Parliamentary Assembly proposes finally candidates who have the capacity to learn foreign language, because we really leave an unserious impression as a state when we lead a budget of translators with us, without being able to say ourselves in English or in one of the world languages what we have to say to the representatives of the international community, and such a case has unfortunately happened all these years. So I really think from this place and that the message that two colleges are, which I deeply respect, especially club presidents, I say most of them are my friends, I don't think the message is good and doesn't encourage a Bosnian-Herzegovina woman to do politics. Thank you, 20.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5499	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5500	I'd like to thank the chairman. I welcome all those present as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality and as someone who came from a party who took care of women on political candidate lists. I must also point out that from this place we cannot fight further to achieve gender equality, because like this body and like this House, we go one negative message. And I support my colleague, Kapetanović, and I sign everything she said, and I call on my fellow MPs and MPs, i.e. the College to consider how members and members of the committee are appointed. And if this means this motion for a decision and this timetable that are first, second and third, second and third chair and vice-president, if that is, that we know how to report, or whether we will vote or support this proposal, or whether the College will consider what we are talking about, because then the Commission for Gender Equality absolutely has no function in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5501	Thank you very much. Who else? Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, present guests. Of course, the choice of members of the joint co-committees of both homes is something that is not so simplified, because the commissions are diverse and should at least respect the affinities and what people are dedicated to and what people know, and in which they can contribute the most to the work of this House. This House is called the House of Representatives, not the House of Clubs, like that Dom called the House of Peoples, not the House of Clubs. And, at the very least, it would be correct, at the very least, to respect the individuality of each MP, or representative in this House, and not to commit violence against parliamentarians. I am really interested in the explanation that Bosnia and Herzegovina's patriotic party Sefer Halilović and the A-SDA Party who have one MP each, you constantly group them into the same commission. Is that what you think we don't need this House and that we can't provide us with more or more, and that's how you want to reject us? If that's how we need to know. Because there'll be situations when we're needed. And it would be fair and it would be correct if we were given the opportunity to work on several sides. What the usurpations of clubs do, so read how they structured, at the very least is not correct to those who chose all these MPs here, and these are voters. Voters didn't pick clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5503	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I had a need to pick up, not only after these discussions and discussions I heard about the appointments for the joint committees of both homes, but in some ways I said that to the Joint College. Namely, by respecting all these discussions, which you have now presented here, the Joint College had to take into account first and foremost, meaning, the following – that the Joint College proposes proposals in the Joint Committee to take care of entity structure, the situation that comes within the meaning of the proposal from one and the second home, the strength of the party, clubs, the position and opposition, and the birth structure. And I'm really going to say that I've been trying to take care of every single element. When we came up with certain proposals, I don't know, about the strength that helped us, here's the secretary of our committees, etc., to sort of compare everything, everything isn't possible. I'd like to hear from one of you who has this proposal, who can sort of sort of sort of line this up, I'll raise my hand for it first. As far as I'm concerned, I'll say, the structure of women's representation, when we came to all the committees, then I told my colleagues at the end, as if we had agreed on certain proposals after two hours of discussion and reflection, then Softić told his colleague Džaferović and I asked – is there any woman at the head of a committee, is there any woman in these committees? I have worked hard to deliver proposals to women in front of the HDZ of BiH and the House of Representatives and, of course, the People's Club of the House of Peoples. And then he said, "Now tell me if there's anything we agreed when you opened the question to us." And indeed, my colleague Maja answered, and I tried, and I was the only proposal in the Administrative Commission, so in some way we tried to point out the situation, because I, too, wasn't happy first of all that I found myself in that Committee. But here, I found myself kind of like a proposal of the profession, because it really is the Commission that should give the most of the answers to the basics of the profession, since the good part of my colleague knows what the jurisdiction of this Constitutional Commission is, not demeaning any way of any representative sitting here if it isn't that profession. It wasn't my intention. So I want to say that, that means everything that can be a proposal, I will now propose very briefly, given these discussions, that we really need to sort out some of the comments that have been made if we want to end things in business, so I'm going to suggest a very short one to say maybe they're paying attention. Although we cannot bring the matter to an end, we can only bring it to the House of Representatives if we have the opportunity to change some members who are in the House of Representatives, meaning from one commission to the other, that Mr Arnaut is satisfied with this observation that has been made when it comes to entity representation. And we certainly don't have a chance to hold a joint college today, because we should call together a joint college of both homes, so we can compare it between one and the other homes. So, here's what I wanted to tell you in some way that it wasn't easy to make a deal together. And above all, when it comes to this representation of women, it is up to the party proposals they have proposed. I was, too, but of course not taking myself for the right to suggest, sometimes I reminded that we also have other colleagues within other parties, but of course every party had the right to propose who it wants and who it thinks is best and can adequately represent, is it, the party within a particular commission? Here, I wanted to, I needed to tell you this, in terms of my views and principles. And yet another, just so I don't forget, that, of course, one part of some agreement and proposal went in a way that also proposed candidates in the joint committees in a way that, as some do so, let's say the current parliamentary majority, because a number of commissions also require that representatives of opposition parties be represented. Today there is still much not clear, 22 but what was my principle, and I will stand up for it in this House, is that the opposition will also be represented in our committees in the way and in the strength that it deserves in this House. We also led, as far as possible, the account that the SNSD as currently the largest opposition party was represented, so it received one chairmanship of the committee. Also the next party, it's the SBB party by force in this House of Representatives, and I'm myself personally due to the principle, sometimes some of them told me if I'm proposing to someone from the SBB, etc., I said no, these are my views, these are my principles. The next party is the SDP, etc., respecting what colleagues who think have said. We tried where we could and there in some way to settle it, because I personally have a colleague inside the club that we were trying to find, and I wanted to find her somewhere in the commission, but we couldn't sort of arrange it, so I also had to give an answer and explain why this situation happened. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5505	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5506	I thank the chairman. I thank my esteemed colleague Krišto for this presentation, but allow me indeed, I noticed that you said that it was necessary for my intervention to be satisfied. I mean, if we started talking about the clear provisions of the Rules of Procedure as satisfying individual representatives' wishes, then we have a problem. And, we saw this and at other violations of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Đonlagić was warned, Mr. Salko Sokolović today did not, before he asked three questions. So let's talk about the Rules of Procedure as a Rules of Procedure. The provisions of Article 52 are clear, 2/3 from the territory of the Federation, 1/3 from the territory of Republika Srpska. Now, how could the College have made such a failure that out of the six joint committees in three, half, it did not satisfy this entity principle, that is, the principle of even entity representation. And in order to avoid any confusion, I'm not saying here that the Federation is damaged at the expense of Republika Srpska. In one commission, the Federation was damaged, Republika Srpska was damaged. So it's not even about trying to outwit someone. It just seems like it's really about, so let's be gentle, it's about the least bit of thoughtlessness. Now, how can that happen to a colleague, I don't get it. But in any case, I really want it to be recorded in accordance with Article 92. The Rules of Procedure this in the record, so as an MP, I ask that a warning about the breach of the Rules of Procedure be recorded in the minutes. And then also in accordance with Article 76(1). The Rules of Procedure, and since my finding on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has been spoken of as meeting my requirements, I request that the chairman act in accordance with Article 76(1) and decide on the justification of the objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5507	Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Kapetanović, replica. Replica, Mrs. Kapetanović, you've already had a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5508	This is not a replica to Mr Arnaut, but unfortunately I have to, although it is about my friend, the very distinguished Mrs Borjana Krišto, to say that her participation in the College as the only woman in the 23nd College of both homes gave me hope that even as a delegate, former delegate to the Council of Europe, she would be very aware of what was going on in the Council of Europe and the fact that the lobbying and lobbying periods in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the stay of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe, very much appreciate the efforts of us who were there and the efforts of those who were not there. That's the first thing. And I expected to be honest with you, knowing that you're always making your point clearly, that this time you're going to articulate it very clearly, without a doubt, in the way that you've always done it before. Although it was also about my club, I am sure, with certainty that the joint committees were not formed on the basis of the credibility of the representatives in terms of the educational structure, even if they were not respected demands, or requests, or our proposals that were put on the list of wishes in committees in which we believe we can contribute, even if it was about me. I showed interest in the Human Rights Commission for the simple reason... the diplomacy of that class was the only one in the generation that got 10. In the Council of Europe, my effect in terms of lobbying is very well known, along with two of my coelgics in the period of fighting for Bosnia and Herzegovina's stay in the Council of Europe. I'm not one of those who only came on the day of the vote. And thirdly, and what is very important, I again refer to the fact that it seems to me that in the College there was such an atmosphere and a little bit in the sausages as in the old English proverb..., which in translation would mean roughly – you can catch what you can catch, that it is so entrenched, that the joint committees are really not taking care of the previous results of work, taking care of the educational structure of the candidates and above all taking care of the sexual structure. And I know you, as a very truthful and just person, I expected that you would simply, if some of the clubs didn't do it, and it turns out they didn't, that you would take care of it. And so this doesn't take it as a replica at all, because you know that you are the person I respect, and the College has shown what it thinks about MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5509	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5510	I'll be in touch for the first time. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues, the Presidency of Parliament of the House of Representatives. So, now it seems a little awkward to me and I don't know why Mrs. Kapetanović should have, now it means to transfer responsibility to the only woman in the College, and we're talking about gender representation. So now you're not even clear to me what you're accomplishing? So the lady in the College worked and did probably what she could on the issue of gender representation. Now you've just become a vague visual of the previous discussion you've had. And on professional and professional representation, so I think that we MPs are all equal here regardless of, therefore, professional training, we have the right if you are going to participate in the work of committees at least uneducated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5511	Thank you very much. Who wants to talk any further? 24 So, if no one is answering the word, let me just say that there is a legitimate objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure concerning the entity structure of the committees. And we will today, during this session, hold a session of the Colleges in an extended composition and try to correct what concerns the House of Representatives, because today we are actually deciding only on members of the House of Representatives. This came about because we proposed to the parties, and it is possible to see what the reasons are. And this business injury will be corrected, so it cannot be adopted with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only with full respect for the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going to the next item on the agenda, I'm closing the debate, and that's point five, Ad. 5. The appointment of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Representatives: (a) PSBiH delegations to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union (IPU), (b) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), (c) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance (PSNATO), (e) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Central European Initiative (CEI), (f) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSM), (g) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean (PSUZM), h) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSS) of the South-European Parliament (SEC) to the General Assembly of the European Parliament (SEC) (SEC) to the Assembly of the Assembly of the General Assembly of the General Assembly of the European Parliament, The joint college of both homes prepared a proposal for a decision to appoint members of parliamentary delegations. Article 193 The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the way in which the members of the delegations are appointed. Therefore, we need to appoint members of 9 delegations and those from the House of Representatives. A joint college with the House of Peoples has been maintained for reasons why relations, ratios, criteria must be agreed, so there are many of these elements that must be respected when it comes to these joint commissions and these delegations, and given sizes according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Mešić answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5513	Mr. Chairman. I propose that the decision to appoint members of parliamentary delegations, item one at the regular number 8 of MPs Mirsad Mešić be replaced with Denis Bećirović. That's the deal we made at the club and I'm asking you to... 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5514	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs. I also propose a change in the composition of delegations that I have agreed with my colleague, so not with my kolegij, but with my colleague. Namely, in the Interparliamentary Union of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at regular number 7. Momčilo Novaković replaces Jovan Vukovljak, and in a delegation to the South East European Co-operation Process, the regular number 3 means Jovan Vukovljak is replaced with Momčilo Novaković. So this change does not affect, so neither the entity nor the entity, so it is simply within the same House, so I would ask that this statement be supported by colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5516	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I once again, it is that something in a smaller number is currently here than at the beginning of the session, but I still welcome those who have tenacity and patience, and also an elementary understanding to listen to their colleagues, so those present here. Before I say anything about these proposals for these delegations, I'd just like to point out a number of examples of disrespect for the opposition by the position. Now that I don't use hard words, but I don't think it's good for the development of parliamentary democracy, and it's particularly not good, given today in terms of these discussions that have talked about methods and parliamentaryism where colleagues have repeated it countless times, I think that in this very spirit, the position should be much more respected by the opposition, and I think that my colleague Backović is partly talking about it. And if that's how it even has, I'm going to set an example of double standards. Republika Srpska colleagues who are in opposition and at BiH level are in opposition (?), they complained in Republika Srpska at a meeting of the National Assembly of the RS that the position is arrogant, autistic, closed, cruel, however you like, we can now qualify it, and that it is not good to show disrespect for colleagues sitting in parliamentary benches. So I would say that as my wish to practically have a single principle, not to apply double standards when we're talking about the same thing. If we look at these proposals for these delegations now, they are, as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, relatively well balanced, however I would still make some remarks for individual delegations as mentioned here. Let's say I am sorry that our proposal is not respected in the sense that a truly competent man who could contribute to the affirmation of this delegation and could, in a decent way, present both Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Parliament in the Council of Europe to be the fifth deputy, i.e. the fifth member who is in permanent, or what I would say, in the constant assembly of this delegation. 26 Besides that, I don’t even think I know what principles and principles have been governed here when the composition of this delegation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was conceived, that we have a ratio of position and opposition disproportionate, that we should say 4:1, and we should follow the principles of which Europe is going, which are, in fact, more respect to those who are representatives of the opposition, so it might be 3:2 here in the context of this delegation. If we look further at these delegations that have put forward the proposals, it appears that, in fact, what Mrs. Krišto was saying, it went on in this order that the opposition from Republika Srpska, or the SNSD Club, was respected as the strongest club, and until that was the case in the accession of delegates, or members of the Federation delegation, where, therefore, the opposition from the Federation was not respected. Perhaps it is one problem that, as I would say, is difficult to resolve, cannot be satisfied, but at least it should be the impression that this position wants to respect these fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy and that it shows much more respect for the representatives of the opposition, especially given the competence of certain people who are proposed for certain positions. We're sorry that we don't have in the Ladies' Club, we'd be very happy to suggest that, as I say, we don't feel right now out of the way of this discussion, and otherwise the currents of all these principles concerning this Gender project, but here, that's what it says, a reflection of the voter's wishes, and there's nothing we can do about it. So, in general, I think we can stay on this that some commissions have been elected by them, if no one here is going to see if there's at least someone who knows a language, so here's what we're going to suggest in this one commission, and so this delegation, excuse this Francophone association, the speech area, and then we're looking for someone who knows French. That's how our colleague Arnaut came as a man who is part of this delegation, and I think that much more should have been done to ensure that competences are respected. I think that, in part, my colleague Kapetanović talked about it, and I can totally agree with it, although I can understand some of this opposition that would practically want to take everything for itself and wouldn't give anyone anything to do, no matter how much it can contribute or help, it can, _______________(?) Position. I'm sorry, the position, the position to take from the opposition everything, not to give anyone, to show that they know and wash something, which would be good for this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular, let's say we tell the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5519	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5520	Thank you. Yesterday at the Extended College, I stopped calling from a respected colleague, Đonlagić. You see a colleague when you talk about something, then you need to get the proper information. We, when accusing the government in Republika Srpska of being boastful of the opposition, at least you must know the Rules of Procedure of the 27th National Assembly that brought this power. The opposition in the National Assembly of the RS has no right and cannot propose a single item of the agenda, it cannot propose any amendments and amendments to the law without them being mandatory to the agenda. It was denied the Businessmen who adopted the ruling parties in Republika Srpska. By contrast, here, according to the Rules of Procedure, the opposition can propose any amendments and additions to the law, and amendments and additions to the laws are both adopted and all initiatives, here are colleagues Bećirović and SDP Club, including your proposal to amend and supplement the law. We... many laws have never succeeded in the National Assembly in nine years to raise 42 votes to adopt the position, let alone the solutions we propose to be adopted. Never has any conclusion from the SDS MPs' club in nine years' time in the National Assembly been supported. So is it possible that in nine years we couldn't suggest anything? Now, about this kind of arrogance and haughtiness of power, sir, we're talking, which you can't compare to the situation in this House and our behavior. We also supported and voted for what you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5521	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5522	Apparently, my colleague Pandurević didn't get me very well. I did not talk about the problems of Republika Srpska and about the relationship between the SDS or other political options that are in power, which are present as members of the National Assembly of the RS. I was talking about that no proposals are respected here and that the elemental principle of equal representation or the need for greater representation of the opposition is not respected, because this should represent the state and that this is how the parliamentary democracy of a country is pictured. I was talking about these things, and I had no intention of criticizing or listening to these statements that were sent to me by Mrs. Pandurević. Obviously, then, she didn't get me right. I'm sorry to say so, but I think I was clear and I think I was absolutely right to say this, saying and criticising the relationship between position and opposition in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5523	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5524	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Pandurević. I thank you for reminding us that by now only the opposition has proposed laws in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I am talking about a new assembly, and it has been more than 3 months since the constitution of this House. And I think it would be very good and useful to get some bill proposal finally, here's three months we've given you, we're talking about that 100 days it's close now, here at least the Rules of Procedure doesn't stop you from proposing laws. Or if we continue this way, it seems that only SBB, SDP and perhaps some 28 opposition parties will propose laws, and we will continue to receive a 7-point agenda of which 3 are relevant, and the other 4 concern the adoption of the minutes and so on of some of the current issues. I thank you again for reminding us of this positive action of the opposition in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5525	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5526	Even if these laws were of quality, and in accordance with the existing constitutions, I would be very pleased, dear fellow Arnaut. First of all, you're mixing things up here. It is the position of the majority behind the Council of Ministers. The SDS is not sitting in the Council of Ministers and we cannot therefore be considered as a position until the moment we sit in the Council of Ministers. We are opposition to this Council of Ministers. The other thing is, as far as your colleague's concerned, I've got it all wrong. You said nicely those who are opposition in Republika Srpska and criticise the power of darkness that it is arrogant, and we behave here as well. Yesterday at the Expansive College, you even said, the opposition leader who sits in the College, you didn't mention the name from Republika Srpska, which is the position here, so we act just as arrogantly. No, Mr. Đonlagić, we, when we deployed positions from Republika Srpska, the president of my party was very broad-minded and democratic, I wouldn't have given the SNSD all this if I had wondered, if I had decided. But he's a democratic man and what I can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5527	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5528	Of course, my colleague Pandurević couldn't understand or understand me, nor hear yesterday what I was saying at the Expansive College because all the time with a colleague she was sitting with at the meeting she was discussing, so I was forced to ask them to stop and pay attention, at least, maybe I'm not saying anything smart but at least collegiately to hear what I'm saying. It would be good for everyone to be, if anything, at least ready to respond to what I've had to say. Of course, I didn't say for a moment that this fellow member of the College who said that, but I said it was one of the leaders of the opposition in Republika Srpska, and that opposition is here at BiH level. That's what I said, and I didn't say one moment alluding to anyone sitting here in the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5529	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić has a discussion. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5530	I understand that the Joint College had a very difficult task to come up with a proposal for this decision and that a large number of criteria had to be met as we have heard in reason. However, I am interested in what criteria a party holding one representative in the House of Representatives is limited, that they could not have been a member of any parliamentary delegation. Is that exactly the ratio? That's what I'm interested in about proposing this decision, is that what it was about? I think it was worth considering that a party representative who has one representative could be found at least as a member of one of the parliamentary delegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5531	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5532	Thank you. At the session where this House established the principles and established the committees of this House, I said the following, so I will try to quote myself – I would ask you to respect what people have been educated for, what people know, how many people know, what people can contribute most to the presentation of this country, in the finality of this House. I set an example of people sitting here speaking three languages, they don't stick them with a toothpick, they talk to them, they read fluentli, they read, they write, they talk. This kind of thing obviously doesn't need this House. I also fully agree with my colleague sitting on my left. You should've taken care of it for a while, and you've got room. Mr. Džaferović, you're here in one, here in the other. Mr. Bariša Čolak, my colleague I know, Bariš, I've known for 40 years, here in one, there in the other. Well, at least you didn't have to be in two, you could have given some space to others. This isn't a home made up of just one, this is, we don't know what's going to happen over the past four years. These 4 years will be very turbulent, and we need people who are able to find space with a quality profession, or how to present this country with knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5533	Thank you. So, I'm just like the chairman of the House put in SEECP, because they say the Chairman of the House has to be there. If he doesn't have to, he doesn't have to. And I'm not in any more places, Mr. Backović, so the public wouldn't be misinformed. So, I'm only in that one place and I'm in function, if you don't have to do what I do. And I'm not in two places, and you said I was in two places. Mr. Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5534	I'm sorry to hear from you again, so here's my replica now to Mr. Backović. It won't be a big deal, so I'm just reminding you that this is a House of Representatives, that 30 people who have been chosen from and from the people sit here. So this is not the Council of Ministers, this is not the Government, this is not an expert team, this is the House, this is the House of Representatives, and we can choose the people of our composition. Who is interested may be able to hear or listen or in some way check, but so someone speaks three languages, that someone is a doctor, so here we are all MPs and we have the right to be elected to committees, delegations and all the working bodies of this House. So this is where politics is manifested, here we represent those who chose us, and we are no experts, therefore, to work on some expert teams, governments, institutions, etc. Please stop that story. So, it's good to find a solution like that, but don't keep your eye on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5535	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5536	I'm not the first person to apologize for mentioning names, not the personification of names, but the number of people. And I don't think you have a problem, Mr. Džaferović. Anyway, we have Mr. Čolak three, two, eight, three. But, well, you know, it looks like the muscles are working. Dear colleague, I didn't think here that... but I was speaking towards the affinities. So we all have the same status here, but I told you about the affinities. I'm very interested in how a colleague of yours, who's a doctor, would put, I don't know, for planting parks? Would she be pleased? Or she would be more pleased to discuss what is the structure of health care, medications, etc. So, I told you about the affinities.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5537	And that we don't have her in health care.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5538	Well, I'm saying the situation is like that, I'm just telling you, I'm talking about people's affinities here, that that segment should at least respect you and nothing else. I'm not talking here how much I, you, or anyone here is educated, but I'm saying we respect. I hope you've been following the previous one, what's been happening to us and telling our representatives in the Council of Europe in English, so I'm very interested in who understands what they've been saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5539	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5540	Thank you very much. I listened carefully and thought. I'm not the kind of guy who'd replicate because of a replica or to say something. Indeed, I believe that replicas or some of our business provisions should point out that we are all in some way constructive, and that we are protecting this House's integrity and that in the 31st place we end up dealing with or clearing up the situation. But of course by respecting all the things you said to my colleague Backović, I didn't want to replicate at home, you were actually mentioning names, so I guess in your second, in a way, you fenced your replicas. So, by respecting everything we've taken care of and what we need to take care of, primarily in the Rules of Procedure, I think we all agree on that, but it's not from any of us to mention any names. So you mentioned, among other things, that Mr. Bariša Čolak is in some commissions outside. You must bear in mind the fact that in the Five Envoys Club 4 there is a HDZ BiH and that is the HDZ matter. We took care of both gender equality and, in our opinion and assessment, some competences, or concrete suggestions, or these others that were heard. Now that I've said it in some way, I'll look back on it. So, all the debates I'm hearing here we've been keeping an eye on, and here's my colleague, Kapetanović, and I didn't want to discuss it with her. That's all the party proposals that came from different peoples, including those concerning the opposition. If the ruling one proposed from the opposition or from certain entities, people were in these proposals, both from the Republic of Srslla and the Federation of BiH. So let's be open and clear here, and I want to be that way in order to clear this situation up and make it fully in line with the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5541	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5542	Well, nothing, I, Mr. Chairman, am likely to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the Electoral Law and will no longer be able to be on the list one who does not speak at least English.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5543	Maybe that wouldn't be too bad. Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5544	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr. Backović for his discussion, signing what you said. Now it seems that in the Bosnian Herzegovina society in this very high House it is a shame to have qualifications, to be educated, let alone to know a foreign language, how one can dare to work on himself at all. It is not normal for one person to be in two delegations in delegations that go outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, from which political parties he was from, and that happened in the House of Peoples. You have the fact that he's a member of the College, a colleague who's in the College of Two Joint Committees, and that's not normal. It's just not normal, and so far it's not been a practice, and I agree with the predecessors who have discussed it, so no matter what political party it is. I think that the study and these replicas Mr. Lovrinović referred to me, and I say again, the fact is that it seems a shame to say that a man was educated, that someone in continuity worked on himself and on his education, so clearly came out of his basic profession not 32 wanting to be just a doctor in politics, but to be a politician who also knows modern diplomacy, who speaks excellent English and who is an excellent lobbyist. And here there are living witnesses, in the image of Mr. Magazinović, whose honor I believe, I am sorry that my colleague Marković came out, my colleague Krišto, I have great respect, and I am very well aware of who in Brussels lobbyed in Strasbourg for our stay in the Council of Europe. So, this is not an effect either, but don't lecture me on the fact that I mentioned that during this very important period of Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU accession and the acquisition of candidate status, it is not possible for us to go with translators, that delegations, led by delegations, are people who do not speak foreign language actively or who have shown themselves passively, or only on the day of the vote, in previous commissions and meetings or delegations. I cannot, as a man, reconcile morally, ready to suffer any consequences, no matter what political party it is. I would therefore like to conclude, at the end of my discussion, to conclude, that in most cases the results of the work in the previous Council of Europe's meeting and delegation, as well as the Joint Commission on Human Rights for which I dare say that it was one of the best committees chaired by Mrs Pandurević, who I was the first deputy, was now placed 10th in that same Commission. I am asking this occasion to delete my name from the place of First Deputy in the Council of Europe delegation, it is my first request. And another request to make my mandate available as the second deputy to Mrs Dušanka Majkić in a commission called the Foreign Affairs Commission which essentially ratifys international contracts, and I am making available a mandate in the Commission on Gender Equality, because that equality does not exist. And please certainly remove me from the Commission for Human Rights from the tenth position after the great results that my primary colleague and I had in the last term. And let this mandate be the first place for a replacement, especially those who don't speak languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5545	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5546	So I repeat again that this country also has professional bodies, Council of Ministers and other bodies, institutions that need to work on this job that you have been talking about, and Parliament has a role to play. However, now that you have boasted in the previous term, I am, for the first time in this term, we see where we, as much as you have written and done it, thank you very much, so continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5547	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5548	Mr. Lovrinović, Mr. Gentlman, you first have no right to deny the work of your predecessors who were in the previous assembly for a simple reason because you do not possess enough information. There are conscious deputies here who know this, who have followed very important Council of Europe meetings that were not lobbyed by members of the Council of Ministers but members of the 33 Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in a great delegation, it has been an honor for me to be among the five who addressed that day. So in the Council of Europe, not lobbying the Council of Ministers, but lobbying representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and there should not go those who do not have qualifications or who have proved to be airmen from airplanes to aircraft and who have only come to plenary sessions, raised their hands and possibly said a few words of the text read. Please don't do this, I respect you as a gentleman and as a gentleman. But I think that if the BiH Parliamentary Assembly finally wants to make a good impression on the international community that is simply full of people who are coming to it and are not able to do without the budget of translators from the International Relations Department to travel, which creates additional costs to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and we are talking about some savings effects, such as we are willing to co-boys to save something, let's let's give full capacity to people who can and know and who have the results of the work. There are such here, here I am giving my place to the first deputy in this delegation to go to anyone from any political party who wants or belongs to them, since both colleges did not take care of the results of the work at the most significant session that was a plenary session thanks to which Bosnia and Herzegovina was not expelled from the Council of Europe and was not placed in the rank of Belarus. This session may have remained in the shadow of the failed Brussels negotiations and is therefore unknown, and you know there are people who are not ready to throw themselves in front of the cameras and make statements and praise themselves for the work they did not do. And I respect you as a gentleman and a gentleman, and I don't think it still makes any sense for this debate of ours whether it's a shame to be known in some business or not. I think that every Parliamentarian should work in the best way in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and present his citizens, not just from his basic profession but from his own.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5549	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5550	and the skills and knowledge he worked on on his educations. There's also a doctor of science and magistrates here, so I don't think you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5551	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5552	I'll do it again. Anyone under a line can say what they think. However, what my colleague Kapetanović said is a matter of yours Club, a colleague. We can discuss here for hours and replicate, I don't know either because of the profession and because of this and that, your club proposals are in that. And, of course, what you just said you were staying, it's all about the club. We're gonna take some kind of break and break and if there's someone inside the club to change their name, it can, but it's not what I mean for a debate here on this still respected House. These were your Club's proposals and I'm asking you to try to clear it up inside, and not here, because nobody here can help, I can't help it, I'm saying that, let's just say you're not you, I'd love it as a colleague if you'd met, so I mentioned to my colleague Saša, etc., but it's not mine to suggest, they said you could be in a replacement position. They also put you in a replacement position because Mr. Šepić was the proposal. So that's all things, and as far as the club's been run, let it be the right of the club again, of course, every party. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5553	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5554	My dear colleague, the president of this House. I didn't mean anything casual or ugly when I spoke and mentioned the name, on the contrary, of a man I greatly respect myself personally and very much communicate with. Here I was talking about the possibility of recruiting more people, those who are called MPs. I wasn't saying why one in five, maybe one in all, but I was talking about the fact that a larger number, to make a dispersion, to give the ability to work more people. Well, it's also from your club, because your club also numbers five people there, so that all five are involved, so it counts so much here, that everyone is involved, so there are Hrvat and other political parties, that they all get involved. That's what I was talking about, not thinking about something ugly personal to a person. On the contrary, I say again, publicly speaking, this is a man I personally greatly appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5555	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5556	I thank the chairman once again. Here, Professor Đonlagić spoke at the very beginning, I mean, these discussions about how we came up with some proposals, so he formulated it the way that it really happened, if nobody lets us find someone who knows French, it really was, exactly. We didn't propose anyone for francophony, our club, if we're talking about club proposals, so our club that we know didn't have a proposal for a delegation in francophony and I got a call whether I could be in that delegation because I know French. Therefore, it is not true that Mr. Lovrinović's remarks were not taken into account, were taken into account but selectively. Why didn't I get an invitation similar to or the same nature to ask me if I would be in the Permanent Delegation to the Council of Europe? Now, that couldn't have happened, but no one wanted the francophone, so I got a call. I don't want to in any way, in any way reduce the importance of francophony, it's an extremely important, useful and above all influential organization, organization. But Bosnia and Herzegovina's influence in francophony is extremely limited for the simple reason that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an observer in the francophony, that's a fact. So, we have here, not to say more important and less important, we have more influential and less influential organizations not as such, but when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where we're a permanent member, it's obvious we have more influence than where we're just an observer. And that's particularly problematic when our club isn't looking for that place, so then you call people. It's literally so presented to me – there's one missing, can you since you know French? That's really amazing. Now, here we come even to a fundamental issue, and here I don't want to talk about names, but here I have a report from the first part of the regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – Strasbourg, 26 to 30 January 2015, so very recent, and this is still about this previous delegation, namely a delegation that should now be replaced by jal', and in the composition of the delegation were Mrs. Milica Marković, Mr. Saša Magazinović, Mr. 35 Mladen Bosić, Mr. Senad Šepić as members of the delegation, and then we have a secretary and very interesting we have a gentleman, here's his name doesn't matter, we have an interpreter. Now, I know about Mrs. Milica Marković who speaks French extremely well, Mr. Saša Magazinović, when it comes to at least English as far as I know, there is no need for an interpreter, so the question arises which of these members of the delegation needed an interpreter. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I was talking, or I was there when Mr. Šepić spoke English, when you mentioned him, so he certainly didn't mind. Eh, here we come, therefore, to this composition of delegations and now we have, so Professor Đonlagić has already mentioned, we have a composition, a permanent composition, so, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, probably the most influential in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this one, and here we have four from the position and only one person, or one from the opposition and that from Republika Srpska. So, there's no opposition from the Federation in constant synergy. The other thing that is also very important, here I again find it necessary to underline it when it comes to club preferences, our club did not ask for francophony and especially did not ask for me to be in two delegations. Then I have a problem at my club, what am I in two delegations? Why did I get a call if you wanted to go to the Francophony, why didn't I get a call if I was going to the Permanent Delegation of the Council of Europe? Either we'll have people there with headphones, because I fully support myself and understand what Mrs. Kapetanović is talking about, and I think it's really necessary to consider it, or we'll have these, like, reports, so we'll have translators in those delegations. You see, clubs suggest, the House of Votes, if the House decides, then it sends one message to those bodies that we send people to. He's sending a message. Don't kid yourself about it. And I think this is necessary to resolve. Here we have now issues and degrees, withdrawing names from certain delegations. I really consider it appropriate to suggest the leadership of the House to take a break, to put this one better way, in a way that will take into account these objective criteria when it comes to qualifications, and in accordance with the importance, that is, the influence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in an international body, and not that people who can, without an interpreter, be substitutes to people who will lead the translator. I need to be direct, Mrs. Kapetanović was also direct, I fully support and agree with that, uh, and here I suggest the House to take a break, to agree on this because indeed, and also to take into account the influence of the opposition, because in the Francophony we have two persons from the opposition, and in the Permanent delegation of the Council of Europe we have only one person, and the francofony numbers three, we have two of the three from the opposition, and in the Council of Europe in the Permanent Delegation we have only one person and only one entity. So, this, unlike the joint committees where the Rules of Procedure has been clearly broken, is the ratio here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure since the Rules of Procedure do not specify a concrete ratio, but it can be said that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure’s Rules of Procedure, however, the ratio in terms of positions and opposition, taking into account the relative impact of these organisations, i.e. the importance of these organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the influence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the same way, is definitely not taken into account, or taken into account, but has been taken into account in a way that this position has taken over the most influential delegations and where the opposition is respected, it was only done in the case of opposition from Republika Srpska. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5558	So, I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the debate. We within the College, when the debate on this topic began, agreed to listen to the debate on both of these agenda points. And since we will today only choose representatives from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commissions and delegations, and the ratios are known from what has been proposed on the side, by the Joint College, we have decided to hold a session of the Colleges in an extended composition and to see how we will first of all coordinate these 2/3, 1/3. Mr Sadik Ahmetović comes from Republika Srpska's entities and in two places, so I apologize for mentioning Mr Ahmetović's name, because it was proposed by the parties, so we will try to introduce this into the Rules of Procedure on the College. I'm taking a break by 1:00, and right now I'm calling the Extended College to go to the 2/II room for a meeting. Use this for lunch. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, continue with the House of Representatives session. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, after a public debate
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5561	Dear Chairman, I didn't answer for a discussion on this point, but you weren't watching, and I was embarrassed to hear from you, asking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the SBB Club before you started talking about this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5562	So, I'm taking a break for 15 minutes and we'll continue exactly at 13:45. The break is at the request of the SBB Club. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. A break was requested by the SBB MPs' club. I'd like to ask the president of the club if he needs to speak to the House. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5564	The Honorable Chairman. The SBB club requested a 15-minute break to consult on points 4 and 5 of the agenda, that is, what we discussed at the Extended College so that we could prepare positions for a plea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5565	Thank you very much. We're going back to work. I'm opening a debate on the 6th agenda I've already opened and read everything I should have read from the opening notes. Mr. Mirsad Mešić answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5566	Mr. Chairman. The SDP club will not be able to support the Constitutional Commission's conclusions. We believe that three months has been enough time for every expert of any kind in this country to be able to state its position and further delay the statement of the Resolution on Sutorina to actually bring nothing new. We call on the MPs to vote or accept or reject the proposed Resolution and not to drag it out anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5567	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the overall atmosphere that was created, and about what is now called the Sutorin case, we still need to get a little colder, that is, what people say, we who are representatives, a little colder, colder heads, talk about this topic more clearly. The Commission, which is responsible for this Assembly, as a congregation body, gave its opinion. We also got an opinion from a public debate and then we're in an objective human dilemma whether or not both of them are looking at the legal context at all and whether they're looking at what's ultimately the consequences of, let's call, the Sutorin case. I will start at the end, nowhere and no one has said, and that is consistent with what we have here, the Constitution of BiH, the constitutional context and what it is a constitutional determination. Niko. Secondly, no one said that our, or the state in which we live was created by something called, please remember this well, the Peace Treaty, the Peace Treaty. It's not about... the paper where someone arranged that's the deal, that's it, but the contract. Niko one mentions and says who the parties are in this peace. How this peace arises and between which Contracting Parties. Three main contracting parties... from Dayton are the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is gone, there are legal followers of whoever signed... or the Peace Treaty. Legal followers are the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. I know by circumstances, and 39 I know that there are today, the cards that have been taken away and that just some of those who took part in the public debate, I don't want them here by name and last name, prepared to take those tickets to Dayton. Niko one asked a question about the Sutorina case. And in this Peace Treaty there is no such detail, but there is something next, so we need to read it well, and that is why we need an English version because, in certain segments, of the radically translated Peace Treaty, where it is said – the practical state. In our language, in our termology, the actual state means the found state, what happened at a given moment. What happened at the moment? That's what these legal experts and those who deal with legal-imvine, I don't know how soon they have to explain to their public what it means. Is the actual state of affairs of what we are talking about Sutorina is in historical context before the Treaty of Peace ownership of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina or is the actual state of affairs found to be who manages it? Who? We can talk, I hope that my colleagues will not find themselves in what I'm about to say, we can now talk about a historical concept of what kind, so we listened to the participants preparing the first constitution of that country after 1945 when Đuro Pucar star told us – what, it's salt water, we can't feed cows, because... _________(?) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, yes, ma'am, that's what the participants were saying, you have that audio, you have on YouTube you can look at what we need because everything south of Makarska was supposed to be Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll give you an example of a city that, and it is and it is, it is Baška Voda, you know what the word garden means - special, but it is not in Bosnia and Herzegovina but in the Republic of Croatia. And it's a practical state, it's a fact, and there's no historical context where it is, what it is, and how it is. We're talking about something here now why we're not sure what they're getting us into. I'm in favour of any square centimeter of territory owned by this state being returned to this country, and there's no price, but I'm not for us to enter into some legal battle that's legal uncertainty and we won't finally know where it's leading us. Whether it leads us further away or perhaps closer to the EU and Euro-Atlantic integration. This cannot be compared to the dispute between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, it cannot be because the Republic of Croatia could not get a vote to join the EU before they agreed to go to international arbitration, that is, the International Court. And here we are entering the process before we came to real Euro-Atlantic integration or European integration processes. I think it is necessary in the report given by the Commission to add, Mr Komšić, I hope you do not get me wrong, to add that legal experts give us the interpretation of part of the Dayton Peace Agreement which treats the way territorial demarcation is treated. Because I'm saying again, it's about the Peace Treaty that's the oldest at this point, because the weather is closest to us. To give us this, as well as to give us legal interpretations, full legal, no longer cartographic, geographical, legal interpretations of possessions. Not wanting to challenge it, I want it to open up and I want, if this is, after these legal interpretations of the relevant persons, when I say the relevant ones, to be known by international law, to decide in which way to approach the problem if it is in the real form of Sutori's property of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although we still do not have a law on what we will define the assets of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5570	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5571	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. But here's what's getting smaller, especially here today when this debate on the Sutorina Resolution started. I don't know why, because we had the opportunity to hear here when the first debate was held, some who had made themselves available, will tear up their doctoral degree if it was proved that Sutorina had the basis to belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to say this, we've had a chance to hear legal experts and geographers and economists and historians during the public debate, but this is on top of everything and a political issue. That's why I'm telling the gentleman who offered to tear up his doctoral degree that this is not just about the academic community, but this is a matter for all citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I suggest that if they leave it lightly and simply to Sutorin, here to the neighbouring state, to tear up their belief in citizenship, I think it's more appropriate. Why am I saying this? Because this is, like I said, above all else and a political issue. That is why I belong to a group of MPs who believe that today we should vote on the Resolution whatever the outcome is and put an end to this issue, and I am closest to the solution that the international court actually has to resolve the issue of the dispute, if we can call it, between Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because all historical factors, i.e. facts on the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the situation found is on the side of Montenegro. Therefore, let someone who deals with international law look at all aspects and all the facts and make whatever judgment he makes, we will respect it, but none of us have the right to say – well, Sutorina belongs to Montenegro because it is a matter of the interest of the state and of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I think it's more appropriate that someone would eventually tear up their belief in citizenship than an academic degree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5572	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5573	The Honorable Chairman. If the matter were so clear, we wouldn't be having a discussion in Parliament for two and a half months, having public debates, presenting their views. It is evident that from day to day, from week to week, and in Parliament and by Parliament, we have had the opportunity to face the abundance of arguments and facts that have not been published so far, which are now very much coming to the public, and that we are almost all aware that there has actually been an injustice here against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's less and less dilemma between us. There are other dilemmas, whether we can correct or not. I have something very clear and precise to say. First, it's not good and neither is it true that any of us claim that Bosnia and Herzegovina was created by a Peace Agreement, so in Dayton. Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its existence after Dejton. It's not my grade, it's a score that 41 is contained in the BiH Constitution. So Article 1 talks about the continuity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also very important in this topic. We've come to the conclusion that we're having a public debate. Businessly speaking on glass is whether we could bring the resolution, but we did apply, as the chairman said, analogy, truth a little and selectively, etc., however, a public debate was held, in my court useful, etc. And we today, according to our Rules of Procedure but also the conclusion of the House, need to make a vote on this matter. Everyone was invited to this public debate. Everyone who wanted to, they wanted to come to a public debate. The contribution to the public debate is not only the people who participated in the public debate, but all those who discussed it over the past years and months. But there's one thing that's questionable here. He says we'll call in experts, say international public law. Let's do an analysis of how many people we have throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina who are really experts in the area. The answer is on the fingers of one hand we'll count them. What do we really want? Can we today make precise criteria whether we are calling on experts from Bosnia and Herzegovina alone or calling on experts beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina? If the answer is and this is the second country we're calling from, from which we don't call? And not to mention the great experts who spoke Bosnia and Herzegovina and both, so we experienced what we had experienced all these years and decades. And it is not good if we do not respect the fact that the debate included academics Omer Ibrahimagić, member of the SFRJ Constitutional Court, former President of the Federation Constitutional Court, Hasan Balić, professor of International Public Law and numerous other people.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5574	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5575	Since I'm entitled to a 20-minute discussion, this was a replica, and I'm stopping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5576	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5577	Correction, replica and correction of the wrong quote. I didn't say that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina was created, I didn't say that, but I said that the current constitutional arrangement was created by the Treaty of Peace, not by the state, but by the arrangement that we have created by the Treaty of Peace. If we call for a historical context and sustainability, we could go back a little further because we have hundreds of documents, thousands that are never anywhere, nothing, no act, any international act that has been annulled, but you know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in those areas. Not to say it's working from... so I don't want to spread the story from Coolin Ban to today. We are talking about something called the constitutional arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina created by the Dayton Peace Agreement. We've... translated as an agreement. It's an international contract. And that's why we need it, here's a colleague of the D.F.'s lawyer, he can say that if I'm right or wrong. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina's continuity is unquestioned. It is only questionable how, in any way, we find a way to come, if we establish through legal expertise that it is indisputable that something that in 42 of any kind of dispute we will get, as well as how to implement it. So I'm not questioning. I'm just saying what, how and in what way and what is and what is an older act. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5578	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5579	So, I'm glad this thing was explained by my colleague Backović and I. When it comes to continuity, it is not created but continues, etc. So, what I want to say below in this second line is not about the presentation of my colleague Backović. So what a number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina insist on all the time, and here in Parliament, is that the same criteria apply to all, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries. What do our neighbors do when they have issues? Croatia and Slovenia in court. Croatia and Montenegro in court. Four days ago, the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Croatia said the issue of Serbia-Croatia's demarcation would be resolved in court. What's so controversial about that? That's what all civilized countries do. How did Ukraine and Romania handle it? In court. It was brought to the Soviet Union that it belonged to Ukraine. After the fall of the Soviet Union, Rumunija came to court, showed arguments and received a lawsuit. Do you want a dozen other examples? So our message is in the 21st century we want all disputes in a civilized, peaceful, democratic way by means of legal means to solve. If you need someone to give that part of the territory to be a court, that's the International Court. I must say that this conversation, this debate about Sutorina, is taking place on two sides. One field is facts and arguments. And there are those who are justifiably talking about this topic definitely won because they pointed to a lot of facts and arguments. However, I must admit, now some are dragging us into another field, which is the field of power and power. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a force of argument, not an argument of force. There was a debate about whether this was legal uncertainty. etc. I'm calling. Here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if anyone wants to say publicly, if we give up Sutorine that it will be a major legal security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will solve any problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina with this. Well, believe me, we won't do either. Not in the upcoming distinctions, not in any other problem. Well, then we get some experts from the international community. Well, because of these experiments, we have a lot of solutions that don't exist anywhere in the world, listening to them and their recommendations. What's best for people in this country, citizens, people, I guess we should know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the principle that we want to put in place today is crucial to what individual experts think on certain issues would not be bad if that principle were to liven up on all other issues. So then here, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci would not last five years, but would call on human rights experts to hear the opinion of what European experiences are and let us implement it. So, what I'm trying to say is that this issue needs arguments and facts to be talked about and only by arguments and facts and not by any means otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5580	Thank you very much, Mr. Bećirović. I'm closing the debate. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5581	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5582	On this agenda point, is it? Okay, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. Although I'm the one who figured it out, but it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5583	I thank the chairman anyway. I just want to, I think it is necessary to inform the House that at the constitutional session of the Constitutional Legal Commission there was a proposal for a point, i.e. a proposal for a conclusion to ask the BiH Presidency to continue the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina. This proposal for a conclusion was unfortunately rejected 4:3. What is unclear is the 111th session of the BiH Council of Ministers since 06 November 2014, I am now reading a conclusion from the Council of Ministers' session -- the BiH Council of Ministers set out a proposal for a state border agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and delivered it to the BiH presidency in a further procedure. So more than four months have passed since then, and it is unclear why the BiH presidency is not acting in accordance with the Constitution and the legislation provided for in the procedures. That doesn't stop this House from pleading. So, if you know the role of this House and the House of Nations, in the end, when it comes to ratification of international agreements, how will you vote for the resolution, you can also vote for ratification. So that's where legal uncertainty comes in. The role of the Presidency is clear. The presidency has not acted on its role for more than four months. And it is particularly unclear why the Constitutional Commission refused to ask the Presidency to continue with the constitution and the legal procedure. A member of the Constitutional Legal Commission said the House of Representatives and the Constitutional Commission could not order the Presidency. It wasn't about ordering the presidency at all. So, Council of Ministers, here I am now reading again, 111th session of November 6, 2014. The BiH Council of Ministers established a proposal for a state border treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and delivered it to the BiH presidency in a further procedure. I think it would be correct if the Commission had simply adopted that conclusion to ask the Presidency, at least to inform us where this Treaty is now. We know that the Council of Ministers sent him to the Bureau more than four months ago, but we don't know where he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5584	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5585	Thank you. So, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I want to confirm what Mr. Arnaut was saying, so that we tried to return this procedure to the Constitutional Legal Commission and this debate where it was actually meant to be, and that's the regular way. Because the Treaty on 44 international border agreements has been coded and has already been with the Presidency for a long time. Even here some of these, when you read the reports from that public debate, where the distinguished representative presented a certain fact, so that it was all quick and so could be discussed. So it wasn't at all quick, it was done for years, it was our bodies, it was a public debate about the work of our bodies that we called. The unanimous commission made a decision on this, the Council of Ministers unanimously made a decision on it, referred to a procedure that was well known to all of us, so to the Presidency. And instead of going the regular way and letting that come before us and having all this debate at that point, so maybe without the necessary style exercises, if we're going to look for new experts now, if we're not, what, if we're going to vote on this, we won't. So, instead of... this goes according to procedure as planned, we're being brought in for the proposal, here's what I'm respecting, so it's right by the Rules of Procedure, now to the situation that we don't know what we're going to do. If we're going to postpone that thing again, wait for a while, make a statement about the resolution that Mr. MP from the SDA suggested. So, I just want to confirm that we asked, one part of us, unfortunately we didn't, here's not accepted on the Constitutional Commission, to finally get a proposal from the Presidency to discuss it here in the House. Unfortunately, we don't, we have here now to try to see who's the bigger patriot or I don't know what way to say it already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5586	Thank you. I'm closing the debate now. Let's go to point seven, Ad. Seven. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11.02.2015, which reads: "According to Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the draft law prohibiting the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina." As responsible for considering the initiative, the College appointed the Constitutional Commission. On 10 March 2015, the Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative. The Commission has adopted the initiative and is proposing to the House its adoption. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5588	I thank the chairman. It's kind of like a proposal to say a few words about this agenda point. First of all, I would like to thank the Constitutional Commission, which has conducted a serious, in my opinion, and a quality debate concerning this initiative. I also thank you for your support by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. I think this is a very important topic. A topic of interest for 45 whole Bosnia and Herzegovina, for all citizens and for all the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that this area is currently partially regulated by the Criminal Law of BiH, partly by the criminal laws of entities and the Brcko District. However, the weather behind us shows that this is clearly ineffective and that in such a way we cannot achieve what the modern needs of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are. In this sense, we have tried to open this topic in a way that does not tell us here the MP proposes the whole law, but that we should really try to invite the Council of Ministers of BiH to have one decent time-limit to prepare such a proposal that then enters the parliamentary procedure. We, of course, have MPs, and it should not be forgotten, and our business and constitutional rights. And we can propose laws. We are not prevented from hiring, from talking to experts, from being much more active than we are, in order to propose certain solutions that would lead to the improvement of certain areas that are primarily in the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, in this case, here we have decided to invite the Council of Ministers to draft such a law and to refer it to parliamentary procedure. I must say that the question of hate speech is not just something related to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers, the Council of Europe defines hate speech as all forms of expression that promote, promote, promote or justify racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or other forms of hate. This issue also deals with the UN Charter, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, a number of other international pacts, contracts, etc. I must say that this issue has been much more efficient and qualityd, above all, by the Western European countries. Given the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think there is any obstacle, and I think there is a great need, for us to apply a certain, above all, experience of Western-European countries in order to reach their standards in this area and make certain steps. So, not to spread too much, I wanted to give only a few reasons and arguments in favour of the fact that this initiative is actually being adopted today by the House of Representatives so that the BiH Council of Ministers can then join a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5589	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Getting to know the House and making a decision on the follow-up procedure relating to the implementation of the House of Representatives' Decision on the conduct of a public hearing, adopted for the debate on the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Air Traffic Control of BiH”, material of the Office for the Review of BiH institutions (making a decision in accordance with Rule 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, when the College of the House did not reach consensus) This item was included in the agenda by the College's decision in an extended composition at yesterday's session. The College of the House of Representatives at the 7th session, as of 10 March 2015, met with the Decision of the House of Representatives on the conduct of a public hearing, adopted on the report on an impact review carried out on the subject: "The Control of Air Traffic of BiH", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. As the members of the College failed to reach 46 consensus on the follow-up procedure of that Decision, it was concluded that the House, in accordance with Rule 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, decided on this. You received a notice from the session of the College and the decision of the House. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I invite you to come here at 2:45, we've exhausted, so, agenda, to vote on the agenda points. So 15 to 3 votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5593	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5594	Okay. So this is the proposal to vote in the package. We have a request to vote individually. I ask the House to declare this request to Mr. Lovrinović. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. 11 for, 16 against, 3 abstentions. This proposal did not receive the required majority. We're going to vote in a package on all these commissions the way you got written by the Expansive College. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 11 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has chosen from the House of Representatives, according to this proposal that you received from the Expansive College, MPs/legislators at the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, the Joint Commission on Oversight, the Joint Commission on Information and Security Agency, the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, the Joint Commission on European Integration, the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs and the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Point 5. – The appointment of members of the delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Representatives: (a) the PSBiH delegation to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union (IPU), (b) the PSBiH delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), (c) the PSBiH delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the PSBiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance (PSNATO), (e) the delegation of the PSBiH to the Central European Initiative (CEI), (f) the PSBiH delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSM), g) the PSBiH delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean (PSUZM), 48 h) the PSBiH delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PS) and the PSEC (PS). We vote on the election of members of the joint committees of the two Houses of Representatives with amendments also set out in the College in the extended composition. You also got them after that break, and now we're voting on every commission in particular. Do we have to vote here in particular or in a package? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. I suggest we vote together on everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5596	You mean delegations?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5597	To delegations, yes. So, any suggestions to vote individually, to vote again? I suggest we vote in the package. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5599	If you'll allow me, on behalf of the SBB Club, I suggest you vote individually on committees or delegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5600	Okay. So, I'm putting on a proposal from the SBB Club to vote individually on these delegations. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Ten for, 18 against, six abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. We vote, so in a package for all these delegations. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, 6 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH elected MPs, i.e. representatives from the House of Representatives to Delegations: 49 (a) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, (b) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, (c) Delegations of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union, (f) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance, (g) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Central European Initiative, (f) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, (g) Delegation of the PSBiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, (h) Delegation of the PSBiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Process of Cooperation in South-Eastern Europe, and the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the PS. In line with that proposal that you also received after this session with those replacements already highlighted here and agreed between individual members of these delegations. We're going to point six. – Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, after a public debate. We are now voting first on the Constitutional Commission proposal to set a new 30-day deadline to carry out further consultations with experts in the area of constitutional and international public law, and then hold a session of the Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 6 against, 8 abstentions, enough entity majority. I find this proposal adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5601	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5602	Then we'll do it again. President of the Club, we can repeat the vote. At the request of the SDA Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. So 20 votes for, 6 against, 9 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We are going to item 7 of the agenda – Considering Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 6th session of the House, held on 11.02.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the draft law on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina." We vote on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 50 28 votes for, 7 against, no abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. It's a later match, isn't it? Later, okay. Thank you very much. We're going to point 8. – Getting to know the House and making a decision on the follow-up procedure relating to the implementation of the Decision of the Representative's House on the conduct of a public hearing, adopted for the debate on the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Air Traffic Control of BiH”, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions (making a decision in accordance with Rule 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, when the College of the House did not reach consensus). In accordance with Article 40. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives say when the Decision on the conduct of the hearing is taken by the House, the College of the House informs the committee designated for the conduct of the hearings, and the House's decision contains, we, as the College, should have appointed a competent Commission for Transport and Communications, so, however, there was no agreement in the College on further proceedings. We do not have a consensus, therefore, within the College and now the House needs to decide that what we have previously decided, to conduct a public hearing, is to be directed to the Commission to implement the decision of the House of Representatives. And I'm putting it to the vote. So, we today...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5603	Can I do business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5604	Business intervention, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5605	Here, I'll take the opportunity to sort of do business, but I'll say the same thing about it. I think that the hearing is conducted in accordance with Article 40, that is, the Rules of Procedure and we should stick to those provisions of the article which speak about the hearing, not to return what was not agreed by the College, because the College is negotiated in this way and according to this proposal by the decisions which are in the jurisdiction of the College. So this is a decision that was made once in the House, and we haven't reached agreement, we're on this situation, according to my business belief, just notifying the House, and we're not making any decision again, because in this case, by the Rules of Procedure, I don't see any foothold in order for the House to determine the competent committee that should be hearing. And in principle, let me just tell you that I was the one who wasn't up for it, because according to the Rules of Procedure, it means when we do the hearings, in a way they're allowed where we don't have court proceedings. And in this case, if we also advocate things, then I will insist that all the discussions that we have here after the review of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are conducted regularly, so that we know that we have that principle, so that we know that we have no judicial proceedings, etc. Here, I just wanted to meet this home that my attitude was like this when it comes to this. Thank you very much. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2015-03-11-0.u5606	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. So, there are no dilemmas here, we are, be careful like this, so by Article 40, we were obliged to give this to the competent commission as a College, to say practically which committee is in charge. We're not the people who have come to terms with this, and the colleague is absolutely right, there's no dilemma. But Article 21 of Article 3 states that the House Kolegijum makes decisions by consensus. If efforts to achieve consensus fail, the decision is made by the House. And there's no one else and it's just like that. I invite you to decide on the following. Therefore, the following is the decision adopted earlier by this House concerning a public hearing to be delivered to the competent Commission for the purpose of the implementation of that decision. We're voting on it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 26 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has decided to forward the earlier decision on the hearing to the Transport and Communication Commission for realisation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we exhausted the vote on the agenda. I'm closing the 8th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned for 25 March 2015. We're not done yet, please. Please listen to me carefully. A very important twinning project funded by the European Commission with 3.5m euros is being implemented in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The project refers to improvements in work, both the Parliamentary Assembly and entity parliaments and Parliament, or the Brcko District of BiH Assembly. The project's halfway through. The people implementing the project in front of the EU once scheduled a meeting to present the project to us. The meeting, unfortunately, was attended by very few MPs and therefore delayed by 17. So, that presentation was postponed for the 17th at 10:00 p.m. as I recall. You received calls from Mr. Bariša Čolak, the chairman of the House of People and me as the chairman of the House of Representatives. I'm asking you to respond to that presentation as much as you do to this session today, if you can do better than that. So, please take care of this, it would be very ugly to embarrass ourselves second time in the Bosnian Herzegovina public. Thank you. Session completed at 3:10 p.m. 52
