ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the first emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MP Mirsad Mešić for health reasons. I agree that the sittings are a total of 37, at this point, MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this session has been convened for a reason of urgency for considering the points on the agenda of today's session. In your invitation to this session today, you have received a proposal of three points of the agenda that are really urgent. I don't think there's any reason to particularly explain the reasons for the urgency, but the College has unanimously made a decision about it. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21098	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 68 and Article 71(1), We propose the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives for the House of Representatives to consider and adopt a new item of the agenda of the 1st emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, as the 1st item of the agenda, which is – a decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. The duty also requires that an argument be manifested. At the 3rd, 5th and 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the SNSD proposed a new item of the agenda, which reads – a decision on the resolution of MP Šefik Džaferović from the post of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's chairman, or member of the College of the House of Representatives. The current parliamentary majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has always refused to make a point on the agenda, even though the evidence that has appeared in the 2 public as well as the request of many NGOs, and I would like to remind the open letter from Republika Srpska's fighting organisations, which has been sent to all Serbian lawmakers from Republika Srpska to support the initiative for the replacement of Šefik Džaferović, the public change in Bosnia and Herzegovina, suggested that it is necessary to conduct a serious political debate in parliament. I remind you that Article 27(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. At the head of... the authorities, in this case the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is the Džaferović of a serious indictment, which was brought in public that he did not prevent, report, or later prosecute war crimes against Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such a person cannot be the chairman of the House of Representatives, as well as a member of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' College. Since the emergency session was scheduled in accordance with Article 68, on 23 February 2015, The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which prescribes that the agenda can be proposed at the beginning of its maintenance, materials divided at the session itself, we believe that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, MPs and MPs in the House of Representatives, they should support the inclusion of this item of the agenda. I call on my colleagues and colleagues to respect our argument and to support our initiative to find this agenda in front of all of us today's session and to carry out the shift of Mr. Šefik Džaferović on the basis of certain political debates and in accordance with some moral principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21099	Thank you very much. Any new proposals for new agenda points? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Prepare to vote on Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives, with six votes in favour of, 32 votes against, two abstentions, did not support Mr. Staša Košarac's proposal. One day, before I say what the agenda is, we will also discuss this kind of behaviour in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but when the time comes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I find that today's 1st emergency session of the House of Representatives has the next Agenda 1. Proposal for a decision on the confirmation and adoption of the Declaration of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01-50-1 351-15, of 29.01.2015, material number: 01.02.03/11-05-1-49/15, of 16.02.2015 and material number: 01.02.03/11-05-1-49/15, of 18.02.2015; 3 2. Decision of the BiH Presidency on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Integrated Support Operation in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Material No: 01,02-03-1447/14, of 26 December 2014, with Amendment to the Decision on the Participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Armed Forces Unit in Operation Resolutely Support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Material No: 01,02-03-1447-1/14, of 26.01.2015; 3. The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Group in Operation Resolute Support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material number: 01,02-03-1447/14, of 26.12.2014. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. Proposal for a decision to confirm and adopt the Declaration of the BiH Presidency, issue 01-50-1351-15, of 29/01/2015, material number: 01,02,03/11-05-1-49/15, of 1602/2015 and material number: 01,02,03/11-05-1-49/15, of 18.02.2015. On 16 February 2015, the BiH presidency submitted the statement to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and again on 18 February, the statement was delivered but this time with a preamble, and the number and date at the end. The BiH presidency established and adopted the statement on 29 January 2015. The statement was submitted on February 04th 2015 for the signing of political party leaders represented in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Political party leaders signed a statement and signed a copy to the BiH presidency, and the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mladen Ivanić, requested a joint session of both homes from 16 February 2015 to be convened and adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The chairman, Mr Ivanić, informed on the occasion that on behalf of the BiH presidency, he had sent an official invitation to the EU High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy and Vice-Presidents of the European Commission, her Excellency Federici Mogherina, to visit Bosnia and Herzegovina on 23 February 2015, and attended and addressed the joint session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. This was the occasion of calling for an emergency session of the House of People's House of Representatives and emergency sessions, as well as joint sessions of both houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and all in order to speed up the implementation of our priority obligations. You have received both statements from both your colleagues and colleagues since 16 February and 18 February 2015, so this is actually one statement that was completed on 18 February, as well as a proposal for a decision to confirm and adopt the BiH Presidency statement to be adopted, which was prepared by the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Saša Magazinović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21101	Thank you, Chairman. A large number of MPs have noticed that we have a technical problem, a business problem, as well as the last time, that members of the Bureau who are formally proposing... materials are not present and I want to say but not make a business remark, with hope that they will appear in the time we spend on the debate, and given the other obligations in mind during the day and... But in any case, I think four of us should deal with this issue, maybe one of you from the College should have a conversation, when it comes to having someone who's a proposing. As far as the material itself is concerned, I think it deserves to be, although we are limited in time, commented in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Although for a number of people it remains a controversial way of getting this document,... whether political leaders should be involved or not, I am still satisfied that he is getting his final verification in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I just want to comment on a few things because we're all less familiar with both the content and the order of steps that follow after this. I would particularly like to emphasise one part of the preamble of this statement that speaks about it, and we will vote on it today and I assume unanimously, that we as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are attached to the principles, values and objectives on which the EU is based. This sentence in the preamble is particularly important to me, and it has even the importance of the remaining part of the text and does not only apply to this Declaration, but otherwise, the value of this sentence in the preamble, which we will adopt, should be aware of, and when other topics come to the agenda of the BiH Parliament, other topics that are also in line with European principles and values appear. I will be free to remind us all that by adopting this Declaration we have adopted this preamble sentence as well. As far as the content of the document is concerned, of course I don't want to, and of course we don't have time to intervene on the text, absolutely certain that, if the process of making the document had gone the other way, if the Parliamentary Assembly had been more involved, perhaps a sentence would have been added down, although I, I, right away, support this completely. What is the content itself, of economic and social measures, is the obligation for all authorities to act in the direction of institutional,... their institutional functionality and efficiency in order to go as a sovereign state towards the EU, measures to build a functional market economy, strengthen the rule of law, etc., etc., I have added this document only beyond this point d) which says – measures to speed up the reconciliation process, I would add an item – measures to restore trust between politicians, because since 2006, when the aprilski package fell in this Parliamentary Assembly, this trust has been lost. It does not exist today and we know that it is one of the preconditions that what is at the end of this process and these are changes to the Constitution are effectively completed. I'm glad the opposition is involved in this process. I believe that no one has the right to be the exclusive owner of the process of European integration in BiH, I believe that this should be our joint job and the place where interests and positions and opposition meet. We all know that this is the first step, that after this first step that should be, and it is, the easiest, follow much more serious activities where we will actually see whose signature is on this document of reform and who is actually seriously committed to working on the reforms that are put before us. I can't help but remember the events of two years ago when we signed in a similar way but did not adopt a statement in Parliament, and it was related to NATO's path, when NATO's Secretary-General was here in this room, in a similar way, held meetings with him, gave positive statements and he also made positive statements, and unfortunately nothing happened, or what was signed was not respected. I sincerely hope that in this case it will not happen, that what the Presidency has proposed, the leaders of political parties have adopted, and here we will confirm in Parliament, will be a kind of obligation for us all to meet more effectively than similar things have been fulfilled so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21102	Thank you very much. 5 I would ask you if we can discuss briefly, we are really limited in time. I know what I'm saying is awkward, I don't want to deny your rights, but this is so much debated in the public that I have the right to ask you to behave like this. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21103	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I can see on the display and there's not much interest in a discussion today, however, we are using our business right to express our opinion. I agree with my colleague Magazinović, the BiH presidency is proposing this statement both in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and without the Rules of Procedure it was expected that at least one of the members of the Bureau would appear here today at a meeting of the House of Representatives. We are not going to insist on doing business today, but it is clear that this is not exactly the best message here at the House of Representatives, especially that we had a similar situation at the last session and reacted the way we reacted. As far as this statement is concerned, it is not disputed that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is difficult, difficult and economically difficult, that the political situation is not better either. Looking at what was happening in post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is clear that it is not a difficult situation in 2015 alone, this finding could have been in 2010, both 2006 and 2002 and that we are not going backwards. However, I think it is the obligation of all MPs and other representatives of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to support and even the slightest effort and attempt to move Bosnia and Herzegovina forward. In that sense, this statement certainly represents a certain shift forward and it is not disputed, at least here for the SDP MPs, that we will ultimately support it. Is this enough? My answer is – no, not nearly enough versus the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it should be tried, responsibly taking advantage of the EU's opportunity to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a new chance for both the citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country as a whole. I think that this Declaration should particularly welcome the fact that we are seeking to establish institutional functionality and efficiency, to resolve this issue of the coordination mechanism, to really launch serious reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the preamble to this statement, the fourth one stands among other things to confirm that EU membership is a strategic goal for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course that's true, but I have one question to ask today. The BiH presidency unanimously adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategic goals, both the EU and NATO pact. I would also like to see this Declaration set out on Euro-Atlantic integration, so the NATO Pact. Is it possible to agree between the new parliamentary majority that is a second question, but as an opposition, we have the right to ask it, especially as until a year ago when other documents appeared here, people, is it, which today was the government and then the opposition were fiercely criticised by the then government whenever they eventually left out the word NATO pact and Euro-Atlantic commitment. So just because we are today confirming only one of the strategic foreign policy objectives doesn't mean that it doesn't exist and that it's extremely important, I would say indivisible with this first one, and this strategic foreign policy goal relating to the NATO Pact. So, we'll support this statement, but personally to say, that's my opinion now, I don't expect too much from this Izajva. This is not the first statement of this type to be adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but when concreteisation occurs and certain details are resolved then we know how it ends. However, there should be a chance and Bosnia and Herzegovina should try to move forward. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21104	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Jasmin Emrić, and after that, we'll conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21105	Mr. Chairman, deputy. I would briefly like to take the opportunity to say that we fully support the text of the proposed statement. It is an expression of all political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to speed Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards candidate status. What we expect is a plan and a programme of action with a dynamic plan of activity to implement the obligations of the Declaration. We will follow the process of carrying out our commitments and hope that this will not only remain a statement but also essentially this Declaration will have its implementation in this distinguished House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-02-23-1.u21106	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the second item of the agenda, and that's it, Ad. 2. The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the Operation Resolute Support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material number: 01,02-03-1447/14, of 26 December 2014, with the Amendment to the Decision on the Participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Armed Forces Force in the Operation Decision in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material number: 01,02-03-1447-1/14, of 26.01.2015. On 26 December 2014, the BiH presidency submitted a Decision on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces In Operation Resolutely in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and an amendment to that Decision was submitted on 26 January 2015. The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Defence and Security as responsible for the consideration. As you know, the Joint Commission has not yet been established, which is why we do not have the Commission's opinion on decisions, and the reason for the agenda is the following. Namely, members of 6. The law on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad provides for the following. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is required to consider the presidency's decisions on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations within 60 days of the decision-making day. If the BiH Parliamentary Assembly fails to confirm the presidency's decision within the deadline, the decision will be considered rejected and all activities will be suspended at its implementation. Therefore, given that the decisions were delivered on 26 December 2014, the deadline of 60 days expires on 24 February 2015 and this was the reason for their inclusion in the agenda of today's 7th session. Although we do not have the Commission's opinion, it is not a business obstacle for us to discuss this. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Group in Operation Resolute Support in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material number: 01,02-03-1447/14, of 26.12.2014.
