ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4647	Please take your seats, it's time to go with the House of Representatives session. I'd like the services to call the agents in front of the O.R. to enter the O.R. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 3rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. Representatives of the BiH Export Credit Agency, whose report on the work on the agenda of today's session, were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs/representers and guests. There are 40 MPs present at today's session, and according to the records I have, no one has justified the absence, which means we can expect to work in full, very full assembly or composition today. I find that today's session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, as indicated in your call for a session, and in accordance with Article 171. At the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that on 25 December 2014 and 08 January 2015 you have been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. On 08 January 2015, the memo was also sent to the Chair of the Council of Ministers, which sets out the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form, those are members 170 to 173. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Šefik of Staff Džaferović – for the Minister of Justice of BiH; Nermina Kapetanović – for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH; Mladen Bosić – for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers; Aleksandra Pandurević – for the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; Dušanka Majkić – for the Minister of Foreign Affairs; Salko Sokolović – for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and Ministers of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; Saša Magazinović – for the Minister of Justice and Minister of BiH and Šemsudin Mehmedović – for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. 2 These announcements are in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, in accordance with Article 171(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House. I thank BHRT for meeting our request and, as part of his programme scheme, respecting the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We will continue the talks with them so that this practice, which is... in relation to the earlier calls of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, will be practiced in the best possible way in this session. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I would like to invite the Secretary of the House of Representatives to inform you of some details relating to the duration of the discussion and the manner in which this agenda is concerned, i.e. this preliminary agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. In line with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure, questions are asked as follows. The MP may ask one parliamentary question for two minutes. A member of the BiH Council's response is also given immediately to a parliamentary issue in two minutes. If the MP is unsatisfactory or satisfied with the answer, he shall state his reasons for up to one minute. If, however, the Member of Parliament is dissatisfied with the reply, it may request that the reply be delivered to him in writing within 15 days. I remind you all that the procedure for asking questions has been regulated by our new Rules of Procedure in Articles 171 to 173. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4649	Thank you, Secretary. I'd like to ask the First Deputy Chairman to give me his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4650	Respectful, well-respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers. At the beginning of this session and of my address, I warmly welcome you all and want successful work, as these sessions mean, and so do all the future ones. Here, the word has been answered and the parliamentary question has been raised by the chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4651	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the BiH Council of Ministers. My question was addressed to the BiH Minister of Justice and that reads – What has the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Council of Ministers on the implementation of Constitutional Court Decision No: U:1/11, since 13/07, which refers to the subject of state property? Has the BiH Ministry of Justice drawn up a plan to implement the Constitutional Court Decision No.: At:1/11, since 13.07.2012 and 3 if not? And will everything... and when, and will all the laws that would mean the implementation of this Decision intend to refer to parliamentary procedure? Just to remind you, the Constitutional Court's decision knows two types of state property, which reflects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its statehood. These are, therefore, good in general use and good in particular interest, and these are special things, special moving and immovable things as other types of property. We will need a set of laws to implement this decision and I want this process launched in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4652	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. The word has, for its answer, Justice Minister BiH, Mr Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4653	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed co-chairmen, respected MPs and MPs. Here, I will try to fit in at this time, although I answered the same question, it seems to me, a very esteemed colleague, or representative Belkić. At its 4th session, held on 21 March 2012, the BiH Council of Ministers concluded that the agreed principles of the meeting of the six political parties were SNSD, SDS, SDP, SDA, HDZ and HDZ 1990, which was reached in Banja Luka on 9 March 2012, which agreed on the principles of distribution of military and other state assets. Therefore, the Council was also guided by these principles, not a specific plan, so the BiH Council of Ministers, held on 18 February 2013, formed a working group to address the issue of state and military property in which ministers, colleagues, so, Nović, counterpart Hadžić and I were appointed. Article 3 of that Decision set out the task of the working group in a way that, in accordance with the principles laid down earlier, the distribution of state and military assets to the Council of Ministers, proposes a way to address the issue of military and state property. The working group held a total of six, so official meetings, were more consultations than those meetings, where a detailed issue and dilemmas related to the problem of state and military property were discussed. As a result of that working group, taking into account the Constitutional Court's decision number: U:1/11, it agreed the views, and at its 6th session, held on 23.10, and in accordance with its task to the Council of Ministers, it proposed, namely, to consider and adopt the draft law on state property. So then there was not a single dilemma between us, here are the three of us that worked on this assignment. After that, on several occasions, the Council of Ministers' agenda plans to find these issues, namely to discuss the agreed draft of the law, however it has not been discussed, specifically counterpart Hadžić has repeatedly asked for it to be delayed. Since, in the meantime, a new Bill on State Property has been submitted by counterpart Hadžić, who has given way to certain parts of the text, which has been fully agreed. Hence, there was no longer any agreement among the members of the working congregation. And for this reason, at the 89th session, held on April 04, 2014, the Council of Ministers discussed information on the results of the working group and was therefore withdrawn from further proceedings in connection with the draft law on the same day. After that, the Council of Ministers had no, therefore, issue on the agenda. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4654	Thank you very much, Minister Čolak. Does Mr. Šefik Džaferović have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4655	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I know of these facts that you have raised in answer to our question. I ask you, therefore, this is a very serious matter, to approach this problem in a completely different way as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. That's why I got up and asked this question. The Constitutional Court's decision requires the formation of working groups, requires that all the intelligence that exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore these areas and these topics, should be taken into account, and the Constitutional Court's decision cannot be implemented in the manner in which it was done in this procedure that you spoke of. This involves a set of laws that will regulate, I repeat, a regime for the management of goods in general, good of particular interest and these individual things of succession or which are mobile and immovable things and are owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the decision implies that other levels of government can function as well as, of course, the state level, because property is actually the basis for the functioning of these levels. And in that context, I've asked this question and I'm asking you to take care of this next session and do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4656	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. The word is from counterpart Nermina Kapetanović and from BiH to the minister of human rights and refugees. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4657	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I ask the Minister, the current minister, or members of the ministry – When will the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees submit its mandatory regular report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina and propose concrete legislative and other measures in this regard? I note that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed long ago in 2009, that that same year, Article 8 of the Law in question specified that all ministries concerned with the occurrence of discrimination must submit their regular report. And we know that, say, the Ombudsman institution does it regularly, but the Human Rights Department doesn't. I've asked that question several times in the last term. I note that Bosnia and Herzegovina is very common in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so our delegates have been very often brought into an awkward situation because of phenomena, increasingly common issues about the increasingly frequent occurrences of discrimination and violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I ask the competent ministry -- why didn't they deliver the report last year, when they intend to, since they said in July last year that they intend to present the same report to representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the same month. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4658	Thank you very much, colleague Kapetanović. The Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr. Damir Ljubić, should be in the O.R. at any moment and asked that the last one answer this question. That's what they told me now, so please appreciate this. You'll get, therefore, the answer to your question I hope, that's the notice I have. We're moving on. Mr. Mladen Bosić has a question for the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4659	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads – What about the 892m-euro funds that Bosnia and Herzegovina was supposed to receive for the recovery of the damage from the May floods of 2014? The funds were promised at a donor conference held in Brussels in July 2014. How many of the BiH Council of Ministers of Budgets has so far approved funds for the recovery of damages from the May floods and are the appropriations operational? How much funds have been withdrawn so far and for what purposes have they been spent?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4660	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Representatives in this House, you have a double capacity until the election of the new Council of Ministers, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4661	Chairman, members of the College, fellow MPs. I'll answer very briefly. So, the Council of Ministers has initiated amendments to the Budgets Act and these amendments to the Budget Law have passed the parliamentary procedure, and this has allowed us to secure 7 million marks from the Single Account of the Treasury on the basis of amendments to the Law... in budgetary positions. Three million are secured by the isolation and voluntary enrolment of state-owned institutions' employees. The 10 million funds were allocated to the Council of Ministers, 49% of the Federation of BiH, 49% of Republika Srpska, 2% of the Brcko District. The finance ministry and the vault immediately after the decision was made, carried out transfers to their accounts. An integral part of this decision was also an obligation for those to whom the funds were sent to inform the Council of Ministers about the spending of funds by purpose and amounts. ...we asked for it and until today we have not received this requested report. As regards the other funds granted, or promised at the donor conference, most donors opted for direct co-operation with local communities and for direct implementation. And I must say that, despite the request of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, we have not received any concrete information. It is also about the World Bank's credit assets, the rerouting of the European Commission's funds. The absolute priority at all Council of Ministers meetings and by the Ministry of Finance was simply a hasty agenda but you know that these procedures simply take place, including the procedure relating to parliamentary verification of the same. Here, I hope I gave the requested question a satisfactory answer. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4662	Thank you very much. Mr. Bosić, do you have a need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4663	I asked this question because in public there's a misunderstanding of what's going on in the first place with flood recovery, there's no information at all. And this response that we received from the Council of Ministers strengthens me in the belief that there is chaos, that even the means are not known at all and in what way are given to Bosnia and Herzegovina, who spent them, what is with municipalities, what is by entities. And I have to say that the next Council of Ministers would have to consider this situation, because 100,000 people were moved out of their homes, 40,000 people in floods were placed in collective centres. It's a disaster of enormous proportions, and we're going to have a situation to speculate again about the malfeasances of the use of funds that should be donated to this disaster. I must say that it is truly shockingly small and the assistance that the Council of Ministers of Budget BiH has directed towards the victims is less than 1%, not counting the solidarity of those employed in the joint institutions. All together, it tells us that people who express their disdain about the damages situation, in both entities, have the right and that the authorities at all levels have to reconsider how to really repair the damage and help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4664	Thank you very much, Mr. Bosić. Before we go any further, so I'd like to ask you, we have one hour for these direct TV broadcast questions because of the BHRT programming scheme, we have six or seven more of these questions, and I think if we stick to time, so, two plus two plus one minute, we can, therefore, get everything. Please, let's take care of this. The word has Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević a question for the foreign trade and economic relations minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4665	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers. Here, we know for a year and a half since Croatia's entry into the EU, in which Bosnia and Herzegovina exported about 22m euros of milk annually. Unfortunately, however, our producers still cannot export milk to EU countries. We know that last year in February, it seems to me, was the Dublin Mission, that we got a negative opinion. Since the ministry you're handling is what, let's say in some way, paves the way for export and perhaps the main carrier of these activities I would ask you to inform us – why last year has not come to some obvious shifts? When do we expect the Dublin mission again? What are these obstacles we should be removing in the first place, and is there any chance we could do it soon, since we saw that we had recently had a protest of the milkman? Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4666	Thank you very much. Mr. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministers of BiH, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4667	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for asking. In the shortest, I will try to fit in, whether, in this 2 minutes, you are right, so one of the key issues that we are dealing with in this past period since the FVO mission arrived in February last year is how to fit on one side EU requirements when it comes to so-called. a vertical chain of command in terms of, meaning, adequate and secure security assurances... on the one hand, means that it is in compliance with European standards, and on the other hand, means that the internal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course in the jurisdiction of all levels of government and at the end of all institutions at all these levels of government. You are also right that we received a negative assessment from the FVO mission and that most of that negative comment... opinions are precisely about that model that was defined in 2013 signed by the three ministers then, the then foreign trade minister and the two entity ministers of agriculture. In this past period, we're trying to define an appropriate model, I say, that will satisfy both conditions and in that sense we've actually succeeded. We received conditionally said green light to the FVO mission, or the European Commission, when it comes to the new model. We have also made significant progress in the field of certification. We have also stepped up certain efforts in terms of strengthening, above all, the quality of milk in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. We have sent certain opinions and comments that we have collected from all the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the opinion of the FVO mission. We're heading to Dublin and we're now expecting, so their feedback in terms of, meaning, approval of this Action Plan. We will join the implementation of this Action Plan, and we expect, that during 2015 we will also witness the new arrival of the FVO mission in order to provide final green light for exports of milk and milk products from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4668	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Pandurević, do you have a need to, please, have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4669	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I'm really unhappy with this answer and that he's just fortifying me in the belief that the Ministry didn't do what it was supposed to do. The mission was due in September and was not because of the lack of activity. The ministry, we know that we got a negative light because of three farms -- two from Republika Srpska, one from the Federation, the Ministry was supposed to influence entity ministries to remove these three farms from the list so that other producers who meet, whose farms meet European standards, do not suffer. The mission will come when we do part of our duties and when the Ministry informs them that we have done part of our duties. Obviously, there's a serious brake somewhere, not to meet our obligations, that the Ministry didn't do what it was supposed to do. Who's suffering? Milk producers who have already destroyed both floods and all and in the far line suffer from the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is damaged for the milk exports. And I repeat only in Croatia we exported 22m euros annually. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4670	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs Dušanka Majkić, a question for BiH Foreign Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4671	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the Foreign Ministry, and it is related to the export of weapons. So, the foreign ministry recently issued three approvals related to the Igman factory's demands from Konjic on ammunition exports to the Ukraine MUP worth nearly 4.5m euros. So, it was the last agreement, and previously the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security issued their consent and thus obtained conditions for issuing a licence. My question to the Minister is: Why did the Foreign Ministry not respect the provisions of the Law on the Control of Foreign Trade Transport of Goods and Services of particular importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since it is a country of armed conflict, i.e. by issuing these consents, the EU rule adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2010 which refers to the ban on arms exports to all countries where conflict or increased tension exists? I'd like you to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4672	Thank you very much. The word has been made by the foreign minister of BiH, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4673	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I was asked in writing, and it really is about the agreement of the MIP to export ammunition, so I thought that you were looking for something else entirely, that is, to see how and how much the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the whole process took part and issued a permit, or consent, excuse me, for that kind of goods. In the last year, for your information, we have a huge growth in dedicated production, 237 consent has been issued, and otherwise mostly these consents apply to goods and contracts that are heavy somewhere around... a million marks on average. To remind you that the transport of weapons of equipment is regulated by the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act of goods and services for strategic importance and the authority responsible for these permits is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. However, the foreign trade ministry, before issuing a licence, in accordance with the law, is asking for appropriate consent from the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Defence, the Intelligence Service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You set it up because I wasn't getting ready for it, but given the circumstances, I know what's going on with these 237 consents, and so is what you're talking about. Namely, there are four consents, not three, three of Igman and one of the UNIS Groups and their total amount is, don't take my word for it, but it amounts to around 4.580,000 euros, which is a job that is very large for the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy. In this regard, I would like to tell you that last year alone did not give consent, it was about Kosovo, in 9 cases, and in one country of the Middle East, which was covered by political controversy. At one point, according to the principles that were in force in the EU, exports were suspended, but after that the embargo was removed because it had been removed by the EU, and we had an obligation to complete some of the contracts, although the embargo was still in force because, by international law, we were obliged to complete the processes and ensure that the contracts were met, because otherwise they would have suffered damages which are of a million nature and which we could not respond to. We have been in a delicate situation here for the simple reason why, you have been declared that we do not follow the EU when it comes to sanctions against Russia, although under the Stabilisation and Association Treaty we should have done such a thing. Unfortunately, we have come here in a position that we should impose sanctions on Ukraine for which the EU has no sanctions, so now we should do double, if, on condition, external political damage. We're following.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4674	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4675	Nowhere. We don't follow her when it comes to Russia, and then we don't follow them when it comes to Ukraine. And otherwise, it is not your assumption that the EU or anyone else is not exporting weapons to Ukraine and Russia. In fact, everyone's still doing it, which is what it's all about, right now, about double standards. Some EU countries export to Russia weapons that are literally measured by billions. Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a specific case, the foreign ministry could not agree which would open the space for companies to sue us for damages of 5m euros.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4676	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4677	By the way, and to finish Mr. Chairman, the issue can be addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because they are the ones who issue a final permit, and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations as well as any other, including respected representatives, can ask the question to the Presidency and the Presidency can make a different decision, but the foreign ministry had no right to do anything other than this in this sequence. And finally let me show you, here's the consent one, here's the look, Mr. Chairman, I'll share it with you, it's important to see it. This is about consent in the domain of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So here is the signature under the ban and sanctions of the Security Council signed by the head of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4678	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4679	Based on the ban on EU sanctions, Mr. Chairman, I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4680	It is important, but time. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4681	So, I'm exact, I want you to know that there are seven people here from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are in charge of international law and what is the obligation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The foreign minister had no opportunity to do anything but agree with what the state's most important officials in the rankings of the Ministers and Ambassadors and Secretaries had given him. By the way, if you're interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4682	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4683	The composition of these people corresponds to the BiH Constitution, their ethnic composition is in line with the latest census.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4684	Thank you, Minister Lagumdžija. I would ask you indeed, this has been more than twice the time, when the first warning is to try not to come into some awkward situation. I beg you, we can all really respect it, this is a good practice that the public has a chance to hear what we ask and how it's answered and it's possible to say everything in two minutes, believe me. Mrs. Majkić, please have a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4685	So, no answer at all. I asked him why he didn't respect the law, not the amount of weapons and why. So, we have violated the law and Bosnia and Herzegovina will soon be the country of affairs again because of exports where no one can. That the Ministry wanted to deal with it could have consulted Switzerland and Germany. Why did they refuse to deliver weapons to Ukraine, and Bosnia and Herzegovina allows themselves the right to do so. So this is irresponsible. I ask that the question I asked be delivered to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4686	Okay, thank you. The MP has the right to conclude his parliamentary question in this way, so he has the right to request an answer in writing and I ask that this be respected within 15 days, as the Rules of Procedure provides. The word has it, now we're actually going to give the word to the refugee and human rights minister who came here in the O.R., so I saw him, Mr. Damir Ljubić, to answer Mrs. Kapetanović's question, so let's move on. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4687	Thank you very much. Greetings to the presidency, to all elected MPs. Thank you very much, Mrs. Kapetanović, for asking. I'll be brief. So, in accordance with the legal provisions of the Council of Ministers' task, the Resoring Ministry was to draw up this report. In the procedural drafting of this report, we are obliged to obtain all opinions from competent institutions, primarily entity-levels. We have launched this procedure, we are waiting for the entity level to be shown and that report will then be discussed at the Council of Ministers and sent to parliamentary procedure. Until then, we have not yet received and collected the 11 reports with our efforts to satisfy the procedure, satisfy the procedure itself, and offer this report for consideration. We expect and make efforts to make it soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4688	Thank you very much. Kapetanović you need to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4689	I do. I thank Mr. Secretary. Of course, I am expressing my dissatisfaction with the fact that the law in question on the prohibition of discrimination was passed long ago in 2009 and that it is then prescribed that within 90 days of the date of publication of the Law, a way of collecting data on the occurrences of discrimination must be formulated. From 2009 to 2014 it has been a very, very long time and there is no excuse, neither for entity ministries nor for all those who had to submit data on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are increasingly common in segments of education, social and health care. There is no excuse for such a thing, that such a register has not yet been established, that the resolution ministry has no opportunity to inform this Parliamentary Assembly of the occurrence of discrimination that is increasingly common and of the harsh violation of human rights of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4690	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kapetanović. The word is Mr. Salko Sokolović, the issue is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. They're only gonna answer one of them's questions, so let's make a deal with who. Here you go, Mr. Sokolovich.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the blockade of border crossings and the inability to export food products, something similar but perhaps a little more detailed question asked by Mrs Pandurević. In view of this, it means that the latest developments and blockades of border crossings by the Association of Farmers have been justified, and I believe that the product of the nezade and negligentness of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Office for Veterinary Affairs, acting within the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I ask this question. I would like to remind you that we have reached the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly at the 53rd session, which are in some way in line with the conclusions of the Council of Ministers with 25, 51 and 58 sessions, and that there is an urgent need to address issues in the area of food and veterinary safety which have a negative impact on the exports of food from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the market of neighbouring Croatia and the EU. How did the Council of Ministers in its 25th session, held on 29.10.2012, in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to form an Interresor Working Group and prepare new laws on food, veterinary and agriculture, my question is, or is it a set of issues related to the same subject, which is – Has the Interresor Working Group worked out drafts of new laws on food, veterinary and agriculture? Did these texts of the law clearly determine the central competent authority for the issue of veterinary and food safety? If they are done when the Council of Ministers will consider them, that is, when they will be referred to the parliamentary procedure that the Parliamentary Assembly and the House of Representatives determine them because they are very important for further activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4692	Thank you. Who will answer, Minister, as agreed? Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4693	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. It is, therefore, essentially three legal acts, with one correction, it is not about the new Veterinary Act, but about the Law on Amendments and Veterinary Supplements to BiH, which is at the end and about this issue asked by Mrs Pandurević, in essence, more so. The law is near the end, and it will be in front of BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs in a relatively short period of time. The reason why he has not been released into the procedure so far is because the European Commission's green light, or FVO's, was waiting for this chain of command that I mentioned during the first response. As regards the Food Act, it originally started with amendments and additions to that legal act, however, as the Interresor Working Group identified that the necessary changes, meaning the changes that need to be implemented, were then approached by the drafting of the new law. A large part of the issue has essentially been resolved, the issue remains only to more precisely define the relationship between, on the one hand, the Food Safety Agency and on the other hand, the BiH Veterinary Office and some other institutions. In terms, it also means that it has tried... certain European standards, because it is foreseen according to European standards that also bodies dealing with food safety are mainly concerned with so-called. Risk assessment and all other questions of normative and other character are mainly, therefore, incorporated into the Ministry itself. As for the Rural Development Act, it is in some ways least problematic in the sense that it requires only certain small technical changes in terms of its adaptation to new solutions under the Food Act. So we expect that in the next period, in a relatively short period of time these three legal acts will indeed be in front of the MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4694	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Sokolović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, given that the Interresor Working Group completed the story in October 2013 and needed to deliver its work to the Council of Ministers in fact, and since this activity was driven in 2012, knowing that Croatia would join the EU and as the first neighbour, we will have to have the regulated legislative system immediately. Here, we got what we got today, here's a roadblock. At all, I am not convinced by this answer that the superior Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Affairs 13 relations was expedient, that it worked in a way to solve this problem. I'm convinced there were some obstructions, and that's what I wanted to hear from the minister. Obviously, I didn't get it, and I'd like to put in writing a little bit more detail on all of that one gene from the day of my commitment to this day so that I can react in a different way for the next session when it comes to this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4696	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Mr. Saša Magazinović, for BiH's security minister and BiH's minister of justice. One of them will answer, so let them make a deal. Or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, perhaps in situations like this. Mr. Magazinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4697	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you, members of Parliament, Council of Ministers. First of all, I would like to say that, as the chairman of the Commission for the Amendment of Rules of Procedure in the past, I am extremely pleased that this practice and this change have been brought to life and that we have taken one step towards both the public and the media in carrying out various initiatives. My particular initiative, i.e. the question, is this. For a long period of time and especially recently, media have been reporting about the expansion of various forms of extremism on the Internet, especially when commenting on news on internet portals and on social networks where calls for murders, calls for interethnic conflicts, killing members of minority groups, national intolerance and other forms of violence and hatred can be seen. Interestingly, especially when it comes to social networks, most people do so by not hiding their personal identity and even by offering more information about themselves. On the other hand, we have been informed of the activities carried out by the judicial police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina on this matter and concrete results, if any, for the control of such phenomena, as well as preventive action in relation to possible tragic consequences. The public has also not been informed of the capacity of police structures to oppose the tyranny of extremes and the intimidation of the public who is increasingly present as well as the ways for citizens to help themselves first, knowing that their efforts and civic responsibility will have a concrete result. I believe that, instead of the police and the prosecution dealing with the repression of the media, which illustrates the recent case of a search of the Klix.ba newsroom, which I hope today we will have opportunities to talk more widely about in the course of the session, we should focus our energy maximum on the preventive action against extremists who, in front of their eyes and eyes, openly call for violence and hatred and create an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. Specific questions for the Ministry of Justice – Is the existing legislation sufficient for concrete activities in the direction of processing and punishing such phenomena? Are there any activities that are being carried out towards making new laws, improving existing ones and the like?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4698	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4699	And very short for the Ministry of Security – What activities and how intensive are they implemented in monitoring and processing and preventing these phenomena? What are concrete results and in which 14 ways citizens can help institutions to deal with this problem before inaction confirms the present the thesis that everything is allowed on the Internet and before, God Bog, something happens that these people, under their full name and last name, announce or call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4700	Okay. So one question can be asked, according to the Rules of Procedure. Who's going to give the answer? The Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4701	Thank you, Mr. President. I can certainly give a precise answer to this first question and the second one should definitely request data. The fact is that none of the four criminal laws that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina has prescribed a crime committed out of hate on the Internet, but that does not mean that these crimes are impunity, i.e. there is any obstacle that these crimes committed by hate are not punishable under any of the incriminations provided for in all four criminal laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, for the sake of the Penal Code of BiH, this is prescribed in Article 145a) – this is called challenging national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience. So there's no precise way. So, in any way when such an act is committed, it is punishable and an appropriate punishment has been threatened. Of course, what you are about, which the esteemed representative asked you to consider. But here, according to both constitutional jurisdiction and that matter, therefore, regulate these crimes that were committed via the Internet. It has been tried, so, and on a certain level, I know for sure, so we at the Ministry have been trying some things, but you know what's already going on with this criminal law that's in the process. I believe that in the next period this issue will have to be given more serious attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4702	Thank you very much. Mr. Magazinović, do you need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4703	Very short. I am aware that this is a very complex problem and I will request a written answer from both ministers and deliver this issue in writing. I repeat once again that it is better to act preventively and organize ourselves before an event occurs with severe consequences, and then we will all deal with the team.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4704	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, a question for the Council of Ministers' chairman. Here you go, Mr. Mehmedović. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4705	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the signing of the CEFTA Treaty and other bilateral agreements with certain countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is fully open. So bh. the economy is actually exposed to terrible competition, both by the EU and by other countries. My question actually concerns the chairman of the Council of Ministers – What is the plan of the Council of Ministers, together with three institutions which seem to me to be competent, which is the Central Bank and the two entity banking agencies, what are these three institutions planning to do to protect domestic economic operators from the planned destruction of the same ones by banks that, or do not lend loans to production or already existing problems to the extent that it is obvious that only the objective is to take over mortgages? This way you shut down the weak bh anyway. economy. Why am I saying this? Because, in fact, banks are being fully-interested and given the very high interest rates in Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to interest rates in the EU, bh. the economy has no chance in such a unfair competition. On the other hand, we have passed a State Aid Act prohibiting any incentive... That's how I'd do it. The economy doesn't have a fair match with, here's the EU. For this reason, I expect the chairman of the Council of Ministers or some competent minister to explain to me what he will do together with these three institutions that in fact this policy of banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina is changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4706	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman and MP, Mr. Bevanda, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4707	Say hello to everyone again. The Central Bank's work is supervised by the BiH Presidency and by entities-entity governments and parliament banking agencies. You know well that the attempt to supervisory of banking ended in the Federation, past parliamentary procedure, but failed in Republika Srpska, so the agencies and their work and business are under the supervision of entity governments and parliaments. I can't answer this question today, but yesterday immediately after receiving questions from the respected representative Mehmedović, I asked all these three institutions for information – if they are planning and planning to do what they plan to do about the protection of domestic economic operators. As soon as they've received their answers and their obviouss, I'll forward the same to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4708	Thank you very much. Therefore, in this situation, the Rules of Procedure in Article 173(1) states that if there is no answer at the first next session that is first in the month, that is, the first one in February of the month. The answer in oral form is that the question is asked. It's a procedure. 16 Mr. Mehmedović, do you need to comment after this? Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4709	Well, look, obviously, we're going to have to look for answers from these three institutions, but the Council of Ministers has certain powers when it comes to state aid. Why am I saying this? If the interest rate for economic operators is, for example, in the EU, up to 0.8%, and up to about 10% in our banks. Here, by calculating the corrupt activities of certain banks, it certainly exceeds this interest rate. On the other hand, we are forbidden any incentive, giving, meaning, encouraging exports. Is the Council of Ministers planning any measures and activities that would provide at least equal match bh. the economy compared to, here is competition from the EU and other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4710	Thank you very much, Mr. Mehmedović. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we have exhausted this preliminary agenda regarding oral and oral questions. I thank all those who have asked the question, thank the Council of Ministers who have today fully respected what the MPs have asked for, so everyone here is present. This is a matter that is very serious and I see that it has been taken very seriously and I ask that it continue throughout the term of office. I think we have made progress and a step in the work of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Representatives today can also ask questions in writing and deliver them here, it will be forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers. At the next session if there are questions today, which is the session at the end of this month where there will be no such way of working, hence oral questions and direct answers with direct TV transmission, MPs will be able to comment on the questions they have asked in writing and will then also be able to ask in writing questions. And that's actually that newspaper we have in the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on. As far as you're concerned, you've been given the agenda for today's session, as far as the changes and additions to the session's agenda are concerned, I would like to mention the following. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Aviation Act – Proposer: MP Mirsad Mešić, Law No: 01-02-1-28/14, of 12.06.2014. (second reading), at the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications, which requested the merger of time limits for the delivery of the report. The Commission proposed to the BiH Council of Ministers at home that it should again ask the Council of Ministers for an opinion and found it appropriate to extend the amendment phase so that any shortcomings could be corrected by investing in the amendment. The college approved an extension of this deadline by 20 days. Point 4. Proposal for a Law on Obligation Relations in the Civil Aviation of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/14, of 24.07.2014. (second reading), at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which requested the extension of the deadline for the submission of the report by 20 days in order to prepare the corrections of the observed normative technical errors in the text of the Bill's proposal. The college approved an extension of the deadline by 20 days. 17 Point 5. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-35/14, of 15.09.2014. (second reading), at the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, which requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the report. The Commission did not consider the proposal for a law because of the absence of a proposal. The college approved an extension of the deadline by 20 days. Point 6. Proposal for a decision to adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Policy for the period from 2014 to 2020, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01,02-29-1051/14, from 23/09/2014, at the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications. The Commission proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers return the proposal to the Council of Ministers' new council meeting following the conclusion of the 62nd session, held on 23.01.2014. Then point 15. Approving the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Centre for the Development of Finance (CEF), number: 01,02-05-2-1165/14, of 30.10.2014. Point 20. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 2 of the Financial Agreement relating to the IPA State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is part of the IPA – the Transition and Construction Assistance Component for 2011 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, which is represented by the European Commission, issue: 01.02-05-2-1182/14, of 06.11.2014. And point 21. The granting of approval for ratification of Appendix 2 to the 2012 financing agreement relating to the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA – the transition and institution-building component for 2012 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, number 01,02-05-2-1180/14, of 06.11.2014, was downloaded at the request of the Commission for external affairs which delayed the notification thereof and requested further information from the relevant institutions authorised for those agreements. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Can I help you? Who wants to talk? Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4711	Dear Chairman, esteemed members of the BiH House of Representatives' House of Representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests and media representatives. I answered the word, therefore, within the framework of the agenda of today's session, with the aim of proposing a new agenda. Therefore, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure be placed in the agenda of the 3rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today. I suggest that this point be addressed as: - Discussing the pressure on freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the police search and blocking the Klix.ba newsroom. I assume that all of us in this highest legislative body are against any pressure on the media, any blackmail against the media, any intimidation of the media. I think as the highest legislative authority, we should call the team. In this regard, I also deliver appropriate, according to the Rules of Procedure, material for discussion, in written form, and I think it is very important that the highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina very clearly states that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a democratic and legal state where there is no place to intimidate any media in our country. 18 So, Mr. Chairman, I am delivering to you a written proposal and discussion material.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4712	Thank you very much. Certainly give us that material so we can read the exact name of the point when it's voted. The word is now Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome distinguished representatives, esteemed guests. I would ask one question, i.e. a proposal to expand the agenda which I had the opportunity to set and propose at the Extended College, and this is a proposal to define the point as the priority point of today's agenda: - the proposal for the resignation of Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Since we have recently witnessed very difficult incriminating accusations that are certainly unpleasant, both for Mr. Džaferović and for this high House, and just wanting this situation to be as dissipated and so that as soon as possible, all the authorities and institutions can do their job uninterruptedly, we suggest that Mr. Džaferović resign. So here, I repeat, it is extremely difficult accusations, and of course there is no need to remind you that a year ago, this tall House was replaced by Mr. Minister of Security, Mr. Radončić, on the basis of insinuations rather than by such severe incriminating accusations. Otherwise, unless this point is fixed on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the SBB MPs' club is going to leave this session today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4714	Thank you, Mr. Đonlagić. Just give it to us in writing. The word is Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4715	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media and of course other organisations present at today's House of Representatives session. In accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Club of the SNSD proposes to consider and adopt a new item of the agenda of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, and it would read: - Decision on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. We believe that this item of the agenda should be considered immediately after the 1st item of the agenda, the proposed agenda, and it refers to the adoption of the minutes. 19 The SNSD MPs' club proposes a new item of the agenda, which would include a decision on the resolution of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's chairmanship of the BiH Parliamentary House, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives for the existence of serious charges expressed through the documentation submitted by BiH Vice-President Mirsad Kebo, to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and what previous days have been spoken in the media – that Mr Džaferović did not prevent, report, or prosecute war crimes against Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past war. Article 27(a) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the House represents the House. Given what I have just said and what has been said in the media in recent days, I believe that Mr Džaferović can no longer represent the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or he can no longer be the chairman of the House of Representatives or member of the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. One of the reasons for our decision is the inappropriate statements by Mr. Džaferović, which represent an explicit attempt to deny the 9th day of Republika Srpska. I believe that in this way Mr. Džaferović abused the presidency's position, came out of the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions aimed at violating the Dayton Agreement, causing the country's internal destabilisation and violations of international and inter-entity relations. According to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in the performance of his duties, he is consulting with the deputies. ...Mr. Džaferović obviously didn't do it. In view of all the new agenda points mentioned above, we consider it necessary, urgent and justified, and we invite the honourable MPs of the House of Representatives to include it in the agenda of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives and to make a decision on this. The material was delivered, located in the service and is identical to the material addressed to the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4716	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4717	I thank the chairman. Well, maybe this is more of a business intervention, but here's the key. Since here, as I understand it, we have two different initiatives. I think the Kolegijum might need to suggest a break while the SBB delivers its initiative, or agree to be one point. So we have a procedural problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4718	Sure, I'll ask when we get to it. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4719	Here, Mr. Chairman, of course, are legitimate proposals to include agenda points, so this initiative was discussed by the extended college this morning in preparation for this 20-session and decided not to include this. From the discussion of colleagues Đonlagić and Košarac, it is obvious that this initiative is politically motivated, it is legitimate, so, but it is intended for something else rather than for the reasons mentioned there. And I am really asking this House to reject these initiatives as something that is at this moment and unserious, and unnecessary, and something that is actually politically motivated in order to stop the exercise of power or to achieve certain other political goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4720	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4721	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. So in writing, we received a proposal on the resolution of the chairman of the House of Representatives, which was delivered by the SNSD MEPs' Club. As an explanation, two reasons are essentially stated. The first is that there are allegations that are placed in the media, etc., and the second part of the argument concerns January 09th. When it comes to this second part of the reasoning, this proposal is a copy, but a weak copy of this SDS proposal since January of last year, so the former chairman of the House of Representatives has been replaced, Parliament has declared and given its position. When it comes to this first proposal, I think it's an essential thing that no man, not even the chairman of this House, is guilty until proven guilty. It is a fundamental right in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in the European Convention on Human Rights. I don't prejudge anything at all, but there are competent judicial authorities who need to deal with it, investigate it. If there is for anyone and for Džaferović and any MP, the minister, etc., it is their job rather than ours to talk about it on the basis of media rumors. And in the end, I don't think the proposer himself in these things is very credible, that it's from a political party whose president is solemnly welcoming convicted war criminals and now that they're telling us about it, I think it's a little too much. This has nothing to do with the chairman of the House of Representatives, this is one of the things that needs to be recognized by this House of Representatives and refused to be included in the agenda at all today. That's my opinion, and I believe a good part of you knows why I had to say this today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4722	Thank you very much. Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4723	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I expected this agony to end the chairman himself, Mr. Džaferović, and thus help us all. Therefore, at the place of the chairman of Parliament or of one home, there can always be an extremely honorable man with high moral characteristics. And when such a person is brought into contact with what is being put into his account, whether it's proven or unproven, he has the right to be an MP, but he has no right to represent the House. I'll remind you 21 just how true it is that many Serbian representatives, I expected the SDS to talk about it, but here I'll say, who encouraged this political party to be respected professors just because they were somehow touched for that party they were excluded from all, from college, from the Dean's place, so they were deleted from public life. I'll also remind you that many judges who had no crime, no connection to the war in that sense, stopped being judges just because they were being brought to the party, with a party that was during the war. If that is the case and if we were able to decide that there were no more of those extraordinary people who were, who could hardly be counted on, and we had to get rid of them, then it's the least horrible thing to talk about is one MP. Why would there be, what kind of equality are you talking about when you do not allow public debates to be launched, or debate within Parliament? Is there somewhere more talkable than here? Are we going to be better and will you be better off against it if you are not prepared to view war crimes the same way and treat all victims equally? The Vozuća's calling us to do it, and he's forcing you to do it. Please, all those who are still considering whether to support this initiative or not, to think carefully, because we are enough people if we refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4724	Thank you very much. As a replica, we have further registered to Mr Fehim Škaljić and Nermina Kapetanović. Mr. Scavenger, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4725	Thank you. Respected leadership of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, the rest of you present on a good day. The replica is to the fact that it is said here that our position is politically motivated. We were not in charge of this definition by the position of a political club in Parliament, but by the fact that one of the executive authorities in the Federation of BiH has presented, as an institution, accusations at the expense of our chairman. It is clear that the right to say that there is no guilt until proven, and it should be a process in the legal process, but there is something that burdens behavior when institutions bring out such attitudes and when it is simply in the time in which we live, with the legacy we have, it has a burdensome factor. It is known in parliamentary democracies in parliament that for moral reasons, it is very often abdicated to get space so that it can work in a legal procedure without burdens, and that the authorities of the legislative authority, such as parliaments, would have an unburdened dimension. We have been motivated by this fact to suggest that Mr. Džaferović says – okay, let this be cleared up, and I will be an active MP by then. And we thought it was moral, yes. On the other hand, it should be said that in the conduct of this Parliament, which has already been pointed out here, there have been content that did not respect the principle of the first right to make decisions. We are not talking about guilt, we are talking about the moral act of creating space for Parliament to work. The country is in a difficult situation both economically, politically and environmentally,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4726	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4727	The environment asks us to have a place where we can work normally. For these reasons, we have launched an initiative and we are asking that it be considered as a moral act to withdraw Mr. Džaferović, 22 of the current chairman, from that role. It is perfectly legitimate for the SDA to set up whoever it wants and quite legitimate when it is, and with our support, when it is cleared up in the legal procedure, let Mr. Džaferović return to the role of the chairman we have nothing against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4728	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, replica. Here you go. Take care of the weather, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4729	... on a statement by Mr. Đonlagić that formulates the agenda point as a proposal for Mr. Džaferović's resignation. Here, we at the SDA Club think it's not exactly in parliamentary democracy that it's common to give proposals to the agenda points, and especially not the resignation proposal. So that's not how it works in parliamentary democracy, probably why we should have more parliamentary experience. I understand the decision to resolve, I understand, so I understand that name but of course I do not agree with it because for such a large political party as the SNSD is a very inconclusive explanation as they give, and referring to Article 27, paragraph 1, which says that the chairman of the House represents the House, and that, given the fact that there has been talk, speech, in recent days in the media, it is a reason for them to request the transfer, or to resign Mr Džaferović's resignation. There are many things written in the media, I agree with the SBB gentleman that no one is blood until the blame is found, and particularly Mr Džaferović, whom you know has a very exceptional and long-standing judicial experience. Speaking to counterpart Majkić, she said she felt that Mr. Džaferović as an honorable man should resign himself. There are no, Mrs. Majkić, parameters to determine honor, unless there are some of your personal scales or insider scales, how honorable someone is and how honorable it is to be, to act on a function. It would be much more logical if one who spreads media rumors, unverified information and one who is master of conspiracy, conspiracy, planting and lies within Bosnia and Herzegovina and who is the creator of this idea that you are calling upon and formulating here as talking in the media and which gives you the right to suggest this as a part of the agenda, would be better if you called him here, so I tell you that the first part of your request is absolutely not justified. Your claim that Mr. Džaferović's inappropriate statements are related to the denial of the 9th of January of Republika Srpska Day, which we should only say about the claims made by the leader of your political party, Mr. Dodik, who publicly declares that he does not love the state of BiH, that there is only Republika Srpska, which is only important to him. So what is it then, Mr. Džaferović?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4730	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4731	abuse your position, and the leader of your political party doesn't? So your proposals are unfounded, unfounded, leave the D.A. to finish this thing, and then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4732	Thank you very much. 23 Again, Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4733	I would ask you first to be equal to all MPs, to use the time we have the right in the same way and not to favour anyone, even if it was someone from your party. That's one thing. Secondly, I have answered only to correct the blood allegations, I have said that the position of Parliament's President or Parliament's chairman requires an honorable man. So that's what I said, not to mention Mr. Džaferović, just in this context, there's no way she could have done it. So, in the future, when I say something, if you want to replicate it, you need to listen more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4734	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4735	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I welcome everyone present in the O.R. At this finding, as an unusual way of formulating this proposal, I just want to make a few additions. First of all, it is about things that have been brought out to the public by a man who is an institution, i.e. as vice president of the Federation, a man who is a longtime member of the SDA party, a longtime member of the party, which nevertheless implies that these things are relatively well known or that these things are known. He is a direct participant of all these events in a certain way, and this again gives the possibility that these things can be trusted. But here, we didn't want to go in that direction, but we wanted to go in the direction of protecting the president's dignity that would in such a way, and give him the opportunity to resign, to relieve these circumstances in which both the House and Mr. Džaferović himself are located, and also the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina who, on several occasions, really reacted violently, and we have a reaction of whatever you want, not just in certain media. Therefore, we felt that this was something that would be of great help to Mr. Džaferović that this situation would be clarified by not prejudicing the final decision. And that is why we gave Mr. Džaferović the opportunity to resign as chairman until this matter is clear. So, and one more thing, I think Mrs. Pandurević said that we agreed, the SNSD, we don't need to negotiate with anyone about this initiative, it's clearly defined and the intentions are clear, the intentions are really as I explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4736	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milica Marković's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4737	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've come out as a replica, but it's basically two false allegations or corrections to the wrong quote. The first refers to what counterpart Bećirović said when he said SNSD 24's proposal was not a credible proposal, because the president of Republika Srpska is actually coming from a party whose president of the republic is receiving various war criminals. And I now want to tell you, Mr Bećirović, that you would have been a credible speaker and spokeswoman that you said the same thing when Bakir Izetbegović as a member of the presidency received both convicted and unjudged war criminals in the middle of the BiH presidency. You have no right to say that about Mr. Dodik. And let me say to Mrs. Kapetanović, it is obvious that it continues that practice from some previous period that everything that comes from Republika Srpska, especially when the name Milorad Dodik is mentioned, is considered hostile territory and all the unwanted and incomprehensible that comes from Republika Srpska. It is unhonorable if you already mention honor in this House, it is unhonorable that you should bring it into comparison, in the company of Milorad Dodik as an honorable man whom no one has ever put in place in connection with a war crime, with Mr Džaferović to compare it to whose name and position you have already placed very heavy accusations from your member and from officials from the Federation of BiH. It is unworthy to bring, thus comparing those two names, because Milorad Dodik is the president of Republika Srpska's one honorable name and honorary institution in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4738	Thank you very much. Mr. Asim Sarajlić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4739	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague of Marković's replica. So it's not Republika Srpska equal to Milorad Dodik. Republika Srpska is an entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is mine and all citizens, and the entity of Republika Srpska is all BiH citizens, so there is, live both Bošnjak, Srbin, and Hrvat, and all other citizens and peoples. So we also heard about Mr. Dodik's honor and honesty in the media. When they say their organs, the court and the prosecution, then of course we'll argue. But here I am reporting from the simple fact that I am saying that Mr. Mirsad Kebo is not a member of the SDA, Mr. Mirsad Kebo, as the general public knows, BiH was a candidate for the BiH presidency as an independent candidate. Yes, the truth is Mr. Mirsad Kebo has been acting significantly in the past in front of the SDA, but Mr. Mirsad Kebo, who today or these days should be relieved today or Monday of his duties as vice president of the Federation, is the same duties that his fellow SBB colleagues are calling on to grant him constitutional powers and rights and to be considered by the authorities of BiH, this one, and yes, this same Mirsad Kebo, who, during last year during the protest, carried that blue wig and was accused of association from Republika Srpska. And that your colleague, Košarac, may know best that he has hidden the corpses of Serb victims in a surrounded Sarajevo as director of the RAD Communal Enterprise. So this is this credible Mr. Mirsad Kebo who thanks Bog goes to retirement and political history these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4740	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. 25 I had a business intervention, and now I'm told that I need to get my chart up when I have that intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4742	Well, it can be business, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4743	But here, I think the chairman has injured Article 71 point 2. The Rules of Procedure and made it possible to discuss the essence of issues which are on the agenda which, of course, cannot, and in this way has actually brought this House into a position to discuss the issue without deciding whether or not it will be discussed. So, please, Mr. Chairman, stop the debate on the essence of both proposals, so let's limit ourselves to whether we vote or not to vote to put this on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4744	Thank you. So this is the old dilemma we've had a long time ago, thank you for paying attention to that. I consulted with the secretary and the norm reads, so that's why I didn't react more sharply and I allowed this kind of debate and as far as I'm concerned she can go, but not as a part of the agenda, I'm not afraid of that debate, article 71 says in point 1. – at the beginning of the session of the House MP as well as any authorised promoter shall have the right to request the abandonment of the optional point and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And in point 2, it is said - the MP can't speak for more than 3 minutes, nor elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda unless he decides otherwise to the Kolegijum of the doma at the request of the Members. And he doesn't say anything anymore. So here, I would ask you, so what Mr. Novaković was talking about, this makes sense, try to be as brief as possible, but the Rules of Procedure is that I have no right, here in consultation with the secretary, to this kind of intervention. The word has Mr. Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4745	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to a respected colleague of Sarajlić. He recently presented data relating to Mr. Mirsad Keba, so it is now the first time here to say that Mirsad Kebo has been concealing the bodies of a war crime against members of the Serb people in Sarajevo during the war. I think it would be correct if you had brought this up before or started proceedings with the competent judicial institutions, and through your club in the House of Peoples, that is, the Federation of BiH House of Representatives' House of Representatives, you started the procedure for the resolution of Mirsad Keba if this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4746	Thank you very much. Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go, Mr. Šepić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4747	Mr. Chairman. So, from these discussions I wanted to hear a few views, but about, therefore, I can confirm what I had before I entered this room when it came to this initiative. So, first of all, this initiative has two objectives and has one basic message. So she wants to show, and these discussions show today, two people of the current Bosnian-Herzegovina policy, i.e. the current policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One is, therefore, the one who wants to turn forward and start doing something, and the other is the one who wants to leave us in the one, I'd say, mud that we've been in until these elections and in some ways we're going through after the October elections. So, the first goal is to delay the formation of power and to show that this parliamentary majority has no power and has no power to do anything. Another goal is to show that this country does not have the strength to change and turn to a new approach in which we will build an internal agreement and in which we will put what is the real problem of all the people in BiH on the agenda and act politically. So, the basic message is to keep the status quo and, therefore, that's what I said at the beginning, that through this initiative there are two policy faces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, some want to prevent this country from moving forward, while others are trying to make something based on an internal agreement and on what they need here tomorrow to speak to the two foreign ministers of two important countries, namely to talk about the new EU accession to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have had elections, these elections have shown that people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in both entities, in the area of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina want this time, so they want an internal agreement and they want a European path. That's why I call you, I'm not against any public debate and I'm sure we'll have these public debates, but if it's for the purpose of public debate, if it's intended to block us from moving on the European path, to start the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I don't think to those forces that want to bring us back don't have to give it right, I'm inviting you to reject these points of the agenda today. So, there's a lot of work ahead of us to show that we have the strength to turn to the future and do what the citizens expect us to do and why they chose us, and that these forces that are trying to bring us back to this mud, so we send a clear message that we're going to have on this first power platform and that we're going to show that this country has a chance and that this country if Bog succeeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4748	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić reported on the discussion. There are no more reports you will only allow me after Nikola Špirić to say a few sentences. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4749	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Yes, and I expected today to be some turning point for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I seem to have naively believed it. I can't understand that there's a slow parliamentary initiative here. So I can't simply realize that 20 years after Dejton and that the function of anyone restricts the debate, especially on the difficult and challenging issues for this country with which I have been the longest in these institutions of government, there are attempts to get this country, as the predecessor said before me, out of the mud and not to stay in the mud. 27 I absolutely agree with the discussions of my colleagues, Đonlagić and my colleagues, Fehim Škaljić. I must tell you that the SNSD initiative is not launched with the aim of stopping or, God Bog, not forming a new power. We're not going to spoil anyone's pleasure, you could do it today, if there's a majority, and it seems to exist, and I'm looking forward to it, choosing a new one, leaving the old one, forming a Council of Ministers. Where do you see the obstruction of those of us who are initiating the initiative, would you like to see it? Where are these obstructive activities? But here it's looking for a new chance, and I think today we're bringing the court and the prosecution into something that's not our responsibility, we're not a court, we're not a prosecutor's office, and Parliament can start initiatives and that someone has or doesn't have political responsibility, the court will say their own. Why do we in Bosnia and Herzegovina whenever we don't like the court and the prosecution, so as if we should work on our dictatorship, they have their terms to do, no one is forbidden to work. But what's particularly dangerous here, what I see today through the media, when we want to accuse the SNSD that we want to block the choice of government, so I have a feeling that the coalition is only possible if they want to cover up crimes against Srbin, means no one is accusing. So there's only such a relationship to the processing of war crimes. And that's why I think you must have the strength at least to put the initiative on the agenda. Everyone's gonna talk about themselves. I'm afraid this country will be this way, so I'm afraid to stay in the mud. It doesn't matter who, so if someone officially initiates initiatives, they have institutions that will officially respond, but if Parliament is silent on the basis of the public-refused footage, don't expect it to be possible to make a state. If the state parliament is the site of electoral people who are related to how you will make Bosnia and Herzegovina with Srbin, how? So they say, "Behold, Mirsad Kebo is a traitor." Who did he betray? Is that called treason? So he says -- he brings to the same level as the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army fighters and Republika Srpska soldiers, like these aggressors, and for God's sake we fought for freedom. A lot of dilemmas are open these days,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4750	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4751	but if you do not start the debate and if there are no political responsibilities, to the side of the court, I assure you, and once again I warn you, this country is without a chance, it is irrevocable on the path of radicalisation that will change Bosnia and Herzegovina's blood stream. I expected today that people who love Bosnia and Herzegovina would say okay, nothing would happen to the chairman, not the chairmanship. What's going on, so those who want to put political responsibility and criminal responsibility on the same level are actually behind this. A relationship to our initiative that is good for everyone in this country will create our relationship
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4752	Time, time, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4753	According to, okay, a long time ago for these stories, I'm afraid you came here with the ready-made views, but it doesn't matter. So unless these things are opened, I am afraid that, and ultimately, I cannot believe that after this Parliament it is possible to work on something that is common and that is together. And I look forward to all the results you're going to achieve, let me tell you right now, so we won't spoil that pleasure, but your relationship with our initiative today will also create our relationship with what you're proposing, so be assured. So it's not an aggravation, it's the last moment of battle for this unfortunate country, and everyone is going to be talking about themselves today. No one should be called political or named, but I think this is a time when we should all sober up a little bit in this country if there's a chance of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4754	Okay, thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, the discussion. Here you go. The discussion is up to three minutes, just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4755	I thank the chairman. Well, Mr. Špirić had a lot more. First of all, as far as this initiative of the SBB MPs' Club is concerned, here is a request for resignation. The request to resign, we cannot plead whether or not Šefik Džaferović will resign. You can request the replacement of Mr. Šefik Džaferović with the appropriate explanation, as was done by the SNSD MPs' Club, an initiative that was written entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As far as the SDS MPs' club is concerned, we will not support this initiative. I am sorry to hear that the distinguished fellow Špirić, who spoke here about political responsibility, and I remembered, at that time, I followed the meetings of this Parliament as a journalist, that he was sitting in this same kolegijum as Mr. Šefik Džaferović, and I wonder if it was the same Mr. Šefik Džaferović of the time or not? What changed in the meantime? I remembered that the Council of Ministers was elected here from 2006 to 2010 and that the Association of Campers from Republika Srpska and the Federation, the Association of Croatian Campers, had been rebelling against the election of a minister who was even reported by the media as having an open investigation into war crimes, an open investigation into war crimes. And he was elected, elected by SNSD MPs, his name is Selmo Cikotić. I think everyone should answer, but, as Mr. Špirić said, we are neither the court nor the prosecution. And even politicians, those who perform public functions need much more rigorously to respond than ordinary citizens. And if Mr. Šefik Džaferović is guilty, and if those are the charges, I don't really know what it says there, I haven't seen what Kebo handed over, maybe he handed over the most monstrous charges, maybe he took 2,000 empty papers, none of us saw that material. And if anyone has reason to be against people being tried for insinuation, we have SDS, because many SDS financiers have passed, and today they go through the googogue, based on various insinuations being unfairly accused before the Court of BiH, passing trials and thank Bog eventually and released. And somehow I can't get away with such an ugly impression that two days before the constituent session of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, a single indictment was filed here against a man, a SDS official, of my fellow MP in the National Assembly, whom The Hague tribunal investigated and found nothing, against him being investigated for 14 years. And imagine, the investigation resulted in a two-day indictment in front of a constitutional session of the National Assembly. But we also know about some calls from Banja Luka to Sarajevo – you're not going with them, you see their accused. And those are the facts. So, everyone who's guilty, and Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Kebo, who also
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4756	Time. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4757	has filed a criminal report that, as the director of the Communist company, Rad was hiding the corpses of the killed Srbin, it should be more stringent than an ordinary citizen, but this place is called the court. And when the court, the prosecution, presses charges, I believe Mr. Džaferović will resign himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4758	Thank you very much. Mr. Miroslav Milovanović, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4759	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues. I, of course, supported this initiative and signed it, because I want to say after all these stories I've heard, I want to say a few words. Some MPs are trying to replace the issues here that this is a political issue, so here I am asking if we are elected here as candidates of some groups of citizens or political parties who have delegated us to this House, to discuss many issues, even political issues, although I am absolutely sure, and you know that this is not a political issue, that this is a much broader issue than how someone wants to present that it is a political issue. Is Mr. Džafeorović, today, the same Mr. Džaferović from a time ago, we don't know that. We didn't say Mr. Džaferović committed war crimes, but serious charges were brought. And if we want to close our eyes to those accusations, and you here, you have a majority here, you can do it with the support of the SDS, and I see that it defends and represents the attitudes that are on the line with SDA's views, I understand that, we simply can't and we don't want to close our eyes to those allegations. I think Mrs. Majkić said it well, of course we can't make a decision that Mr. Džaferović will not be an MP in this House, but until the issue is dissipated, I don't think it's moral for Mr. Džaferović to be the one representing the House. I think that's how Mrs. Majkić wanted to present it here. I agree with that, and once again I ask all the representatives here to think very carefully, that it is not moral for Mr. Džaferović, besides such accusations, Mr. Kebo probably spoke, whether because of the fact that it has been some time since these war events, so there may be some personal problems with himself, so the time has come when he has to say some things, I really don't know it, but I don't think Mr. Džaferović can't be the one representing this House. We can't shut him out of this house, but it's not really moral for him to be the one representing the House. For if what is the object of the charge is proved, he will not be chairman, neither will he be in this house, he will be in prison. I don't want him to do it like I don't want anyone to go to jail, of course, but he will be with all those Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat who committed war crimes in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4760	Replica, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Mr. Staša Košarac, you can apply for the replica, you've had a discussion, so I'm told. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4761	I thank the chairman. 30 Morales seemed a very flexible category and abstract. I do not really enter into the responsibility or irresponsibility of Mr. Džaferović, that is what the courts should decide. But if we give ourselves the right to talk about any morals and set some moral standards, then we have to show them ourselves. Is that how you respected your colleague Milovanović? In that case, if we already advocated morality, when there was an affair in the procurement of the regressed fertilizer in the Republika Srpska government, whose minister you were, and when you existed, and SDS officials, submitted documentation that you had alienated and damaged the Budget of Republika Srpska for 3 million marks, so today on the business of Republika Srpska's goods reserves and also on the affair of the regressed đubriv we have an investigation into the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it was moral for Mr. Milovanović to resign. Right? When Kemal Čaušević, as we read in the media, called Mr Špirić for numerous malfeasances, it was necessary to resign. So, I'm just saying, when we teach others moral lessons, we need those same moral standards to apply ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4762	Thank you very much. The replica was answered by Mr Miroslav Milovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4763	Thank you. Well, let me just say about this famously regressed fertilizer. Of course, it is moral for one who is accused of some act when in one such position, and I was in the position of minister in the Republika Srpska government to resign when such insinuations exist. But what was amazing was the fact, of course, I didn't do it for one simple essential reason, because I, the Ministry of Agriculture, whose head I was at all not doing the procurement of regressed fertilizer. It worked at the Department of Commerce. Of course, as someone who is, and I was then president of the SNSD City Committee in Bijeljina, and I'm still a member of the SNSD Executive Board, and let's put it this way as Minister of Government, someone who was highly positioned within the SNSD I was the target. You've been accusing me of not three but five million, but that doesn't mean anything to you, two, three, up there, so you're throwing yourself away and flirting with some numbers that are funny. So, me, and Miroslav Milovanović did not make any purchases, did the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. You knew that, but you were in politics. And now your coalition partner won't let us do politics. And I understand you in that sense, I understand very well that you have accused me, because you were not interested in this minister who was head of the Ministry of Trade because in a political sense, under quotes, she was less interesting to you than I am, so I understand that. So I couldn't resign because I didn't put my signature on any of the acts that were in terms of obtaining that fertilizer, which was done by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism in Republika Srpska and I wasn't there. So that's what I wanted to say for the citizens and for these people here, with whom I want to have some normal co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4764	Please, I'd like to ask you, so when we say we're really bringing this to an end right now. We need to refer to the subject matter of this debate, the agenda point. Mrs Dušanka Majkić has a word for the discussion. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4765	Since I've used two replicas, I'll be brief, I won't bother... from now on, but I have to tell Miss Pandurević that it's amazing that the problem of putting the agenda, these points, is more about defending her as a member of the SDS, than the representatives of the SDA sitting here. Isn't it true that you forgot everything you said, especially about camps, those victims, that you didn't forget Kamenica and the left Serbian soldiers in the Mujahedin camp, that you didn't forget everything about this, to get a crumb of power? It's an honor to meet you. Don't forget, that power you've earned in your blood will be hard for you to get back. So to turn this, the story of agriculture, it's embarrassing, at this point and at this moment when we're talking about the dead and the dead Serbian fighters.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4766	Thank you very much. The replica was answered by Mr. Borislav Bojić. I apologize, therefore, to the vice-president, the second deputy, Mr. Mladen Bosić, asking for a word for the replica, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4767	Well, I think it's clear our position and right away we are, right, the party that felt the most on its back false accusations, registrations, arson, our people have gone through drastic punishments, shifts from function, shagging, very often and with the support of the opposition then in Republika Srpska, with their intensive co-operation. And our attitude is based on that and on those facts that should not be done. So our attitude isn't if you're doing this to us now we're doing it to you. And let me tell you, I consulted the people who went that way, who were in prison, who were released after years of trial without any evidence, because someone for political reasons had made their application. And you know what they said -- it's not Parliament where it's being solved, we're giving you support to fight for the rule of law. Here's the problem that the judiciary doesn't do its job. It is not Parliament who decides who is to blame and who is not to blame. And about moral responsibility, don't let us talk, and don't talk. There are few people here who are so moral that they can teach lessons. Someone mentioned the character Milorad Dodik as a high moral character who didn't commit any crimes. Well, he didn't work because he wasn't there, he was in Belgrade, he was selling couches during the war here. So let's finish this story, concentrate on what's at home's job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4768	Thank you very much. I again, therefore, appeal to all MPs and MPs to bring this to an end, to make decisions. I have a few sentences to tell you, too, but here, I have to honor the Rules of Procedure. Business intervention Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4769	...which member was injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4770	Yes, you must say which member is injured, what is it. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4771	A colleague, Novaković, intervened in the Rules of Procedure when it comes to Article 71(2), which is very clear. And at the very beginning of this debate, this debate seemed civilized. However, as more time goes by, it is getting further and further away from it, and we are less and less concerned with what the document is, that is, the proposal we have received. Also, I draw attention to the members of 79 and 80 who are concerned with maintaining order, because here it has also started with insulting MPs and if, I know that it is difficult for you to hold a session on this agenda because of you, but I call on you to get rid of that burden and to guide it as if it is talking about any other issue and to focus on what is on the agenda and not to allow discussion in this way, mutual insult, because we go too far and talk about topics that are really not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4772	Thank you. We saw those cuts. I call you again, this is, therefore, the third time, to bring this debate to an end. Things are completely clear here. Ms. Milica Marković, after that Mr. Staša Košarac and we have, Mr. Sarajlić cannot have a discussion, can have a replica, and then we have two more discussions. But before that, I apologize all the time, come on, Mrs. Milica, you're up, I forgot to apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4773	No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4774	I apologize to you, so Mrs. Krišto is asking for a word. Here you go, you're up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4775	Well, I mean, first of all, there's a lot of potential here today for what's on the agenda, and what's the subject of the agenda and what's not, but it's a potential for those to whom it fits. When he answers to tell them what's not on the agenda, it's okay, but when he doesn't answer, then we're gonna honk on that background. My replica refers to Mr. Bosić's exposure here trying to convince us from the SNSD club that they allegedly can't support it today, that's because of what SNSD was doing to you in some previous period. And you, Mr. Bosić, here consciously or unconsciously, I can't know that, but you're bringing into context two incomparable things. You're bringing into context, according to you, some political rematch with 68 missing persons who are still missing from the car crashes today. And these 68 families are still looking for their sons and fathers today, and they haven't found them, and they don't know if they'll find them. And you're now bringing it into context that, you can't support it that someone is considered not morally to run this House for things that concern 68 missing persons and families that are tragically grieving today. That's one thing. And the other thing, about the President of the Republic, is that it's a shame that the SDS has thus leveled the institution of the President of the Republic here in the middle of Sarajevo. It's a shame what you're doing. On the side of what you think of Milorad Dodik, but Milorad Dodik is the president of the Republic and institutions in Republika Srpska. And that you said he couldn't be a war criminal during the war because he wasn't there, so you're telling the truth in front of this whole auditorium. Milorad Dodik was an MP at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska throughout 33 times and was a fierce opposition to the SDS for what he did and what he did. And that you said he was selling couches, so that's without comment, to say that about the President of the Republic that way, and after all, maybe it was better to sell couches than to be a war criminal. [[You can't hear the video.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4776	... Several members of this Rules of Procedure have already been broken during this debate. [[no microphone turned on]] I understand your position, however, has begun to present some of the thesis that are really too heavy, which I don't know that we've ever heard in parliamentary benches before, as the thesis we just heard, that the new government is forming, quote, on blood. It's really too much. It is evident that we have separated ourselves from what is on the agenda and for this reason, on behalf of the Club, I propose, that I request a 30-minute break to calm our passions and return to today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4777	So, break 30 minutes. We'll continue at 12:30. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like the MPs to step into the O.R., continue our work, and I'd like to ask anyone who doesn't need to give up the discussion. I think we've discussed this enough, I'll only say two more, three sentences if you let me, but here, if you insist I'll let you argue. The first is for the word, call the MPs to enter the O.R., Mr. Komšić, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4779	Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, here I was listening to this debate since it was serious things, very serious things, especially for those who were either at war or lost their loved ones. We can go over it just like that, though I don't think we should. Mr. Džaferović, since this is about you, you know that I have a private excellent opinion about you, but I would vote with both my left and right hand for your shift if it turned out to be something of what we are discussing here. However, for this honorable House, it is possible that this naive question that I'm going to ask, I would love it when we decide something to let me see something, or we should decide something just on the basis of what someone said. If you have any evidence, let us see. True political and criminal responsibility is not the same, but it takes something for both of us. How am I supposed to decide if I didn't see anything? I have this dilemma, perfectly normal, human, not even political. So I'm asking those who suggest this give us people some evidence, give us something to decide on, so that I'm clean in front of myself, because, I repeat, it's about the most terrible accusations, it's not about some ordinary crimes, it's about war crimes. That's it, thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4780	Thank you, Mr. Komšić. Mr. Asim Sarajlić is not in the O.R., the word is Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4781	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I sign what my colleague said earlier, as far as this part is concerned, but since we are still in the agenda, I would like to put item 6 on the agenda and draw attention to something much more important for the citizens of BiH. By reading carefully the materials delivered to us, it is said that in December, i.e. 12 months 2013. The Council of Ministers adopted this framework, BiH's Framework Transport Policy, which in this House of Representatives in the first month of last year was returned to completion and some corrections. I am surprised by Transparency International's data that every sixth family in this country is practically hungry, that children eat every second or third day, that it took six months to form a working group, more precisely formed in the seventh month, and then in the next six months, means practically a year that it has changed not a letter, but only one figure and thanks to the calendar year, so this Framework Transport Plan is not since 2013 but is now from 2014. It is clearly stated in the explanation that this is one of the preconditions and accession negotiations and applications for IPA II projects and the corresponding moralization of previous colleagues when introducing such a single agenda item, I would insist that these things that the future of the people of BiH depends on, pay a little more attention to these things that people are not hungry and at the poverty line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4782	Thank you, Mrs. Zelenika. Dear colleagues and colleagues allow me just two, three sentences, and then we'll go to the vote. Can I have the word of Deputy Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4783	Here you go, Mr. Đaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4784	Mr. Košarac asked for a replica, so if you want to discuss it I will, I said after this we won't finish, please, if we can do it like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4785	Thank you. First of all, I take the opportunity to state my personal position, and I think it is the attitude of most citizens of Republika Srpska, which is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has failed the trial of war crimes and the search for the missing. And today, when we asked anyone, although Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin or others on the subject are certain that people would not be satisfied with what has been done in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past. She agreed on the situation of the moment, and when High Representative 35 imposed the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, all cases with entity and cantonal were transferred to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and there is a key problem. Today, no entity prosecutor's office, no cantonally, can launch an investigation without the BiH prosecution's consent, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Office, is initiating investigations, and that's the problem. If we take the fact that the BiH Parliament has not adopted information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for three years, look at the records, we are talking enough about the BiH Prosecutor's Office producing mistrust with every normal citizen in this country. If we know that many cases are in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, that they're pulling onto drawers, then how can we trust them? I would like to remind you of several active cases which have been standing for years, some 20 years, from Tuzlana Cola, Dobrovoljačka, Sijekovec and a series of other Western Ukrainian municipalities, etc., etc. If we have the information that, in the meantime, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court ruled with their decisions for Srbin 1.198 years, Bošnjak 171 years, Hrvat 148, or 68 Srbin, 7 Bošnjak and 9 Hrvat were arrested in 2014 alone, then we need to understand here that we do not trust the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we do not trust. And therefore any reference to the BiH Prosecutor's Office's decision being made has no support for us from the SNSD because we see what the BiH Prosecutor's Office is doing. The SNSD does not trust the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice. And that's why I want to say why we started this procedure this way. We think it is quite logical and normal that Mr. Džaferović cannot represent the House of Representatives. Mr. Džaferović, you do not have the support of the SNSD to represent it, it is our legitimate right, because you are suspected of concealing the war crimes against Srbin, you have not prosecuted it and we will not give it up. And just in the end, I'd say, please, no one from the SNSD has commented here on any character of any political party or its leader,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4786	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4787	We do not allow anyone to characterise SNSD to be inconclusive or to give any qualifications to our president because we do not do that to your parties or to your leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4788	Thank you. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4790	Again, so please finally, let us finally approach the end of this debate. Can you give up Mr. Novaković, if you can't please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4791	Well, I've really tried not to comment and not discuss it, but I have to comment on one thing, because that's where I agree with Mr. Košarac, that we don't trust the BiH Prosecutor's Office. But I must point out that in all of the arrests under order 36 of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the territory of Republika Srpska, the RS MUP headed by the RS government's minister. So we'd have to manifest that mistrust and a little bit different than just through a political story. That's all I wanted to say and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4792	Thank you very much. Can I have the word at last now?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4793	Chairman Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4794	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm having a hard time eating, what's been going on with me for the past month is a disgusting lie and a monstrosity structure. I am an honest and honest man, and I am proud of every minute of my biography and every place I have worked, I am proud of the role of the Centre of Security Service, whose head I have been to, Zenica, since 15.07.2014, and of the members of the police who have preserved their face for the most difficult times and have done their job without any kind of puck. I'm asking you to understand one thing, and it's that I don't need anyone's decision and anyone's suggestion to step down from this place just to show that there's any doubt about what's been said as a meal against me. I've been insistent on the Bosnian Herzegovina public since this happened I've been pointing to documents, alleged documents that support this for which I'm being backed. One alleged official note was taken there since 18.08., dated 18.08.1994, and it speaks of entering the freed place of Vozuć in connection with the escort and arrival of senior officials from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Voduca is freed, it is probably known to everyone, only in September 1995. How is it possible to write about the September '95 events on 18th of1994? the year on the entry into Voduca, on the arrival of a delegation, etc.? I'm asking that these things be made clear that, people, this is a fake. In a letter you call a high-ranking official, responsible official who puts a wig on his head and walks in Sarajevo, his letter to the D.A. states that this alleged event took place on April 18th 1994, and I am CSB's chief of staff became a human being in 15th of July 1994. Here's the paperwork right here. The second note, referring to that alleged centre in Zenica, states that it was written on 10.04.1995, and its text states that the centre and the people were removed or ceased to exist in May '95. A year. And how is it possible that in 10.04 someone writes that something stopped existing in May of '95? A year? I won't go any further. I'm just looking back at the documents that are listed. I have a lot to say and why this happened and as this happened, this has been going on for a few years against me. I've been trying to trouble myself and discredit myself in this most difficult way for several years. And when that didn't go hand in hand with a fake, then it was put into the hands of that person to discredit me publicly. This is the public discredition of Šefik Džaferović to let you know. And I declare to this high House – if I am being prosecuted, I need no one, then I will step down from the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives, but if things go the other way, and they will go, I assure you that they will go away, because the truth is quite different, it is true that this is a disgusting lie and a monstrous structure, then I demand that Mr. Mirsad Keba be prosecuted for the crime of false reporting. I beg you, we'll be seeing this Parliament here, today I've heard a lot of things here on my own account, it's hard for me to sit here and follow it all together, but it's my destiny and I 37 just have to live through it. And you know well, Džaferović has never done a single crime in his life. Thank you very much. The first item of the agenda, which was proposed as a complement to the agenda, is the proposal of MP Denis Bećirović, who reads – Discussing the pressure on freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina with special reference to the police search and blocking of the Klix.ba portal. So we're voting on including this point in the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 30 votes for, without against and nine abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority adopted to make this a part of the agenda. I suggest that this point be in fifth place, right, fifth point of the agenda, and then this giving consent, if you don't mind, Mr. Bećirović. Let's move on, let's go to the proposal of MP Mirsad Đonlagić, who reads – Application for the resignation of the chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the House of Representatives with 10 votes in favour of, 27 votes against, two abstentions rejected this proposal. We are going to propose a supplement for Mr Košarac's proposal, so the proposal of SNSD MEP Staša Košarac, Lazar Prodanović, Nikola Špirić, Milica Marković, Miroslav Milovanović, Dušanka Majkić and Jovan Vukovljak, who reads – Decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the post of chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH – member of the College of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with six votes in favour of, 32 votes against, 1 abstention refused the SNSD's proposal to the SNSD's MPs, MPs of the numbered. Now I just want to declare what the agenda is, and then you'll get the word, because now it's next. Mr. Košarac is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4795	I'd like to present the position of the SNSD Parliament Club. The SNSD will leave the session, and on how and how we will act in the future, the Club and the Party's leadership will make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4796	Thank you very much. 38 Dear ladies and gentlemen, I find that today’s session agenda is as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the second session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Other Refunds in BiH-level Judicial and Prosecutorial Institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-1-31/14, of 22.07.2014 (second reading); 3. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH for 2013, Act No 01,02-50-19-491/14, of 07.04.2014 and Act No: 01/3-50-19-491/14, of 01.09.2014; 4. Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: Ambassador Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-2-1440/14, since 24.12.2014; 5. Proposed by Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović, who reads – Discussing pressure on freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the police search and blocking of the Klix.ba newsroom; 6. Giving consent to the ratification of the IPA EC Grant Agreement (A Water Quality Protection Project: Mostar Waste Water Treatment plant) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1062/14, since 26/09/2014; 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement (Drina Flood Protection Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Community, issue: 01,02-05-2-1112/14, of 13.10.2014; 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID) for the project Highway in Corridor 5c Subdivision of Klopče-Donja-Donja Gračanica (Component A), number: 01.02-05-2-1126/14, of 17.10.2014; 9. Approving the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID) for the project Highway in Corridor 5c Subpart of Klopče-Donja-Donja Gračanica (Component B), No: 01,02-05-2-1125-2/14, of 03.12.2014 (reared text of the Agreement); 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Loan and Project between KfW, Frankfurt at Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance (Federation), and the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), for the amount of 11,000,000.00 euros – The Water Supply and sewerage Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II, issue: 01.02-05-2-1339/14, of 22.10.14; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank on the regional housing programme – BiH 1 (2013), number: 01,02-05-2-1140/14, of 22.10.2014; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, which is represented by the European Commission on the 2013 State 39 Programme under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01.02-05-2-181/14, of 06.11.2014; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2010 National Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina Part 2 – Water and sewerage in Republika Srpska – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-1190/14, of 10.11.2014; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Global Environment Fund Grant Agreement (Project and reduction of the environmental pollution of the Adriatic Sea between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, issue: 01,02-05-2-1243/14, of 26.11.2014; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Funding Agreement (The Energy Efficiency Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, issue: 01,02-05-2-1249/14, since 27.11.2014; 16. Giving consent to ratification of Treaty No 1 on the Amendment to the Guarantee Treaty signed on 23.07.2010 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2-1067/14, of 26/09/2014; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Ninth Amendment to the Grant Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for the Business Development Programme, issue: 01.02-05-2-1179/14, since 06.11.2014. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Moving to point one, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 2nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, they tell me he's looking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4798	Mr. Chairman, since our well-intentioned, very correct, and in order to protect the inadequacy of these institutions, and so personally, our initiative has not been accepted, we have announced that we will leave the session, today's session, and we will now do so, and we will inform you of our further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4799	Thank you very much. sekretar, do we have a quorum?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4800	We do. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4801	We've got quorum, we've got work to do. So, please, adopt the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) And this proposal for a law in first reading was adopted in the previous House meeting at the 73rd House session, held on 25 September 2014, also in the second round of voting after the College of the House failed to reach agreement. And for this bill, the deadline for the amendment began to run from 31.10.2014. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report on 14 January 2015. An amendment was adopted which reads as follows: - In Article 1. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on salaries and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions is amended and reads as follows: "3. Judges and prosecutors have the right to compensation for their vacation in accordance with the sublaw adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions "The Official Messenger", No. 50/08, 35/09/09, 75/09/32/12, 42/12/50/12, 32/13 and 87/13." The Commission also proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to draw up a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions to equalise the amount of financial compensation received by staff in BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions on the basis of the right to regress on the basis of the amount of financial compensation on the basis of the right to regress for the annual vacation in BiH institutions in accordance with the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Salko Sokolović. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there is no President of the Finance and Budget Committee here, a few things have been said about the very course of the Finance and Budget Commission session and the way in which, that is, the reasons why the Finance and Budget Commission has decided to accept the amendments proposed in the amendment phase, and as to whether the amendment and addition of the Law on Refunds and Salaries in the Court and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of the BiH State. 41 The Constitutional Court found, in the light of the above mentioned law, that the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions does not comply with Article 1.2 of the Constitution. Bosnia and Herzegovina and ordered that fees – a warm meal, transportation and accommodation, be treated on the basis of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there should be an amendment to the law mentioned above, we also felt in the Commission that we should adopt the amendment that we have proposed, MEPs Sokolović and Fazlić, for the simple reason why, as well as the compensation for the annual vacation under the Law, the Law on Payments in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in one of its members and the regress compensation, was treated formally, whether, as a compensation, and we felt that through the amendments and addition of this existing Law, it was not treated and that discrimination already existed in one other way. And the introduction of these fees into amendments, following amendments and additions to the Law on fees and salaries in the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, would now create another kind of discrimination against employees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by the amendment's reaction. The reason for one such activity is that, if we were already a longer period of time when salaries are in the institutions and fees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are treated in such a way that the Council of Ministers takes a sublegal act and that for all those coefficients of wages below four, whether it defines the figure, that decision has already been made, the fee for vacation for all employed in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina which have a coefficient of less than 4 is 300 KM, and for all those employed in institutions with a coefficient of over 4 vacation fees is 1 KM. If this amendment were not made, and we are treating the same legal solution, then for judges and prosecutors, the fee under this Law would remain, now that their salaries are expressed in a nominal sense, 2,100 KM would remain. I think it is correct and fair, since we have eliminated one discrimination that, on the recommendation of the Constitutional Court, we should eliminate other discrimination and thus put ourselves in a situation so that everyone employed in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina now and the judiciary and the prosecution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are treated in the same way without any access to discrimination. We are here at the first treatment of the Law on Payments and Receipts in the judiciary and the prosecution, meaning at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only judges and prosecutors have been treated, but in Article 17 of the Law, we also have defined professional staff who also have salaries over, greater than that of the coefficient 4, so that one part of the professional staff, if they do not continue to respond to this Act, would remain in this privileged position. That is why the Finance and Budget Commission adopted one conclusion and I expect that the adoption of this Finance and Budget Commission Report will be adopted and this Law, which is now being treated by Article 17. The law and requires the Council of Ministers to now and those salaries they have officially, meaning they enter this formula by which the coefficient is greater than 4, and should be treated as those employed in the institutions under this Law on Salaries and Compensations in the Institutions of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina by means of a decision of the Council of Ministers by a certain sublaw act in the same way in the same legal framework. For these reasons, I call on the House of Representatives to adopt the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget, and the Council of Ministers to propose new amendments and amendments to this Act as soon as possible so as to have one correct law that would treat all employees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where compensation is in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4804	Thank you very much. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. 42 Let's go to point three, Ad. 3. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2013 Management Board This Report was included in the 66th House session, held on 14 May 2014, but was removed from the agenda at the request of the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs because the Commission requested a supplemental of the Report by 30.06.2014. This deadline was extended until 30/09/2014 at the request of the BiH Export Credit Agency, and the completed Report was delivered 01.10.2014. The committee responsible for foreign trade and customs, the Report opinion delivered on 13 January 2015. The Commission accepted the Report and proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: - It is up to the BiH Export Credit Agency to notify the Parliamentary Assembly of all the measures and actions taken at the latest by 01.05.2015, with a view to removing difficulties and ensuring the necessary preconditions for normal work of the Export Credit Agency. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4806	Gentlemen chairman. As chairman of the Trade and Customs Commission, let me just say a few words. For a long time, this IGE Export Credit Agency Report for 2013 is in the parliamentary procedure and, in fact, when we should consider the 2014 Work Report today, we are still considering the 2013 Report. Why is that? This is one sequence of circumstances, i.e. the situation on the market, because in fact our Export Credit Agency gave guarantees to one of the businesses in BiH, which fell into a difficult crisis and these guarantees exceeded the value of the capital held by the Export Credit Agency. This is why the Commission unanimously supported this report. He is who he is, we are not happy that he is, but we have supported the report with the conclusion that you have received with the Commission's opinion. It means that the Export Credit Agency is in charge of informing the Parliamentary Assembly of all the measures and actions taken by 01.05.2015 at the latest, with the aim of removing the difficulties and ensuring the necessary preconditions for normal work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency. Because here we will see when we consider the 2014 report that actually that agency is completely blocked because of the inability to function. That is why we expect the Council of Ministers to take certain activities, too, to actually put this Export Credit Agency in a position to function normally. This question is actually about my representation question, which is when we have a situation where commercial banks don't give or reluctantly give guarantees to exporters, when they give loans at very high interest rates, and I'm afraid that if we shut down this Agency too, our economy will come into a very difficult and unfavourable situation when it comes to exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4807	Thank you very much, Mr. Mehmedović. 43 Mr. Borislav Bojić answered the question. Here you go, Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4808	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll ask you a few questions. I guess there's an agency representative present here, since I have some questions, I don't know if, if it is, it would be good to ask a few questions. I think it's an important issue for the Export Credit Agency, which is now, I think, in the most difficult situation since when it exists, and it is, of course, caused by this business that has been hit by the UNIS. Namely, the situation will be even more difficult to come by considering that judicial proceedings for forced payment have been launched, and especially when it comes to domestic banks, it is Nova Bank, Bobar Bank,..., etc., it is 11 million KM. It seems to me that here it will need a little more competent institutions that are related to the Export-Credit Agency itself, especially when it comes to Republika Srpska and the Federation that have inter alia interests. When it comes to the Agency itself, I noticed that, let's say, the Federation's 9 million-dollar government, as a deposit to be granted to the Export Credit Agency, provided. I want to know what it is when it comes to Republika Srpska, especially when, since this firm is located in Republika Srpska. I would also ask a representative of the Export Credit Agency to tell me what is going on with technical assistance, when it comes to the European Commission, starting primarily from the fact that we can get this technical assistance from the European Commission, and that the Council of Ministers addressed the European Commission for a request for a study. Given that this procedure is under way, it would be good to know, from the Council of Ministers, as long as this procedure actually took place, so that simply our export-related economic operators would be able to pay practically through this Export-Credit Agency, in particular, what my colleague Šemsudin said, when it comes to commercial banks that are reluctant to guarantee when it comes to the business that our companies are carrying out abroad, and I think it is in the best interest that these companies operate. These are some two questions and, of course, I think that this Export Credit Agency has its place and role, it has its function and it would be good to see what interest the entity governments show in terms of providing this Export Credit Agency with sufficient resources, so that it can function. Finally, it is necessary to consider the possibility of improving the situation in this Export Credit Agency itself in another way, which requires, of course, the participation of a number of political factors, and ultimately the founders of the Export Credit Agency itself. Here, that's for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4809	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? And do we, so Mr. Zaim Backović asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4810	Of course, not wanting to obstruct the Commission chaired by Mr Mehmedović, whose member I am, I have discussed and pointed out some things that still carry inconsistencies in the overall business of the Agency. With a little simplified clarifications, so that we all know these economic flows, I'm going to try to do it in a plastic way to show it. 44 Someone is a customer of a product. The buyer of this product with the manufacturer signs the contract. In that contract, whoever is the buyer guarantees an advance of the repromaterial part to the manufacturer who will make the goods that the buyer buys. The Agency shall issue a guarantee of the funds provided by the buyer as advance funds for the purchase of something. Who now monitors the realisation and flow of these funds? That's where the problem begins. Melting what can't be melted, because it's intended to be paid for repromation. Let's just say that it's okay, too, that repromatter came in. Some pipes were made in the pipe factory. Those pipes need to pull the buyer now. On the day he was admitted, he earned the obligation to pay the rest of the funds in total. Where did the shlas come from? So that's a crucial question, and that over a long period of time, it's always going to be the same step, and there's no money, because those who asked for guarantees are looking for a return of their funds. I can't accept the explanation, the factory's restored, it's a good factory. I've been bound for about 35 years by life circumstances for that factory, by this factory, by my own work, by the fact that I've been tied up, by the insolent pipes, by the warmly rolled, coldly rolled, not to mention, because it's my job, my profession, what I'm doing, and I know the equipment that's inside, how it could have been estimated at as much amounts and that there's basically nothing as a cover today, but there's a direct disappearance, or evaporation of funds. The agency as such is necessary. I'll navest here my esteemed colleagues an example and colleagues from Republika Srpska. A consortium of Bosnian Herzegovina companies, composed of Federation and Republika Srpska companies together, at the prequalification for the construction of World Football Championship facilities in Emirates, for the current handball championship, for all Asian games, the consortium was the first. It was a potential job for Bosnia and Herzegovina of nearly 2.5 billion. No one could guarantee these companies, no creditor, no bank, no one wanted to stand behind them. And they didn't get the job, of course, but they got it from companies whose banks exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these banks are not in any export arrangement to stand behind the Bosnian-Herzegovina firms. I can now list them in order, Austrian, German, Italian. If Štrabak shows up at any job, and his rival is a Bosnian-Herzegovina firm, he has no chance of a Bosnian-Hungarian bank company from Austrian banks, who exist here, getting a guarantee. There's no way. Therefore, you are necessary and should be well strengthened, but you need to be strengthened and humane, people who know these flows. Because it's just amazing that you guarantee an advance, and then there's no turning back. So there's no product. If these are withdrawing their funds through the banks that you've been working through, then it's amazing that there was no monitoring of the flow of imports of repromaterials. You mentioned Ukraine, as I recall, at that meeting. Well, I guess there are at our borders whether that re-promatter entered this Bosnia. I guess there are streams. And then you need to know where they're headed, and if that's even aimed at getting what it's meant for. And he's right, Mr. Bojić, this is a much wider problem. And here, some other institutions should be involved, not Parliament. Parliament adopts mere work – they did this, they did this, they did it there, they gave a guarantee here, they gave a guarantee there, there's no money. Therefore, I propose that this Parliament in order to strengthen something that will give Bosnia and Herzegovina an opportunity to the economy, here I do not speak to the entities, the economy will not know the entities, the economy of the sea, we are too weak, too weak, too, we have to take a step, whether directly through something called the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, through something called the merger of the interest of the entity, so that the entry of funds towards the Agency which, as a state body, will be guaranteed for something that needs to be done, which we must do, I propose that this Parliament form a single body that is fat, deeply going to enter into an analysis of the overall work, propose measures and look for ways to ensure that Bosnian Herzegovina businesses are again starting to return to the markets that are completely, people, open. Few people here know, all the Olympics... in Munich have built Bosnian Herzegovina companies, they're asked to come and maintain 45, no one will vouch for those jobs. Because no one's going to get involved because everyone has other interests, and those other interests have gotten deeper and deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4811	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion, but now we have Mrs. Diana Zelenik's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4812	I hope my colleague Backović didn't mean anything by it when he said something got into our Bosnia. Well, there's such a little patriotic place I have to say that the state's name is Bosnia and Herzegovina, so don't forget us in that context, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4813	All right, that's undeniable stuff. Don't do it to Mr. Backović. You want to do it again, come on, you just have to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4814	...a duty of apology. In the manner of speech and presentations, in order to shorten sentences, I will keep my attention in the future. And right now, let me tell you that Herzegovia is part of me, because if anything, my wife is from where you come from, and she's very close to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4815	Okay, thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? Mr. Backović, step off the line, and Mr. Borislav Bojić has a word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4816	I'm just saying, so I think this is an essential issue for the owners of the agency, and the owners of the agencies are among other Republika Srpska, the Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Agency's owners have an interest as well as all their business collectives to, above all, put this issue ahead of them and assess how this Agency should be trained or organised completely differently. That should be left to whoever owns it. So he'll certainly show interest in every collective at any level that he's in. ... simple clarifications to be understood, so the owner of this agency is Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. They're the owners. They have the highest responsibility for business collectives and should show their greatest interest in allowing this agency to do what it needs to do. The biggest problem now would be the bankruptcy of this UNIS factory. Then, rest assured, this agency would disappear because the bankruptcy of the UNIS in Derventa would have practically occurred and the bankruptcy of the Export-Credit Agency and... would have been without the Export-Credit Agency if the bankruptcy of the UNIS factory in Derventa occurred. That is why I believe that this issue really needs to be paid attention to by the Council of 46 ministers and by the people themselves who work..., the European Commission must, given the opportunities offered by the European Commission and, certainly, all those interested in giving this agency a chance for our businesses that they can carry out jobs that are in the interest of business collectives in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4817	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. If you have any needs in front of the agency, there were some questions, if you have any questions, I'll give you my word to answer. Here, introduce yourselves at the pay phone and tell me what you have. After that, we'll conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4818	I am Lamija Kozarić-Kozarić-Rahman, director of the agency, for many years. I would like to welcome the chairman and all the honourable MPs. First, as most of you know, IGA has been seeking additional capital, additional support from the presentation of the report since 2009, so that it can continue to support our economy. Unfortunately, every initiative, there was also an initiative to consider the 2010 report, 2011 and 2012, for additional capital, however this has never been realised, has never received sufficient support. I just want to say that IGA has been working with the same capital for 19 years, and since the adoption of the Export Credit Agency Act since 2004, it's been 10 years, which is 51 million marks, without any capitalisation, deposits or anything. We had a very difficult period in 2008-2009 when our companies had very many losses, and so did we. We have a lot of non-refundable loans, paid guarantees to firms that are in bankruptcy, let's say, they ended up in bankruptcy and we weren't able to get our money back. From our earnings, we self-finance, we created reserves and from these reserves we were actually trying to provide support through insurance, guarantees and factoring. Only the illustration works, the IGA has issued, in 10 years, the last 10 years, with a capital of 51 million marks, this one covered the contracts, the value of the 2.5 billion marks contract. We gave 500 million in insurance. So insurance is a very specific product which is the basic business of the Export Credit Agency, which is to ensure the collection of claims by export. We, then, have acted in accordance with the rules of the Bern Union, whose member we are. So it's one association of export-credit agencies of the world and it has its own rules. They're state agencies, then. And when you take, for example, the export-credit agencies of our neighbours, Croatia, Serbia, where, for example, Habor had seven times more capital activity, we couldn't, of course, where Aofi in the Republic of Serbia only got 500 million for guarantees in 2013 and 2014. And we, of course, can't deal with it, not at all, with business of serious support with such a small capital. As far as the UNIS factory is concerned, he is one of our biggest clients and he's really been doing fantastic work all these years. About the material that Mr. Backović mentioned, he did enter, it was processed, there were pipes, the company was, we were of course following it, but very expensive sources of financing and the drop in steel prices during 2013 on the world market, it is known that stock exchanges, has led to the problem of this factory, and thus us. As for technical assistance, we have sent a request to the European Commission, however, unfortunately, it has never been realised, it has never moved. Because they were looking for the consent of the entity, and we were never able to achieve it, and by doing so, we couldn't even get to that technical assistance 47. I would completely agree that the Agency really needs serious restructuring and additional capital, because nothing has been done on the Agency for the last 10 years. The law was passed and none, not even the interministral council provided for by the law, which was to give guidance to this Agency. We, here today, have a lot of demands from construction companies, which can get jobs and get jobs in the region, for guarantees. We can be much more favourable, so, we can be much cheaper, we're accepted, so, regardless of these problems we're in right now, than investors of our construction firms as a guarantor. And I think it's a shame not to take this opportunity to, so this image positive that IGA built over the past 19 years doesn't take advantage of it in a way that we're simply going to make it a model for other export-credit agencies in the region. Now, if there are any more questions I'm willing to answer, I'm not taking your time anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4819	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am now giving a 60-minute break for lunch. So we'll continue at 2:30. Be precise, at 2:30. Thank you very much. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. We, do we have a quorum secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4821	We do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4822	We've got quorum, I'm asking MPs and ministers to take their seats, keep working. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a resolution on Sutorina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović The motion for a resolution was submitted in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure. The new Rules of Procedure do not provide for a reference to the motion for a resolution to consider to the committee responsible as was the case with the previous Rules of Procedure when the House could decide to submit the motion for a resolution to the committee responsible for consideration, although it is not excluded if the House decides to conduct a different kind of procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4824	...the chairman. ... first of all I want to thank the media, academic circles, respected professors, NGOs and many other individuals, who have updated this important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina. As one of the mandated promoters, on December 24th last year, I referred to the parliamentary procedure of the text of this resolution. I instructed him to, first of all, have the opportunity to establish fully and objectively all legal, historical, geographical and other facts about this issue, as well as to consult experts in the fields of law, history, geography and other sciences in this process. This revolution we are considering today is not a closed act, on the contrary, it is open. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments can also be made and it is possible, of course, to make certain adjustments. I must say in the beginning that it is my opinion, and I believe that our task, all elected officials, is in the legislative and executive power, to safeguard, above all, and defend the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is what citizens expect from us, so we also took an oath at the beginning and this mandate, and I remind you, among other things, that we should bear in mind the document adopted by the BiH presidency. It is therefore a document bearing the title – General Directions and Priorities for the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, which states, among other things, that it is one of the fundamental principles of all of us who are in the legislative and executive bodies to protect, defend and represent the interests of BiH. I therefore expect today to speak freely, reasonedly here in the highest legislative body on this resolution, without any pressure or presses. And my goal as a promoter, I believe all of us, is to build the best possible friendly and good neighbourly ties with Montenegro. And there's no dilemma. Of course, these friendly relations should be built, first of all, on the basis of facts based on clean accounts, and not on the harm of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. No country in the world builds good neighbourly relations by denying, without serious debates and arguments, its own-right territories. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have very strong arguments. The question is how many of them we're going to use. I will not speak here nor bother Parliament about how this territory came into the composition of the medieval Bosnian state, what was in the minister's peace in 1699, what was drawn by the Firefighter Peace in 1718, etc. At the Berlin Congress in 1878, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro gained their borders. Bosnia and Herzegovina also received two exits to the sea at the Berlin Congress, both south and north at the major international conference. Here's exactly the southern exit to the sea we're talking about today. That is not, this exit of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Sutorina area has not been changed since 1908, nor since the turbulence of 1912 and 1913, I mean the I and II Balkan War. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders remain the same after I and II of the Balkan War. Those limits remained that way after 1918. In the state of Slovenac, Hrvat and Srbin, 1918, the October-November month, Bosnia and Herzegovina had Sutorina. This state of SAS(?) Along with the Kingdom of Serbia, the first-December act of 1918 formed a new state – the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenac. Bosnia and Herzegovina has introduced these same borders I speak of into the Kingdom. The first constitution in the Kingdom, the Vidovdan Constitution is very clear. Article 135 again recognises the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 1922, the Kingdom divided into 33 powers of the Kingdom. Again Trebinje and this area remains from Mostar County to Mostar region comes and does not go to the Cetinj area. These same borders he admitted
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4825	Time, 20 minutes, exactly 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4826	that we inherited it from our ancestors and that we have the right to talk about it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If there's any need, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4827	Thank you very much. A colleague named Aleksandra Pandurević came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4828	I thank the chairman. Here, as Honorable counterpart Bećirović said, we should call on the expert public to make a statement on this. I don't believe it, I believe that he did do it thoroughly from the point of view of his profession and worked it out and here we are now after his exposure and I find some things much clearer to me, some of the information he's given here, but here we're neither historians, lawyers, or geographers. I repeat again, I want to believe that this argument is really true, because it is too serious things that Mr Bećirović said. I would also like to remind you that another initiative was sent from Trebinj back in 2008 to Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik, where it was asked to open the issue. And certain evidence and archival material have been presented, so let's say from these letters I also have a record from a session of the National Government of the People's Republic of BiH, dating back to May '46. years, where they've considered, at one point, this particular question and whether or not to give, cadastrian 52 books to exchange. And at that session, Minister Vlado Šegrt is in charge of seeing the mood of the people in Trebinj, whether to give up Sutorin Montenegro, or Herceg Novi, or not. Next thing you know, I really don't know, I don't have a return, I haven't been able to get the data yet. It is certainly a question that has been raised by the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so little is the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and that it is a serious diplomatic issue that needs to be closely approached. And that's why we're proposing, and that's the conclusions that will be proposed by the SDS Parliament's Club to keep the Constitutional Commission here in this House, here by the end of February, I think it's a sufficient deadline, a public debate, where people from the profession will be invited, people who have dealt with this, so let's see, to face arguments. And to extend the amendment phase to your resolution until this public debate, and to declare the House of Representatives on this resolution only after the public debate. I must also say that also in the reactions that were coming from Montenegro, I have not seen the dispute of the arguments brought out of both the scientific and professional public of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are multiple exits. One is the way out of here to let this ratification go. I don't think it should have come to this at all and that as it has been so far let it go further, for some good neighbourly relations. The second solution is to pull the brake a little bit, see how things really are. Maybe in that public debate and finds out that we're wrong and then we move on as far as we're concerned. If it is found that indeed all arguments are on the side of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have two exits again. One exit is to go to arbitration, another exit is to say ok, Montenegro has used Sutoria for so many years anyway, here we give them a gift to stay there, but I guess that's why we'll have some political concessions from Montenegro. But that's all, are the questions this House needs to make a decision on. And so I urge all my colleagues to take a very careful approach to this issue, to let it first and foremost speak of this matter by the profession and by the people who are directed to it. I can't believe that our State Border Commission has been so recklessly and irresponsiblely approached this issue and has made such a decision as it has made and made the proposal it has made, without any arguments. I can't believe the Council of Ministers, so here's Mr. Lagumdžija voted for this proposal, that everyone in the Council of Ministers also voted for it without having certain arguments as to why they voted. I think we should hear all sides. And so I call again on all my colleagues to support this conclusion of ours, to hold a public debate, and to listen to the State Commission for Borders and members of the Council of Ministers, but also to other people from the profession, historians, geographers, lawyers, etc., to see what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4829	Thank you. The word was requested by the foreign minister, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. And when a member of the Council of Ministers calls for a word, then he gets word and stops to debate in Parliament until he finishes. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4830	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. First, I want to thank those who suggested well-intentioned that I don't answer at all on this subject. I am sorry that there is no Minister Nović here, whose responsibility is the Commission's state or state border commission, which consists of representatives of several 53 state ministries and representatives of entity governments. It is a Commission that has practically existed for 15 years and has worked in three different compositions, with a smaller or greater success. I also want to say on this occasion that I really appreciate everything I've heard from previous debaters, and I think that the argument that we've heard of historical nature is really in one basic way exposed, and I can see that, as they say, that the people who did this were historians, I suppose Mrs. Pandurević also used historians some, because Mr. Ekmečić was a man who was a really great historian and who had pulled a lot of things out, whether, from a historical analogy in the early '80s, early 90s, neglecting the legal aspect of everything that happened afterwards. I'm sorry Mr Bećirović didn't have more time. I'm sure he'd talk a lot more about what's far more relevant than history today, and that's legal arguments. And I'm sorry there was no more chance of saying something about Badinter's commission, because that's the core of the whole problem. I want to make it clear in the beginning to the question whether Sutorina or even that part has the right to be part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to have two exits to the sea and international waters. From a geographical point of view, from a point of view of history, from a political point of view, so if you want and from a point of view of justice, the answer is yes. He's right from all those points of view. However, it is obvious here, and since we know that we will not be able to agree with Montenegro to have people give it to us, it is known that if we go this way to arbitration and to the International Court. And then, in the International Court, neither ekmečić, Bećirević, nor any other historians, mattered at that time primarily to lawyers. And it's a legal profession. Namely, why am I saying this? I repeat once again, my human, my political opinion, the view, is that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs for historical, political, geographical and other reasons to also have a way out of the sea. However, the question arises whether by calling on this, by neglecting the legal aspect, we are entering an adventure that I am obliged to have in Parliament, that I should draw their attention to the Members of Parliament. And I'm sure what I'm saying right now is that most people here know it. I took an oath like you, and I'm not talking to you, is it, Šefik, this meeting because it's wise political, but because I took an oath like you, like all of you. Namely, what's this about? The key to the whole story is to see in one serious way what our place and role is in this situation, that is, whether we can bring ourselves into a position where, at one point, in any way, we give Parliament a doubt, let alone a resolution to say that all of our rights are derived from what is not the Badinter Commission. Why am I saying this? And Kolega Bećirović is right when he quoted it, and I think it's true, I don't think it's true, I know it's true, the position of the 3rd position, the 3rd position, or the 2nd and the 1st position. Badinter's commission. Namely, you see, Bosnia and Herzegovina received international legal subjectivity by recognising the countries, first the EU, then other countries and entered the UN on the basis of the fact that a referendum was held on 1 March on the basis of the fact that the referendum draws its legal basis in the opinion of the Badinter Commission. The opinion of the Badinter Commission, the 10 opinions of the Badinter Commission speak, from the first to find that Yugoslavia is in the process of disolution, to the last and the last to talk about the succession, with individuality being told about what it is to do to gain independence. As well as Badinter as his opinion number two spoke of self-determination. And then it is directly on the question whether certain peoples in some former republics have the right to self-determination, which includes new borders, was very clear and explicit, said that the right to self-determination, human rights and freedoms all have, but without changing borders at the time of independence. I repeat, if anyone finds me, some science doctor, that the Badinter Commission's report mentions the AVNOJ boundaries as the borders of BiH, I will give him my PhD in computer science, and let him give me his. So, Opinion number 2 says, I quote - 54 right to self-determination, human rights and freedom, but without changing the limits at a time of independence in brackets (out of postsidetis jus) unless states agree otherwise. On the same January 11th, opinion number 3 is also issued, called the Borders. I quote, even for the sake of the bookmarks, since the Dayton Constitution has been written to me in English, we have not yet agreed on how our languages read – Opinion 2. item 1 says, I have already quoted it, because of the stenogram, the magnetogram –... /quotes in English/, in brackets (...) /continues in English/. What I just said was a translation. The 3rd position of counterpart Bećirović, Opinion 3. read only the first sentence. The first sentence was read correctly. It reads - lines between republics cannot be changed except by free agreement. The lines of the delimitation of the Republic, there are limits protected by international law, in brackets (outsidetis). The lines between the republics, so... (speaking in English) and then it's said... (again in English) speaks. And I, my friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, because here I have everything and friends and friends and ladies and friends and gentlemen, only in the last seven days has he been involved in this. I've studied this famous essyditis joke, for only one reason, which, therefore, I've participated in this as a member of the Council of Ministers and raised my hand believing that 15-year-old work was impossible to do without anyone remembering Sutorine in these 15 years, as our not historic but legal right. Why am I saying this, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends? We are obliged, we are obliged to guard ourselves against superficiality, politics and populism and ignorance and to build a future on patriotism with responsibility and knowledge. We have a pigeon in our hand with this. One man told me, if it's you, Zlatko, you want to let the dove go to the branch for the sparrow's sake. I told him, you're not the only one who told me something like that, so don't yell... so one man paraphrased you and told me like this. I told him -- listen, we now have a pigeon in our hand, and if we open Pandora's box without paying attention to Badinter, we can end up with an eagle over your head, or on a branch, if it makes you feel any better. Why am I saying this? Thought number four. Badinter is the opinion that makes us here in this House today, among other things. Without opinion number 2, 3, 4, and 1, this Parliament would not exist, as it would not exist without much else. That's why it's a capital matter for me to do this today, and I propose, starting with the principle, I will give this in writing, Mr. Chairman, starting with the principle that we will not and will not give ours, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and international law, with the primary goal of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our country, I guess that's not controversial, we have sworn, the House of Representatives finds: 1. The Badinter Commission report is an unquestioned part of international law with the power of international judgment, and as one of the foundations of the Dayton Agreement, has the right of the championship over all other acts of that kind, guaranteeing the non-questionability of the territorial integrity and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina within its internationally recognised borders. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to make new, natural, together with the State Commission for Borders, a new, new, natural, three comprehensive primary legal, primarily legal repeat, expert analyses with consequences for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the point of view of preserving its internationally recognised borders with Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. On these grounds, the House of Representatives will organise a public debate to sign the State Borders Agreement with neighbours. I'm turning my attention one more time, the famous ear of possidetis means, there are lawyers here who know it much better than I do, and they didn't have to prepare for this, he means that those boundaries you had and owned at the moment of recognition that that's what you own and in the future. In other words, the 55 borders we owned in our books, the cadastrian books, on which we had executive and judicial authority at the moment of recognition, that these are our borders that we continue to own. On this basis, the countries of the former Yugoslavia have mutually recognised each other. Opening up, denying it even something that looks like denying it, we're in a position not to admit what none of us asked. We are in a position to ask the Školj of Genesis, looking for Sutorina to lose the Školj, because the Školj is, in fact, in the books of Neuma Catastrian, not the Stone. And that's why the Školj in BiH is on the principle of Badinter, the one I'm talking about right now. And Sutorina in the books of Montenegro, you know. And by opening this question we come into a position to lose both of us and without each other, where at arbitration, with all due respect, who can we have as an ally when we call to the Berlin Congress? Slovenia, which was not then, did not exist. A Serbia who was, as they say, nako. We can think of Albania as an ally, because they were much, much bigger, and that's what drones were flying about. We can't have an ally for neither Bulgaria nor Romania, because they were much smaller, I won't even talk about Greece. We would have been allied to Turkey, I have no doubt about it, but can we, in front of the European Court, rely internationally on those allies who, I'm sure, are of those we have, that they might help us. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too big a thing and I'm really asking you to consider these conclusions that I've made. I ask you because now that the story of a possible new Dayton Agreement is opened, enters with unpacked borders, enters it with a questionable Badineter that no one in this House has ever made questionable. Get into it, even if I say Bog help us, it's small. So I ask you to approach this professionally, patrioticly, in accordance with the oath we took. We're not going to give ourselves, we're not asking for anything, we're asking for what international rights guarantee us, because the justice of historical and geographical and political facts is unfortunately in this unjust world much, much more powerful, only when you're strong. And otherwise it's powerful that only international law can protect you, I'm afraid of us here. I'm sorry I took so long. I was obliged to say that for the oath I took, Šefik. What they say, so let this Parliament say differently, I will live with it in the hope that in the end we will have a pigeon in our hand rather than an eagle over our heads.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4831	Thank you, Minister Lagumdžija. You've stayed within the limits of that time that was scheduled for the minister, maybe a minute, two, but that's almost irrelevant to this kind of discussion. The word is, Mr. Denis Bećirović asked for the replica. Here you go, Denise. We need as many facts as possible and that's the point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4832	The Honorable Chairman, it's called replica, but I've come to explain a few things. First, I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for coming to the session today. And here we have, whether, at present, two ministers, there is also the chairman of the Council of Ministers in this debate. I think it's a good thing they're at Parliament's session today, so it's good to welcome the courage to discuss such large issues in the technical mandate, this Council of Ministers. It's not true that we've been dealing with Sutori's experts since yesterday for many years. About Sutorina they wrote, spoke, etc., a famous expert like Prof. Dr. Omer Ibrahimagić, Dr. Muriz Spahić, Suad Kurtćehajić, Anton Jekauc and many other respected scientific workers. There are, when it comes to this subject, numerous arguments of legal nature, historical nature, geographical nature, economic nature and many experts spoke of it for weeks and months and before this 56-session of Parliament. And we, as a House of Representatives, are not asking but rather not to rush, not to break this issue into the technical mandate of this Council of Ministers, but to seriously open this debate and that in the end everyone knows very well what they are raising their hand for. I agree with the Honorable Minister, this is not a personal question, and in this story neither ekmečić nor Bećirović nor Đukanovići nor Lagumdžije are important facts and arguments here. And we want to talk about these facts and arguments. I understand the good part of the statement of the Honorable Minister, and I believe that, in the best of intentions, he is presenting some arguments about it, and we want to talk in a reasoned way. Badinter's commission is also mentioned, and I'm running out of time in the discussion, so I haven't had enough time, and yet I still don't have enough time to do it exactly, but I'm going to use what I have. So it's very clear what's said
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4833	Time's up, it's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4834	in Opinion number 3 of the Badinter Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4835	Time's up, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4836	now international law knows something called applying the principle.../speaking in English/. There is therefore a certain hierarchy of acts and facts of the country of the predecessor. What does that mean in international law? Under number one, the most important acts are the central federal authorities on the demarcation of territorial units that were in place at the time of their acquisition.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4837	Mr. Bećirović, you've already been over a minute, so I have an obligation to ask you, you can pick up something in another replica later, so go ahead, but I'm asking you to respect this, because I have a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4838	I respect the Rules of Procedure, but I should have just said the key things about Badinter's commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4839	So just say that one key thing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4840	But I understand your position and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4841	Now, please, uh, you can pick up later so you can continue in the second line, use that, remember what you said about not being denied what you have to say, but let me respect this Rules of Procedure. 57 We're going with discussion now. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović answered and has a word. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4842	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chair, colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all for my first call. So, I'm not going to go into the measure of things, I'm not going to talk about arguments for and against, in recent times we've been able to find out a lot, learn, hear and listen, I want to point out another detail of the Treaty which is my incentive for this first in connection with Sutorin. So, given the fact that the international right to border contracts, we all know, attaches a special place to all other interstate agreements, and that in the event of the distinction between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, we clearly have, and that, I would say, at the very least, a historical and legal misunderstanding that should necessarily be removed, I believe that this issue, which is the subject of the resolution, does not only deserve the extremely serious institutional approach of all the institutions involved in this process, but I would say a certain individual responsibility for all of us in terms of weighing for-of-no, useful-judgment, this which others have spoken of possible or not. As a result, I would like to say that I will not only support the Resolution on Sutorina but also try to extend the amendment to the necessary review of some of the details of the Treaty, i.e. reviewing another part of the Treaty of the established border. For Resolution, I will therefore vote for at least two reasons, for the following reasons. First, because I believe that among the two neighbours, and everyone here will agree, the neighbouring countries should not, in the name of good neighbourly relations, be concerned, even, could be said, with those between the lines in mind. In that name, it would be good to insist on real expertise and the requirement to remove existing ambiguities, which means that the Treaty, that the Treaty must be joined more Meritably than the existing Commission for Borders has done. I mean, since this is a serious interstate issue and, in this case, extremely remote, conflicting interests of the two countries, each part of the space should be retained or desired, it does not seem to me to be a happy or adequate approach to handing over the case to the Commission for the border that practically makes nine people, most of them elected many years ago, even though they are all experts, last night I listened to it from the President of the Commission, and not just the civil servants delegated from several state ministries. The responsibility is great on them too, and the Treaty, I have it here and the Treaty and part of the map on what else I'm going to add, is partly unclear, in part unspeakable, is not now an opportunity to analyse it and in this seriously insufficient, what went to the Council of Ministers and what went to the Presidency, and it is missing, and incomplete. So, I think it is important that the Treaty on the Borders with Montenegro be reviewed as a whole, and the question of Sutorina to be resolved in accordance with the requirements set out in the Resolution and in God in accordance with what I heard here, we generally agree on what this should do. Another reason why I will support the resolution and underline the need to issue a state border treaty with Montenegro, to give the issue special importance. The State Border Treaty, as is known, usually contains two accompanying contributions – text description of the border and topographic map, all of course related to the rules of the profession. However, the draft of this contract, and perhaps there is a particular problem here somewhere, which has also appeared to the Council of Ministers, is not complete in this respect because these articles do not summarise the text of the Treaty at all, and that is that. Although the Treaty itself mentions itself as border documents and lists border documents which are part of the Treaty. I think it's a serious failure here by the Border Commission and I don't know if it's just a failure. And another reason why the Treaty in question, not only in the act concerning 58 to Sutorin, is that the Council of Ministers should re-examine it more seriously before sending it into further proceedings. I would also point out that, as it was not, the documentation was complete in this respect, that it was complete by following the elaborate, that it was bound, it could be clearly seen, for example, that the same Commission, and what I'm saying is more encouraging me to support the Sutorina issue because it becomes questionable and something else, for some of its reasons, so it could be seen that Montenegro was practically left behind, not to say donated, 42 ha of the forest terrain, although the President of the Commission says it is 700 metres of the border, but that does not mean anything, but that space when it enters someone's property and, by way of derogation from the established limit, in Sutorina is a questionnaire, but here is our border, which has been from Austria in that area. How could that question happen? Here I have a map here, so Montenegro, again for some of its reasons, has challenged 84 ha of space in the Municipality of Foca, and then our Commission has compromisedly decided to half 42 of them, 42 ha of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here's how it happened that the Montenegrin side got used, so here's ours, and Bosnia and Herzegovina on behalf of good neighbourly relations, we keep talking about when it comes to Sutorina, relations, or who knows for what reasons, these days media and the public can hear counterarguments, we don't even need to check if it still belongs to something that was once legally and historically hers. That's what I'm going to support the resolution with. And with regard to establishing the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am using the amendment between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, if there is now an opportunity, at the Resolution on Sutorina, which is very short: - The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, I will deliver it, asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to form an independent expert commission, of course that public debate which counterpart Pandurević spoke about, which will determine the correctness of the Treaty of established border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro at the border of the municipalities of Foca and Plje – the area of Malinjak. Thank you very much, I will deliver this amendment in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4843	Thank you very much. We were supposed to finish this session by 5:30 because of some obligations. I think we've lost a lot of time today at the agenda, so if I didn't cut the time I'd ask you just to take a little care of these discussions, you have the right all of you to discuss 10 minutes for each item of the agenda, but it's possible to self-initiatively consciousness without my intervention on some small scale, so please take care of it, I'd ask you in fact. The word is from Mrs. Borjana Krišto, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4844	Thank you very much. Here under this item of the agenda – Resolution on Sutorina we heard a lot and I would in no way question that we can bring some resolutions to this House, propose some initiatives, because this is the business right of every MP. However, I can't help but say that I would really like today and at the future sessions of this House to discuss legal projects, the reforms that await us because Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a difficult economic and social situation, so I said that because it seems to me that the debate on this issue will in some way agree on both social, political and other opportunities and relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems particularly to me that 59 of us have heard in the introduction and from the promoters, from the minister, through certain discussions, that we do not have certain facts and me in preparation for this session on this issue, what I have seen seems to have been resolved and that the basic acts for resolving this issue have been the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion of the Arbitral Commission for the former Yugoslavia, or called the Banditor's Commission. So the task of these two committees was to identify, i.e. set boundaries between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro at the time of the recognition of these two states, which is actually done. I am surprised that the proposal for a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro is being rejected, in some way, through these and other facts and is required by this Resolution to reject the proposal for a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and that it is unfounded, that it is being asked, that it is actually harmful to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there are no reasons where there are and what are the reasons for the damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth here is also being discussed in this Resolution and the arguments are being used by historical facts that really need to be checked and supported. It is also required to form a special commission that would deal with this issue, and yet as if no competent institution, or the Committee on State Borders, has even dealt with this issue and that the minister himself has confirmed it, no one has mentioned the past 10 or 15 years. Therefore, for such an important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is primarily political, and as far as stability is concerned, I would say, so would the sustainability of all because this issue raises many questions, i.e. all issues concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina, including its name. I would say, and I think it is necessary that we all have a lot more facts and arguments so that quality of these things can be discussed, and yet I say everything in the interest of the stability and sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country of three constituent peoples and citizens living in it. Therefore, on the basis of this, I will seek to shorten my debate, I would suggest one conclusion that would ask the Council of Ministers and the competent Commission dealing with the issue of the state border to provide us with one full information on this issue, which would certainly include all the problems involved in establishing the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, means also around this territory, so that we can then, on the basis of such information, know whether we need one resolution, in what form and whether we should adopt it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4845	Thank you very much, Mrs. Krišto. Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4846	Thank you, President. Here's to saving time and not thinking about which part I'm very much in, I'm going to be very short, and I'm going to add what's not said or important and it's creating the wrong picture. First, I cannot reconcile with this, nor those qualifications that the State Commission worked unseriously, much less agree that the Council of Ministers worked in the technical mandate dealt with the Treaty on Borders with Montenegro. The predecessors said how many commissions there are and get there in some way, what was at least placed in the media, in the media of these experts, that there were some people, civil servants who had no idea, but that's what they came up with, Đuro Pucar Stari and his relatives before, and that's about it. There's no unseriousness, and I can't accept that there was inconclusion in this work. He would understand all these discussions and polemics and ask for additional documentation and everything else to be considered here, it will come in turn, the border treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. The Council of Ministers finished its job, confirmed the unanimous material that 60 delivered, was delivered by the State Commission. On several occasions considered at, in stages as far as it came, a technical dispute appeared and he was working between the borders of the Municipality of Foca and Pljevi, but it was achieved in the Committee, I don't know what the problem is when it's achieved, means some agreement, I guess we're all heroes when we're about to achieve something and so we're going to pick up political points. I'm not going to repeat what the distinguished Mrs. Krišto said and correctly say what the basis is. Sutorina's territory at the time of international recognition was an integral part of the territory of the then-Montenegro and there was no basis to start any talks on the territory as controversial. That's a fact. With all this information, i.e. disinformation, the media menu does not want to be referred to at all because we spent a lot of time considering one act at a time. This is finished, what has been agreed and initialled between the two committees is also a textual description of the movement of the state border, topographic maps, 19 sheets with a drawn border line which are the contributions of the Treaty on Borders. And quite normal when this comes after the Presidency here for ratification that everything will be taken care of. But I'm just saying something, because there's been a little talk about it, from war to international recognition, from World War II, it's not said here that the parliament of Montenegro is 08.08.'45. He brought Oluku about a new division of steaks, which is part of Montenegro's Sutorin. The Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the following acts, regulations, laws: Regulation on the designation of the area of the People's Committees and the establishment of the headquarters of the local and national delegations of '45, the Law on the Administrative and Territorial division of the People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina of '59. And all of these acts are defined by the borders of BiH without Sutorina. The Dayton border of Bosnia and Herzegovina was accepted without Sutorina, and last year it was completed, here is the freshest thing if memory serves, a list of BiH residents without any objections to the Trebinje Municipality's census circles, which also did not contain Sutorin. The territory of Sutorin should be said so, and it is not courage but a little to tell the truth, the territory of Sutorina at the time of the international recognition of the two states, this was spoken by Mr Lagumdžija and Mrs Krišto, was an integral part of the territory of the former Republic of Montenegro and there was no basis to start any talks on that territory as controversial. Sutorina is an integral part of the Republic of Montenegro. It is already said in the discussion of what it means to open in this way something that has been professionally and factually done, last procedure, tomorrow we will listen to two high-ranking representatives of the two leaders and all those congratulations for the work done so far, so we still need the Presidency and Parliament, then we should say that we are factually patriotic. And I can't accept this calling to some fears, I don't know who's afraid, what we're afraid of, who needs to be warned about some fears and called out for attitudes. For me, it's an obligation for all of us to talk about the truth, and speaking of the truth, then we need to say these arguments that are documented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4847	... reported by Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4848	Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, dealing with this question, I've come to some conclusions, and they're about to, so you don't take too much time, contained in the next one. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a full right to problem the issue because the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have never made a decision to give up this territory. They have made decisions on the organisation of a country without that territory, but these are two different types of decisions. And as for that, therefore, nothing would be disputed for me, I would have performed very openly if it hadn't been for what the Honorable Minister Lagumdžija said in his own way. And I call on you to take this part of the discussion seriously into account because Bosnia and Herzegovina was recognised by the United States and the EU on 6 April 1992 retroactively with the date of entry into force of the 61 referendum, that is on 6 March '92. the years within its internationally recognised borders, which are the borders on which the executive and judicial authorities are at, so the administrative and judicial authorities have exercised power in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sutorina at that time was not, at that moment, me, Škuljevi, at that moment and the top of the Kleka peninsula were, I still don't know, so the answer to the question of what it would mean if we opened up and questioned the principle on the basis of which the international borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina were recognised. And I need an answer to that question, too, and I need an answer to the whole public. And the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, like all of us here in this room, I think, thinks the following way, we would like Sutorin and we feel this historic injustice that has obviously happened, but we would never get into this process if we were to suffer more damage than the one we have at this point. And that is the essence and philosophy of the moment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located. That's why I think the Bosnian Herzegovina public must be completely informed of every possible move we make, as well as the consequences of any possible move. And that is why I think that Mrs Pandurević has made one correct proposal that can be combined with the proposals issued by Minister Lagumdžija, and Mrs Vajzović, and Mrs Krišto, only in Mrs Pandurević's proposal is missing in the second position two or three words. She is seeking a public debate before the Constitutional Commission, and that is fine, setting a deadline, and in the second position says that a statement on this resolution is being postponed. And there's only one more thing missing to suspend the further procedure of the State Border Treaty until we're done, so that debate and then it continues, I think that's supposed to be. And I would ask her to complete that point of two of her proposals, because I don't think we should adopt a resolution in the text that suspends the Treaty and everything that's been done, but I don't think we could even continue at this point with the ratification process until we clear these things up here. I think it's better to do this in Parliament, this is a people's house, than in the Council of Ministers, to include as widely as possible the general public and the Constitutional Commission can do it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4849	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4850	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4851	Thank you very much. With no more reports of me, the word came from a respected representative, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4852	So, at the end of this debate, I want to thank all the debaters from both the Council of Ministers and the MPs. I want to make it very clear that today we are not working on unpacking the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina but to confirm those borders on which we have ownership rights. As the promoter of this Resolution, I accept the amendment that has been delivered by the distinguished Professor Hanka Vajzović, and I am not running away from this fact that some MPs have suggested that we may take a short break and formulate another conclusion that would talk about it, and the essence of this Resolution is that we should review these things, that everyone really learns all the facts about this issue and that only then we make decisions. I really respect all the clubs, all the views expressed, I'm here these days and today I see that the only two parties that are against this explicitly resolution of the SNSD, which is unfortunately not in the hall right now, and HDZ. I respect both SNSD and HDZ's position not to accept it, but they should also respect the attitudes and attitudes that have been heard today. 62 I said something to say about this attitude three, in Opinion number three. The Badinter Commission, above all in that section relating to the principle of.../speaking in English/, the international law in applying this principle knows a certain hierarchy of acts and facts of the country of the predecessor. What does international law say? Prod number one. – The most important acts are the central federal government's acts on the demarcation of territorial units that were in place at the time of their independence. What does that mean? The international law also says that – deciding the last act is if it has replaced the previous one. We need to know that the last distinction was done on AVNOJ, and no one can deny it. If there is any other distinction at the moment, I am withdrawing the text of this Resolution. This Parliament must know that, but also the public. International law says under number 2. – It is only in the absence of acts by the federal government that the possible agreements of the authorities of the two territorial units are taken into account. Since we have such an act of central federal authority, we don't need to talk about this to anyone else. And using this time I really must say that the scandalous argument that has been withdrawn these days and in the media about if Bosnia and Herzegovina gets Sutorina that Serbia will have a way out of the sea. Those who draw that argument are unaware of what they're doing. I think with that argument then someone sold people to Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Foche and Trebinje, we no longer have a problem with Sutorin. And I can't believe that this argument in public tends to be really scandalous for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4853	Thank you very much. We've got two more short replicas, so we'll close the debate. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović and then Mr. Nikola Lovrinović and that's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4854	Thank you very much. Since at the beginning of my earlier presentation I have just stressed that we also have individual responsibility in terms of weighing for and against, useful-damaging, possibly or not, I have not been able to reach that stage of arbitration, but the need to, in our circumstances internally, say, clear things up and prepare this issue better. Since the Honorable Chairman has spoken just like that, let me suggest that, possibly with this proposal of a short break, he will face as the conclusion we would have voted for. Maybe that would be the best thing right now, I think everything you just said is the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4855	Thank you very much. Mrs Pandurević has already corrected her conclusion in line with this discussion, it is signed and it comes before all MPs. Mr. Lovrinović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4856	Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4857	Lovrinović, that's what I said. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4858	It seemed different to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4859	No, it's not, Lovrinović, I remember it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4860	I welcome all present. And I'm reporting to the chairman for the first time, so I don't know which eyes Mr. Bećirović saw who would vote, and he saw that the SBB would vote, if it wasn't there, how they would vote for it. And as far as I can see, the thing is that we're voting on conclusions or amendments, not resolutions, so I'd ask him to look at other eyes. And I suggest, therefore, that the amendment that you have proposed is made in a special form, not to add to the conclusions which Mrs Pandurević has made, or to the amendments, to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4861	As far as I'm concerned, it's all the same, I'm here at the request of Mrs. Pandurević, here with the secretary, then it was taken to her to sign it because she's the author, it's the same thing, so you can consider it common, whatever you want, don't formalize it, it's essential to us. Mr. Mirsad Mešić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4862	Mr. Chairman, it's not a replica, it's one proposal, but here's how I didn't know how to apply. So, I suggest that the presidents of the clubs together with kolegij give that conclusion and that after the break we discuss that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4863	Thank you very much, Mirsade. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4864	Well, namely the contract procedure is already in a certain procedure in the presidency. So now, do we want to get more complete information when such a contract comes to us and do we, in our conclusion today, stop such a process that is already further away, so I'm not sure. That's why I'd like it to be separated, so let's vote on it. And the procedure, therefore, the presidency can only stop if it wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4865	Okay, thank you, Mr. Lovrinović. The replica again, Mr. Denis, vi've already exhausted the replicas. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4866	It's not a replica. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4867	Come on, let's do business, come on, but please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4868	Request, we're looking for a 30-minute break, and in that break to take advantage of...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4869	I'd like to ask you if we can just finish, I mean we don't have time for breaks, please don't, so I'm asking you don't take a break, let's work, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4870	The proposal, therefore, is, Mr. Chairman, to constructively use this break in this pause in a way that the College, the promoter and club presidents agree on one conclusion that would then be offered for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4871	I think it's, I think it's a lot of 30 minutes, can I take a 10 minute break? There's a 10 minute break. An extended college in this room over here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, please wait a minute in the O.R., please wait for us to respect our colleague, wait a minute. Take your seats, the break hasn't taken effect yet. Mr. Zaim Backović. After that, we'll conclude the debate and give you 10 minutes off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4873	In the overall discussion here... suggested a number of conclusions. I don't see that we have any conclusions on the table proposed by Minister Lagumdžija, we didn't get them. Well, I didn't get them on the table, because we have those conclusions, so there's that conclusion yet. Nothing else, let's see where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4874	Thank you very much. So the debate is closed. Break 10 minutes. I'm calling an extended college in the O.R. 2/2. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that after the session of the Extended College, we have reached agreement on this point of the agenda, but it will certainly have to be stated by the Pandurević, because what I have proposed certainly implies the role of Parliament and in this procedure of concluding the Treaty, because without Parliament's approval, there is no ratification of the agreement. So, we agreed that the conclusions read: – To be in debt, to suggest that the conclusions are in fact – the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked with organising a public debate on the status of Sutorina and the House of Representatives to deliver the final debates and delaying a statement on the proposal for a resolution on Sutorina until the end of the public debate until the amendment phase is extended. So that would be the conclusion. We're the Dom that's going to lead that debate, we're the Dom that's going to have a chance to discuss the contract when it comes, and we know when we have to do what we have to do. So it's all in our hands, nothing's out of our hands, so this third conclusion, if it's disputed, is actually too much. We're moving on with the session. We now have the agenda point proposed by Mr Denis Bećirović, which reads, Ad. 5. Mr Denis Bećirović's proposal, which reads - Discussing the pressure on freedom of information and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the police search and blocking of the Klix portal.ba
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4877	The Honorable Chairman. Given that I've already been speaking part of the agenda on this subject, I'm going to try to shorten my exposure now. So, the discussion material on this agenda point has been delivered. I think that the legislative authority, in this case, the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, should manifest itself against the increasingly frequent occurrences of intimidation and threats posed to the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that, I think it would be good to adopt two conclusions as part of this agenda. I propose – That the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accept the evaluations and conclusions contained in the press release of the Council of BiH, which are delivered in materials for this agenda point. Another conclusion – The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge, within the Council of Ministers, of course, especially the Ministry of Security, to submit to the House of Representatives, within 30 days at the latest, information on the occurrences of pressure and intimidation, when it comes to freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4878	Mr. Bećirović, just deliver it to us in writing. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4879	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored guests. I, of course, support what Mr Bećirović was talking about, to prepare a comprehensive information on press pressure cases. However, I will not talk about some, perhaps for the public less important media, such as portals of a local character or a regional character, which unfortunately experience very unpleasant situations and what is neither spoken nor written at all, nor unfortunately judicial institutions give their final word. Here are specific cases in Brcko, for example, in Zenica, etc., etc. But I want to talk about another aspect, which is institutional pressure on the media. Why am I saying this? We have a situation to tell us the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Regulatory Agency, which should be a regulator, enormously high license fees, actually puts us in a position that small media cannot exist, cannot survive because they are self-financed. They don't live on a TV subscription, they don't have any other sources of income than commercials. And in concrete cases, here's the Transport and Communications Commission actually discussed the complaint of one of the media, where the Regulatory Agency for Communications, as a regulator, as an institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not responding, in fact we have administrative silence, which is why the unsolved status of director of this very important institution, because we actually had a situation there to have 5, 6 or 7, and I don't know how many years, v.d. Director, we have a situation today that we don't even have V.D. anymore. We don't know who represents that institution at all. That's why we have administrative silence, and here's a kind of pressure on the media that doesn't solve the needs they have set before this institution. Therefore, I think that this regulator should seriously deal with the levels of license fees, for media houses which, I say, are less important to the public, but are important to that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory that they cover. Because it is obvious that in this way, the one who currently exercises power or has a parliamentary majority, that is the previous assembly, the previous composition of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the parliamentary majority that had power and showed, because they have amended the Communication Act, so to speak, by the number of votes. And that's not good, because this is the regulator that needs to regulate this space in one legitimate way and not say a completely independent way, but independent of the daily political interference in the work of this institution. And another fact that should be taken into account, perhaps even through conclusions, which is actually, we have a situation that the public, i.e. space, is flooded with various illegal portals that are not known to be the editor-in-chief, or who is the owner, or who is the responsible person, and you can read anything. This morning there were speeches about it, actually very inappropriate, ugly comments. Here, today we've had a very ugly debate that has resulted in the abandonment of two political parties of this House session. We want to make order in the media space. We don't want to upset the public with some misinformation, packing, and not to say maybe even uglier things. We want to actually, perhaps, through the amendments to the Communication Act to the regulator, here is maybe the Regulatory Agency for Communications, to record, at the very least, who are responsible for certain internet portals which unfortunately, you will see serious portals have... has who is the editor-in-chief, who is the owner, etc., etc. But unfortunately, we're swamped today with wild, illegal portals that we don't know who they are or what they are or what their goal is, etc. Here, thank you so much. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4880	Thank you very much. Mr. Senad Šepić. Have Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4881	Here, I welcome this initiative, therefore, and I call on all my colleagues to do so today, I would say very clearly that we condemn all of this in the past and with concrete examples of Klix, but also all other examples of attacks on free journalism in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This building here and this institution here is actually the right place to send... and unequivocal messages. So I support this conclusion to request information from the Council of Ministers, to provide all this information within 30 days. But I would suggest another conclusion, therefore, to oblige the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions to provide us at least twice a year, to provide information on the state and freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because through one such activity, we will show how clearly we as a society have a clear relationship and a clear view that no developed society and European society can be built unless there is clearly certain freedom of the media in that society. And of course, we will be best able to answer these things that my colleague Mehmedović was talking about. When we have that kind of information, then we'll see where and in the system there are some failures, so we'll be able to define them in that way. I'll write this conclusion, you'll have it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4882	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Let Mr. Zaim Backović prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4883	I thank the chairman. I think we're all a little short on responsibilities. And to those of us who are involved in politics, so perhaps often, perhaps I am among them, we make some difficult statements, even to the media. But that's why it's the defamation law. Today we have such a law that it is possible to state as a journalist that an anonymous source has told you something, and make it all up, call for protection... says an anonymous conversator. And no one answers, and someone in the justice of Bog suffers both moral and whatever, and the family suffers, damage. I think that perhaps we should be one of the tasks of this House to deal with the Law on the Protection of Defamation. In the case of the Klix portal, if anyone was in the grip of that portal, then I'm free to say it was me. Two years ago, I also filed a criminal report to the Republika Srpska MUP for threats, meaning thousands of threats were made on the portal, the Republika Srpska's High-Technological Crime Unit. I didn't get any feedback on that application until today. That's why I'm really amazed at the rate of reaction in the case of the "Two Pockets" affair. If that video is mounted then Klix needs it, but it's an investigative institution's job, to answer because it's wrong. But if the video is authentic, and the minister of the Republika Srpska MUP, now formerly, Mr. Jovičić said it was an authentically mounted video, I think. It says in a statement by the Republika Srpska MUP and that the prime minister has been tapped over a long period of time. So, if it's an authentic video, and I believe 68 is, and I saw that TV N1 seemed to me engaged by an expert from Slovenia, then certainly the Klix portal was protecting what was actually a public service obligation, which, unfortunately, should have done RTRS and not. He protected what is called public interest. And because of that, if that's how it was, that he was protecting the public interest, it went the way it went. And of course everyone, not those who don't just agree with that kind of treatment, but all those who care about this being a democratically arranged country, should condemn such a procedure. And we condemn him. But here, to remove and remove all these dilemmas, we suggest a conclusion, to call the BiH Forensics Agency, which we have, to do analysis and expertise on that video, that finally someone after all this time says whether this video is authentic or not. And to get to know the results of his analysis, expertise and competent investigative authorities. Because if the video is authentic and let's believe it is, it's a serious crime that raises the House of Peoples' legitimacy, because in that case delegates in the Republika Srpska House are also elected to buy the votes of MPs. So maybe this is a test for all the institutions where we need to show our democratic maturity and capacity, to face problems in this society and show little responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4884	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4885	In the overall activities that have been carried out and what is called police activities, the way they have been carried out, they have been carried out as part-time as in some directed film, as in something that needs to be well presented and done by the public so that she is upset. In addition, we have finally experienced the coordination of the work of those called police agencies, because we have experienced that without a problem the Agency from Republika Srpska is doing its job in the Federation space. I hope it comes to life in the whole area, but not this way, but that it will live where real crime is and where there is a real general destruction of this country. But let's get back to what happened to Klix. In order to carry out the actions, I guess it is necessary to carry out advances that will say whether what has been given to the public on the basis of an insight, rather than just Klix, as far as I'm aware of dozens, hundreds of portals, television and radio stations and so on, is that true, and only on that basis to bring judgments which and measures to implement towards someone. We have a law to do with it, the Defamation Act. Why, when I'm a citizen, I don't press charges and get, where, how and how such information came about. Mr. Džaferović in the previous term, so I'm here publicly speaking, is it, it's public, I've never negotiated with anyone about any breakthrough, because I've never been, this is the first time in my life, a professional. In 14 years of parliamentary work, I've always been employed by my firm. The portals also published a newspaper, the media that your president gave me a lot of money because I supported the government in the previous term in the Sarajevo Canton. When I sued, the sources were not presented, and I said, give the sources, I'll sue the sources, I'll drop the charges against you. The sources were not presented, and they dragged me three years in courts, pointless stories, and eventually persuaded 1,500 KM. I say in advance, all the lawsuits I get now go to Dom Ljubica Ivezić and go to the House for carefree old people in Nejarići. 69 But let's get back to this problem. I don't think Mrs. or Miss, I don't know if she's mad, Pandurević said one thing that should concern us very much. It is the full freedom of the media, the full protection of the integrity and personality of every person, but every person. That means the person someone's talking about. Those who tell us about total freedom, if you remember, that's exactly 4.5 years ago now, have extinguished the world's largest tabloid, only with one lawsuit, "San“, britanski „San", just because it's been false about someone. And this one got it, but it was such a verdict that the tabloid had to be shut down. Mr. Mehmedović is talking about the flood of the portal. Yeah, flood portals, floods don't know what they don't anymore, but it's very hard to control because they're server units all over the world. They're not just in BiH, and we have absolute freedom of access to information through that electronic medium or the Internet, however you like. We should do it another way, because when it comes to the origin, we should regulate the Law on the Truthfulness of Information and the Law that will regulate the status of those who are slandered. On the other hand, fully protect freedom of access to information about each of us, the typewriter. Because you have a situation where as a citizen, as an MP, as an interested person, I request access to some information. No matter how much we have the Freedom of Access Act, I'd like to see, we're all sitting here, how much of us we get based on our request for some information. To date, on the 14 requests so far submitted, I have not received a single answer or the answer is zero. They just say, official secret, business secret, state secret. Imagine, a state secret agreement on the price of gas in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'm curious about how it's possible. You know the importer, you know the distributor, you know this guy, you know everything, but you can't get a contract that's a gold five-pointer on your head. Yeah, yeah, gold five-pointer, I have a reason to say this, I can explain to you what that gold five-pointer means. I absolutely condemn the procedure that has been done under the Klix portal, regardless, and as Miss Pandurević says, I have suffered from that portal and I have suffered a lot of attacks, but I say absolutely support the freedom of the media, absolutely support the truthfulness of the information, I absolutely support to protect the dignity of the endangered categories, not just journalists here, that we are now not listing how much there is, and I am initiating that it is working on the adoption of a new law that will protect citizens. In what way it is, let's rewrite it, rewrite the law of one of the EU countries, nothing else. Is that French, French, is that German, German. Since we have legislation here that's so mixed up in the Federation here, they know my colleagues from Republika Srpska, in the succession order and the wife's aunts, sister-in-laws, her, his son. The Finnish law rewritten and passed it, which is inapplicable from the point of view, so that's how we make such laws. Then let's rewrite one of these laws. And I guess then there'll be a coherent way to communicate, but let's keep them working. Because everyone's talking about working protection of journalists, blackmailing journalists from owners, I don't know who. As much as we have hired journalists, does anyone have that information? As much as these people are officially working in the media, and they're on a pension disability fund, their name. Does anyone know that? No one has that information. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that we direct the PIO/MIO and the Republika Srpska Pension Fund to list how many journalists are employed in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4886	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto asked for a word, First Deputy. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4887	Thank you very much. I was really thinking about what to say under this point, because the material that I received as an initial point is, in a way, really talking about some kind of pressure on the media, about freedom of media speaking, about their independence, etc. I could sort of understand that if we opened one topic and discussed it in one way, here as parliamentarians and put our position forward, perhaps some sort of assessment or qualification, etc. Since there is talk of an attack on the Klix.ba portal, I really don't have a lot of information about such things and facts, but I'm surprised that no one in this debate has brought up certain things that concern the actions and procedures that made it happen so far. In fact, what I'm familiar with, what I met briefly, the truth also through the media, is that this case is being conducted in two directions and led before the competent institutions, or before the prosecution. In this case, it is, on the one hand, an investigation into whether it is an authentic audio record or on the other hand, about illegal listening actions. And it is, therefore, about conducting investigative or judicial proceedings. And it's actually on the pages and it says that the police, under orders from the competent agencies of the institutions that are working and implementing it, did this situation, went into the premises and did the search the way she did it. One of us saw it, someone didn't, someone met later on through some pictures, etc. I really can't say any more of this when it comes to this particular point. And I wouldn't want to talk in any way about the media attacks, because I could say it out of my own corner in a special way, but I will refrain from it, if any of my statements were on my part and well-intentioned, it wouldn't be understood as some kind of pressure on freedom of the media, because what I want is for the media to really be in the function of the truth and to serve... our people and citizens, in order to create, I would say, a normal public change, which today certainly isn't even close. But I want to say and get back to the situation and the story of Klix.ba, if it is, why one of us dares to tell, we have also talked under the first point, the initiative to replace a colleague, Džaferović, I don't know, whether the court will execute..., how it will bring, etc., whether we are putting pressure on the judiciary through these discussions, etc. Who, then, is putting pressure on these media today? If that's the judiciary, if it's someone else, I don't dare tell, because I don't have enough information and I think and I want to believe that institutions will do their job within the powers they have. And my contribution as a representative, and of course which I belong to, here is to the Croatian people and as a citizen, of course, certain environments from which I come, I will make a full contribution to freedom of access to the media and truth, both information of these and those coming from competent institutions, so that all of us can in some way reason and soundly judge, make decisions and conclusions, and in some way all of us find ourselves in such a media reality. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4888	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4889	The Honorable Chairman, co-chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry we came into this situation to discuss freedom of the media in our country. I'm sure we all have some personal experience with some of the media, but I don't think it's doubtful that there has to be freedom of the media, in addition to everything that's going on in journalism and in journalists. What concerns me here is that we are not discussing the very content of the video that appeared in public. We've all heard about the crossings, about the shopping, but 71 I think this is the first time there's a video of something like that. So it's very important that what counterpart Pandurević said means whether it's an authentic video, and I'm sorry that the SNSD colleagues aren't here. If he's authentic, then they must know who recorded it. It is wrong to transfer to a media reporter, in this case Klix, that they have performed the unauthorized shooting of the prime minister, which is a ridiculous fact. It is wrong for the prosecution and the Sarajevo Court to make such decisions on the basis of such a warrant. I hope that we here too will all have more understanding and more attention, in this particular case, and that we will support this conclusion that my colleague Pandurević said. I hope we can provide journalists with as many negative experiences as we have, that we can provide them with working conditions and reporting conditions. I think it's very important that this case be brought to an end, that we know who made the mistake, that we don't always have some questionnaire in all of us. Because this case can decide what a colleague said about the House of Peoples, about a possible choice in the House of Peoples. So I invite colleagues who are here at least today to support this conclusion by counterpart Pandurević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4890	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović, then I'll just say two sentences and we'll conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4891	Here, Chairman, I will significantly shorten what I wanted to talk about, since I see other colleagues talking and thinking in the same direction, but it's really important that we talk about this topic. What happened, and what is a direct cause for this debate today, the Klix.ba newsroom is something that is more like Azerbaijan, and my colleagues who were and are still members of our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe know why I tell Azerbaijan, because it is a symbol of repression towards the media and a permanent topic. So this is more like Azerbaijan than a country that would like to compare itself to media freedoms and the rule of law with the EU countries it seeks. I agree with all those who say that the spoken word of a public figure has great weight. It's a fake. And I agree it's very often exaggerated. We witnessed it this morning, probably not thinking about the consequences it leaves in public. I also agree with all those who say that the written or word of the journalist, the reporter in the comment, also has a great weight. And it's a fake. The responsibility for the consequences of the spoken, written, said, are on both sides. Although we all, or most of the people sitting here, have been the object of untrueness, to say very mildly, it is not disputed for me to say that, too. However, what counterpart Bećirević has proposed today as a part of the agenda is quite another. That's why I'm only gonna say two more sentences and finish. Today, by adopting this item of the agenda, we have committed ourselves to talking about freedom of the media and in the context of the case that took place on Klix.Klix.ba and the charges of unauthorized recording, I can agree with all those who say that this is a ridiculous accusation and that this is a completely, completely unnecessary event that has no consequences for the media alone, but for the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can only imagine all the questions we will have in Strasbourg in two weeks at the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly meeting on this case. And all the delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only parliamentary ones in any form of human rights, media freedoms, etc. No one mentioned it, and I find it very, very important to mention. 72 And in the end, it is not disputed that in this room, I will say that at this point there is a consensus, but we need to strive to be creators and social consensus, that the media and the media who work in the media must have guaranteed freedom to deal with their work without any pressure. And on all the other topics that are related to the media, I don't mind opening up the topic at one of the next sessions and talking about other aspects of media business and all those who are in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4892	Thank you very much. Here's the word the second deputy asked for, Mr. Mladen Bosić, so I'll do it. Here you go, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4893	Dear MPs. This is a very complex question and I listened to an English PR expert who explains what media spin is, says – you have a problem and you are spinning that problem to find the point of view that will best suit your site. And that's how this issue gets into Klix's portal. Everyone has their own angle of view. And the thing is very simple. No one here mentions the previous question – is it really about major political corruption, taking power based on the purchase of MPs, whether it is actually a case that determines the future of functioning, not only of Republika Srpska, but also of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As counterpart Pandurević said, the House of Peoples was chosen on the basis of the so-called congregation majority. And now we have a previous question – is it true that Republika Srpska Prime Minister Željka Cvijanović said what is on the tape, or is it authentic? If the video is authentic so everyone has to jump on their feet and start dealing with obvious political corruption, with something that's outrageous, which has much greater consequences than stealing, I don't know, 5, 10 or 50 million, which certainly doesn't process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, either in Republika Srpska or in the Federation. There are petty cases, pickpockets, burglars, large cases of millions of thefts being prosecuted because no one, here is the justice minister, I don't know that anyone was responsible except maybe for VAT evasion, but in the millions of corruption, I don't remember anyone answering, and we're all aware that it exists. So if it's an authentic video we have a lot of questions in common here – will the judiciary start working. If it's not an authentic video, if it's out, if it's mounted, then I can understand a police raid anywhere in search of something that has major political consequences. That means, first of all, to discuss this, I need to know if it's an authentic video. And that is why our proposal is that the only agency in BiH that has the equipment and the ability to do so is to make the task of reporting whether it is authentic or not. After that we have a whole new situation, we have a whole new view of the whole case. This raises the question of whether the press and the media are sacred cows, whether they are untouchable, whether they are allowed to spread information that they know is not true and that they are made up. Therefore, I urge you to support our initiative to establish the previous question whether the video is authentic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4894	Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4895	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Here, in my view, the problem is three-dimensional. So the first thing on the scene is, the public feels it, look out, I mean here, the public may sometimes not be able to define things exactly, but it feels very good when the problem is, and here is really the problem. It's up to us to identify where the problem is, what's the first point? The first point is to replace thesis. We are now dealing with journalists rather than dealing with the essence, whether there is political corruption, trade in mandates or not. So now the focus is whether something is legal or not legal. And that's what we do all the time. So that's basically the problem. We must answer, therefore, that problem. The right thing would be to discuss in the procedure of determining political corruption, in which, therefore, the procedure of possible political corruption discusses the legality of evidence or the illegality of evidence, and then to see how things stand, and only then to open up the question of how to obtain that evidence and what has been done. And that's why the public reacts this way. The other thing is protecting the source of the media's freedom of right. There's no freedom of the media without the protection of the source. This time it was hit on that fundamental guarantee of freedom of the media, and they didn't bow down, they didn't give up the source. And we need to see what we do in that segment to build our regulation. And the third thing is jurisdiction and police actions. There are a lot of dissonant tones in the public, actually different tones when it comes to police conduct. Could police in one area react in the way they reacted in another area, and in particular it is a process, whether it can be handled as it was done to journalists. There are people, there are methods applied to people that can't be applied to police actions. And that's why I think that's okay with what Mr. Bećirović was talking about, this conclusion with the support of the press council is something that's quite fine, so if you will, here's what was later proposed as a conclusion or as Mrs. Pandurević's conclusions and so on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4896	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. The replica was reported by MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4897	Thank you. Since I've exhausted this possibility of discussion, I just want to say a few sentences as a proposing of this agenda point. So first of all, I thank all the MPs today who have accepted this proposal to get into the agenda of the House of Representatives' session today, and the discussion we have had has shown the full justification of such a proposal. I must say, I agree with most of the discussions we've heard during this agenda. I think it is very important that we show sensitivity in this highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina against this issue, but it is very important, and I am glad that we have a consensus on this, to send a clear message from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that freedom of the media, freedom of independent, professional, true information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is something that is the basis of every democratic society and so on in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 74 I would therefore like to say, in addition to the two concrete conclusions that I have proposed as a proposal for this item of the agenda, I also support this proposal, which was delivered in written form by Parliament Pandurević, as well as this proposal submitted by my colleague Senad Šepić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4898	Thank you very much. This is how we ended the debate on this agenda point. We're moving on. So the next item of the agenda is, are these ratifications. I suggest that before we move on to the debate on the agenda from point 6 to point 16, right, 17, right, let's unify the debate and I suggest we make a statement on this proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, all right, all right. Prepare to vote again, we vote that we have united the debate on all of these ratifications from point 6 to point 17. Prepare to vote, we repeat the vote. Vote now. I find the House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour, without opposition and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted this conclusion. Ad. Six. - Ad. 17. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4901	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-01-15-0.u4902	So then step off this monitor right here, turn yourself off upstairs. Well, thank you. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering, I'm closing the debate. 75 votes are at 17:20. I'll see you at 5:20 at the vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the final stage of today's session, so to a statement on all the points that we have discussed. We are now going to point 1. This is – The adoption of the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 28 votes in favour, with a sufficient entity majority, without votes against and abstentions, adopted the 2nd session minutes. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions – a proposal from the Council of Ministers (second reading). We are voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendment and conclusion contained in the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget. Should I read the amendment and read the conclusion? You don't have to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
