ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10063	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 22nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Before we begin our work session with all our colleagues, colleagues, as well as all the people of Catholic religion happy and happy Christmas and Christmas holidays. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and representatives of the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose reports are on the agenda of today's session are invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović sent a notice that he was unable to attend the House session for justified reasons, and on behalf of this ministry, BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs đorċe Miličević is present. The absence was justified by representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. According to the information service, the session is present 37, and I ask all those representatives and MPs who are at the session at the moment who have not registered to do so. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Now we're moving on to the establishment of the agenda. As regards the amendments and additions to the sitting agenda, I would like to mention the following: In the agenda next to point 3. The draft Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2016 added the Correction of Technical Mistakes in the Bill's Proposal, which was submitted by the BiH Presidency, act No: 01.02-02-1-29/15 of 29.12.2015. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 4. Proposal for a law on working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-21/15 of 10.12.2015. (first reading), because the Constitutional Commission did not deliver an opinion. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10064	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and your deputies, as well as colleagues and fellow representatives, the honourable ministers of the Council of Ministers and other guests. I suggested adding a new agenda item for today's session, titled: the current financial situation and the endangered business of RS Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the point I propose for why we all got the Act of the Independent Workers' Union in BHRT, in which they invite us to do our part of the job, which is related to the resolution of the radio TV billing model. So we are invited to engage actively, not to be passive observers, which has been updated and not solved for a long time. In this act, they warn us that all public radio-television systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina are ahead of a financial collapse, stressing the importance of showing responsibility at the moment, and providing minimum conditions for the normal functioning of radio-television systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With this proposal, I do not want to diminish the importance of today's 10th agenda, where the Commission's conclusions on traffic and communication are proposed, and I propose this agenda point as an alternative, because I think it is necessary to call the right name – current business and financial problems of public broadcasters. If it is estimated that this point cannot be supported, then I am withdrawing it, and we are leaving it to adopt, under point 10, the conclusions proposed by the Transport and Communications Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10065	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10066	I wanted to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10067	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Staša Košarac. Probably how it comes to... the Staša Košarac at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10068	I thank the chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues and others present in the O.R. I propose that we remove item 10 from today's agenda: Conclusions from the 14th session of the Transport and Communications Commission. Namely, the formulated conclusions in the material are not precisely defined and are not based on our views on the Commission itself. A partial or identical opinion also has the chair of the Commission, and I think it would be good, and given the importance of the topic itself, that we take this point off the agenda and that, of course, it is included in the next session that is planned, I think 12, because the conclusions that are mentioned here are not entirely as discussed and adopted on the Transport and Connection Commission itself. And please, if you can appreciate that and get this point off today's session. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10069	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10070	First of all, I'd really like to ask one question that is related to the exclusion of this point, earlier on item 4 from the agenda. In fact, at the 20th session of the House of Representatives of 24.11., we were informed that because of the lack of the opinion of the Constitutional Commission it is not possible to discuss this point at the session. Today we have a situation again that because of the lack of opinion of the Constitutional Commission we cannot consider that point. I really think these things are inadmissible, not that the Commission can't meet or that there's not enough time to take one point off the agenda twice. Here, I think there's an explanation missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10071	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10072	I thank the chairman. Since I am the first deputy chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I would like to explain Mrs. Majkić. This point was once removed from the agenda because the opinion of our legislative sector was that the law was not passed in accordance with the Single Rules and was returned to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. At the last session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the item was removed from the agenda because there was no assistant of the Minister of Civil Affairs to explain the Law to us, although they were neatly invited in time. We think that everyone from the Council of Ministers, and this time I appeal, should respect the Rules of Procedure, should respect this Parliament. If the Ministry of Civil Affairs doesn't care that we're considering this law today, why would I care more than they do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10073	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10074	As for this point, both a member and a second vice-president of the Constitutional Commission, I attended both the first and second sessions. For the first time there was a problem with, as my colleague said, the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the day before was a problem with the absence of an assistant minister of civil affairs, with me and two colleagues being the position to take a session, to take a break 15 minutes to get that assistant to the meeting, and four members of the Commission voted to take the whole point off the agenda, 3 members voted against it, so 4:3 was the removed point from the agenda. 4 meċutim, I would like to point out that, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it is absolutely all respected. As regards the Rules of Procedure, it was the vote to remove it from the agenda, it was removed from the agenda, etc., which is the exact opposite of the situation that we have in the House of Peoples where, without any explanation, the chairman of the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House has repeatedly refused to put on the agenda the Law on the Elimination of White Bread. So I would also like to point out that in the House of Nations we have a Commission on Finance and a budget that, without any decision by the College or any body, refuses to include the Law on the Elimination of White Bread adopted by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10075	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10076	I've come forward on item 10 and a proposal from a colleague of the Košarac team. Namely, the first conclusion, first of all, is that this was on the Commission's agenda in the first place by sending a letter to the BHRT Trade Union asking to consider the current situation in BHRT, and now not to say what it is like. We put it on the Commission, and after the debate, we have found, in fact, in the course of the debate itself that it is not possible to resolve this issue without the participation of everyone. And that is why the second position says they are asking the Council of Ministers' House of Representatives to assist the Committee in co-operation with entity governments, means that this problem is resolved. Why is the Board of Directors of BHRT standing here and not the Board of Public Services? Because we can't order the Governing Board to do the Radio-TV of Republika Srpska, or Federal Television, the National Assembly can do it, but it is a debate that went in this direction to look for a solution in all. And if you look at it that way, then in this conclusion it may be too much to ask the Board of Directors of BHRT, but simply to ask the Committee of the System, that it is in accordance with Article 18. The law, because it's actually a member of 18. The law also states that the Management Board of the System determines an efficient and sustainable model for the collection of tv fees. So, we can, we have the option, I don't mind taking this item off the agenda today, as proposed by Mr. Košarac, so that the Commission changes its conclusion and delivers it amended, or erasing this part of the text from the conclusion today, means that it does not, in principle, reflect the debate, that is correct, does not reflect the debate on the Commission itself. Whatever Dom decides, I don't mind. What is certain is that we are very late in solving this problem. When I say I don't mean Parliament, but I mean institutions that are legally obliged to resolve this issue, which unfortunately haven't solved the issue, and with this month, we're also underlining an extended contract with Teleko operators, and we can come, indeed all services can come into a very serious situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10077	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10078	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. 5 So here I am not to take down this item of the agenda, respecting all this what my colleague Novaković was saying. The complexity of the situation, the time seal in which the system or systems are located, which are practically placed in front of the wall and cannot function, indicates one seriousness of the situation. I think it is extremely important that we have this agenda point and that we discuss this agenda point, and that these conclusions proposed by the Commission or the Commission are corrected or that we accept the conclusions as a House of Representatives in a somewhat modified form from what the Commission has proposed. Of course, from these words, Mr Novaković insists that neither the Commission should have any objection to these conclusions being changed. Therefore, I think this is all the more expensive reason for this point to remain on the agenda, respecting the seriousness of the situation in which public broadcasters are located, or systems that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10079	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10080	Thank you, Chairman. I have no intention of complicating the difficult situation, this is about the Commission's conclusions. That's one thing, and the other is BHRT's condition. That's two different ideas and two different topics. And I think it would be very correct, and due to the future work of the Commission, and given that we have disagreement with what is in the conclusions, that we take this off the agenda and that at the next session, the Commission is scheduled before the next session and that we define this, because I don't think we're going to reach an adequate, adequate debate or adequate conclusion, if we let this material into debate at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10081	Amir Fazlić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10082	Dear colleagues. I think we at the club think that this point 10 should not be questionable for today's agenda and that we should certainly discuss these conclusions. They can be corrected at the session itself, they can be repaired. But also because of the state of BHRT and this point of Mr Emrić, we can think of it as perhaps a previous point, before the 10th point, and to unite this debate and to come to some quality conclusions so that the people of BHRT and the public may have one picture and what we think and what we can do to help this institution. So I think point 10 should stay, and I think Mr. Emrić's proposal deserves attention and we should give support to that point as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10083	Thank you. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. According to proposals, i.e. according to the order of the proposal, we will plead. Representative jasmin Emrić proposes to include the point in today's session's agenda: the current financial situation and the threatened business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio-Television. 6 Please state the application for the entry of this point into the agenda of today's session. Of the total 40 present – for 26, against 4 abstentions 10. The Federation of BiH 21 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, RS 5 for, 3 against, 6 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand that we have placed this item in today's session agenda. Now we have to define the order. I think we should do business, where we do, to sort of service us according to the agenda, uh, this point...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10084	If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10085	Here you can comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10086	The conclusions of the Commission relate to this problem. If we have now adopted that we have this point on the agenda, then within it we will certainly discuss the Commission's conclusions, so point 10 and the proposal either to strip or to stay almost make no sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10087	Here you go, colleague Šefik Džaferović. Although there is no debate on this point we consider this a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10088	I just want to, I don't want to discuss it at all, dom made a decision and he adopted that this is the agenda point, and I'm just suggesting that it be a point before this point that applies to the Commission's report and then we bring together the debate on both of these points and then we adopt the single conclusions afterwards. Let me just help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10089	Here, at this point we can say that this is point 9 but in order to make the proposals that were for the agenda, we have as the House to declare on Mr Staša Košarac's proposal to take point 10 off the agenda. Please let us be clear about this. Of the 40 present – for 11, against 22, abstentions 7. The Federation of BiH has no, against 20, abstentions 6, RS 11 for, against 2 and 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I figure this point stayed like, actually now this point has become the 9th point moving is all of the points of point 9 by one point in advance. These other proposals by MPs, in some ways, received answers through corrections of the wrong quote so that we can only conclude that today's point – the Unworkable Days and Holidays Act is not on the agenda for reasons that there is no need for an opinion. 7 I now conclude that the 22nd session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2016 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-29/15, of 18.12.2015. (first reading) and Correction of technical error in the Bill proposal, delivered: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-02-1-29/15, of 29.12.2015; 4. Proposal for a conclusion from the 4th emergency session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH; 5. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative to discuss progress information in the process of meeting BiH's European path, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01-50-1-853/15, of 18.12.2015; 6. Report on the implementation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual-purpose products and specific purposes for 2013 and Report on Foreign Trade in Arms, Military Equipment, dual-purpose products and special purposes for 2014, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-03-1489/15, of 24.11.2015; 7. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Transparency of the work of BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-127/15, of 07.10.2015; 8. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, applicant: European Commission, number: 01,02-06-1538/15, of 03.12.2015; 9. Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, applicant: Council of Ministers, Number: 01,02-50-11-1383/15, of 28.10.2015; 10. Current financial situation and threatened business of BiH Radio-Television, Proposer: jasmin Emrić; 11. Conclusions from the 14th session of the Committee on Transport and Communications, issue: 01/5-50-3-54/15, of 23.11.2015; 12. Appropriations for acts of the World Postal Federation (UNU) adopted at the 25th UPU Congress held in 2012 in Doha (General Regulation of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol of the World Postal Convention and the Postal Financial Services Agreement), No 01,02-05-2-1546/15, of 07.12.2015. Before we start on the agenda, in accordance with Article 27, point (f), I shall shorten the debate by points to 5 minutes. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH You've all got a record. At the adoption of the minutes of the 20th session, the House of Representatives concluded that it was necessary for the Secretariat College to provide information on the problems encountered during the 8th vote on item 89 of the agenda of the 20th session. The Secretariat's College provided information on the vote under item 89 of the agenda of the 20th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.11.2015, which reads – Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the State Border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, according to the Opinion of 21st session adopted on the adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House. You got the information. The Information vote will be held after the vote on the adoption of the minutes from the 21st session and will be an integral part of this minutes. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. So I don't see anyone reported. I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on the answers received to the representatives of the questions
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10092	I thank the chairman. Well, I guess they were all worth it, so I got three answers. I want to thank the Border Police for finally resolving the dilemmas and telling us that Mr. Mile Radišić has illegally crossed the border. And, of course, I will forward this response to the Republika Srpska Interior Minister so that he can take the law of the measures taken. As regards the second question to the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency on the receipt of members of the Management Board, this was called for by the Personal Data Protection Act. Of course, they refused to answer how many these members received. meċutim, since it is about persons who are legally appointed, the Governor of the Central Bank is a member... and of course there is a public interest, as the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has made public, so that I will ask and direct them, on the basis of the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, the same question again. As far as elektroprenos is concerned, I'm sorry that here it turns out that 10 million marks of Elektroprenos remained with Banka Srpska. We can see here that I am really surprised why Elektroprenos in June 2014 presented these funds in the Bank of Serbia when it was already known to be the audit report by Banka Srpske for 2013, which was not good. Furthermore, only three months later, Elektroprenos finds out that there are problems there, these problems existed in June, and are seeking a dissipation of the funds that Bank of Serbia refused. And here, the director of Elektroprenos, in a really broad response, says he has also informed the Republika Srpska Banking Agency and says himself that Banka Srpske committed a series of illegalities on these funds. I wish the CEO of Elektroprenos had taken another step, and it filed criminal charges against those who are illegally working. And hopefully, here it is, this time I call him to do, in accordance with the law, and to protect the interests of elektroprenos. Those who refuse to comply with the law should respond according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10093	Senad Šepić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10094	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So, I've got an answer to my question about the position and status of these border crossings on the Un-San canton. I have a few dilemmas. So I got an answer from the chairman's board of directors, Dr. Mire Džakula, I have the Ministry of Security's seal on that paper, says it says that the chairman of the commission is unable to attend a personal session scheduled for 10.12.2015. Answer dated 23.12.2015. And something, given that I asked the question on the 10th of the 12th, you can see that this is some sort of thing that's been done after a long time, that points back here to the Parliamentary Assembly, so I want to say a few things. So, the answer after perhaps half a year of persistent initiatives to finally get some concrete answers about working on these border crossings at the UN-San canton is that BiH Border Police have taken action to consider possibilities. So I really, right now I want to comment on this again, to say that it's already three years old as we talk about these things. Here, in this term, this is the fifth time, and I may be bothering needless colleagues sitting here in the Parliamentary Assembly, but because of one incorrect relationship between institutions that need to do this job more honestly, I am forced to do this. So we've been talking about this for three years. The chairman of Zvizdić at last session here committed himself, promised, publicly told us 10 that within 15 days we would have a concrete answer and resolve this issue by three things relating to border crossings in the UN-San canton. So we still don't have any answers except that we've taken action to consider possibilities. That is why I propose, here I am now renewing my same parliamentary issues and initiatives and I propose that at the next session of the House we put a special item of the agenda here – Considering the situation at the border crossings in BiH, with a special emphasis on earlier established initiatives on resolving border crossing status in the UN-San canton of Maljevac – Tržiška Raštela and Izačić. So I think that we should have this at the meeting of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and Ministers and Directors, that is, the chairman of this Commission for Integrated Border Management, and that in such a way we should really open this debate more honestly and put an end to these activities that we have been talking about for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10095	Commentary, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10096	I thank the chairman. Just a little bit, uh, before I comment on a specific question, you said in your introduction that I asked one question to the Foreign Ministry, one to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I actually asked two to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and one to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so if the services can just, uh, see that everything's okay. As for a concrete comment on the answer to the parliamentary question, at the last session of this House since 24.11.2015, I have asked a question in the oral form of the BiH Minister of Justice and from him, at the same session, so on 24.11., I received an oral response. As I was not satisfied with that oral response, I asked that, as the Rules of Procedure permits, I asked him to provide me with an answer in writing, which the Rules of Procedure, again, allows me to express myself. I don't know if the minister is aware but this business law means that the minister gave me his answer, which he gave me in oral form at the House session, has to deliver in writing the way he gave it in oral form. Instead, I got something quite third. Here is an example, the oral question is set at a session of 24.11. and the answer is given in oral form at a session of 24.11. What you have now delivered to me in writing, among other things, mentions a period of 02.12. So either the minister was psychic at that last session so he knew what was going to happen on 02.12. or he did not respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure that my oral response had to be delivered in writing. So I am now asking the service and the minister to deliver my oral response in writing, in accordance with the clear provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So what you said at that session of 24.11. to deliver it to me in writing, not something quite third, and to tell me again, if possible, that you do not mention any future dates in that written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10097	Hazim Rančić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10098	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. 11 kolega Lovrinović and I have asked questions about activities, i.e. the initiative on activities and the Presidency, and the Council of Ministers, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to obtain the status of the national minority of Bošnjak in the Republic of Albania, since Bosnia and Herzegovina recognised that status in its law to Albanac in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm grateful for the technical response, but I'm not satisfied with the essence. In fact, about the answer is that officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all official contacts with Albanian officials always stress the importance of regulating minority status issues originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not see that this is exactly the case, it is exactly the foreign ministry's one diplomatic response, and the addition is that they have been given firm assurances that this issue will be resolved regarding the harmonisation of the rules of Albania and their way into the EU. So, when Albania is ready to join the EU and when it agrees with the AKI, they will do so without our activities. In the previous paragraph, we are finely told from the ministry, from the Council of Ministers that the issue of national minorities in Albania has been resolved for Greece, Macedonia and Montenegro's national minority. And what is wrong with our councils of ministers, our prime ministers, our foreign ministers, our parliamentary leaderships, the parliamentary delegations that this issue is resolved for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are loyal and honorable citizens of the Republic of Albania, who live honestly and honestly. And more or less, all of us from a couple of re-emergences had a chance to meet these people. It is my intention that both the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and all those concerned, take action to resolve this issue, because we know that we have had and that we will likely have certain bilateral meetings and talks with the leadership, leaders from Albania soon. And I ask that they take further action from the Foreign Ministry to put this issue on the agenda and resolve it. Waiting for Albania to resolve this issue for Bosniaks in Albania alone, by harmonising its rules with the AKI, is in fact the reluctantness of our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10099	Mirsad Đonlagić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10100	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have to point out I'm not a vain man, but this is inadmissible. I cannot accept that I am being delivered by the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers as Mirsad Đugum. If that's not how the secretary general sees what he's signing, and he has an act that clearly tells who he's sent that answer to, then I can doubt all of his other things and all the other signatures he's put on some act. So, I'm not asking for an apology, I'm asking for this to be corrected in the record of today's session. I'm not Mirsad Đugum, I'm Mirsad Đonlagić. And I am pleased that after a few months of my persistent efforts finally came to the agenda to raise this issue for the fugitive and convicted war criminal, General Đukić. If this is how the Ministry of Justice refers to this case as Mr. Kutleša refers to what he signed, then I'm not sure this will be done in the best possible way or in the only possible way to deal with it. I appeal that the Justice Ministry is constantly following this question, and that, if not 12 to Parliament, at least to me, it will provide us with a report of what is going on and what are the changes in this case, and at the request of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10101	Thank you. Here, I'll comment very briefly. I apologize, but in the memo we had Mirsad Đugum written. Since we were dealing with the College yesterday, some of the issues that came from federal officials, and they're going through Parliament, we, I just thought that these were really going back to the address they were addressed to. Here, so an apology from the College if, therefore, this question concerns Mirsad Đonlagić. Here, once again and, in a way, in front of the College, and perhaps in front of the institution in front of which the reply was sent, or in front of the Council of Ministers. Representative Nikola Špirić, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10102	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed ministers, esteemed colleagues... MPs, esteemed guests. I don't know if there's any need to repeat the question I asked Minister Osmanović, but here, I'll paraphrase it, I asked to be answered – on the basis of which legal acts are appointed officers of the 7th so-called duty. Bosnia and Herzegovina's culture institution, on the basis of which certain financial resources were allocated and whether the Council of Ministers agreed on this. I think this answer and the way it approaches this problem will not solve the status of these institutions, it will only complicate it. I wouldn't want to... question a man who doesn't ask for a solution, but every solution must be a legal solution. I warned here about illegal solutions. Any institution operating on the basis of illegal solutions is not an institution that can seek financial resources from the budget of the BiH institutions. And for a wonderful miracle, the minister answers, says – based on information from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so at the 16th session, of 23.07.2015, on information from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs that the Council of Ministers gave its consent to the Ministry of Civil Affairs to ensure, in co-operation with other interested entities, the solution of the current issues: governance, administrative and financial issues. But that doesn't mean, Mr. Minister, illegal solutions, any solution means it's legal. And my remarks and suggestions to the Council of Ministers whether it worked this way four years after the term of office, according to these relapses, will go the way we did before them. So, my warning. And to make the case worse, so this legal irregularity is also intruding into the budget of this year, which I'm going to talk about. So, the Finance Act says that there can be no compensation paid from the budget for salaries of employees outside Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, that it is a violation of the law. And I think that these precedents that run along with... the silence of the structures within the Council of Ministers, I can understand that something can be the creation of a good atmosphere within the Council of Ministers, but it just can't be a violation of the law if we want the rule of law. And I don't think these institutions are protected by these decisions, it's done by, as the people say, bear service. But here's what time will show, anyone who initiates a court dispute will win this court dispute. And it opens up a conflict procedure with these institutions instead of legally helping them. So, here I am asking, this is not the only example, but I tried to warn on this example that the Council of Ministers has the power to seek a solution, I don't suppose it should write to him that he's looking for a legal solution. And it is true that these appointments are not confirmed at meetings of the Council of Ministers, but the minister has misused a formal decision. It's another abuse, and it's not 13 good. But it's not worth it, I get the feeling, I warn here, the government thinks it's all-powerful, it can do what it wants, but like any government can't go as far as it wants if it breaks the laws. But you'll make a decision about it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10103	Nikola Lovrinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I say hello to all my colleagues. I'll be in touch for the first time. So, I don't have an answer to the questions and, here's every session I've been trying to get from my colleagues, I'm sure you do, but I don't know if I can make an effort to and hold a meeting with the D.A.'s office and the VStV to finally answer some of the questions I asked, I don't know if any colleagues have such questions, there are some three, four months. So, I'll just remind you, you've said perhaps the last one, which came between these two sessions, the question, because it's actually a re-arrangement to an earlier question, it's about the status of witnesses who falsely testify about the burial sites that were killed in Bugojn, it's about the request to provide information on the investigation, the course of the investigation, so, the dead returnees of Hrvat and police officers in Travnik, and it's about the VSTV issue, therefore, the responsibility of the prosecutor or prosecutor who led the process of arresting members of HVO in Kiseljak, for which they had no evidence. So there is simply no answer, so I would ask, I don't know if there is any possibility in the Rules of Procedure at all, that you, as chairman or the entire College, would ask the Prosecutor's Office and the VSTV, so they want to cooperate with this Parliament at all, or with us, or maybe they don't want to cooperate with me, I have no idea. If that's not the case, here comes New Year's Eve, I hope by the first session, I'll get some answers in half of January, at least for a part of these questions. If not, then I'll probably hold a press conference myself and tell about this all that the D.A.'s doing and what I think about how they don't respond and, therefore, they don't respect the MPs in this State Parliament or maybe they don't have to. If they don't have to, thank you very much, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10105	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. Finalising point 2. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2016, Proposer: BiH Presidency (first reading) and Correction of Technical Errors in Bill Proposal - delivered: BiH Presidency The draft law was submitted in procedure 18.12.2015. The College submitted the draft law to the Constitutional Law and the Committee on Finance and Budget, noting that it would be included in the agenda of today's House Sessions. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 28.12.2015. The BiH presidency delivered a technical error correction in the Bill's Proposal on 29.12.2015. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on the principles of the bill on 30.12. The commission also adopted the conclusion, proposing that it be adopted to the House. The conclusion is: 14 – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly accepts the request of the BiH Presidency No. 01.02-02-1-29/15, of 29.12.2015, for the correction of technical errors in the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2016 and empowers the Department for the Making and Publishing of Legal Acts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to correct the technical error in Article 15 (1) of the proposal for a law in the Bosnian and Serbian languages, and that instead of the amount of 387.000 KM state the amount of 496,000 KM and correct the other technical errors in the bill proposal. The House College has decided to propose to the House a review of the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and BiH International Obligations for 2016 in both readings at today's session without considering it in the second reading committee, in accordance with Article 112(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Before opening the debate, the College decided to hold a vote on the Bill on the Budgetary of BiH Institutions and BiH' international obligations for 2016 immediately after the debate in both readings. I'm making a proposal for the College to vote. Of the 41 present – for 19, against 12, abstentions 10. The Federation of BiH 14 for, 5 against, 8 abstentions, RS 5 for, 7 against, 2 abstentions. I find that there is a general and entity majority and we have adopted the proposal, so we should hold a vote on the bill immediately after the debate in the first and second readings. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10107	...the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. The way I vote on this budget is unstandard. I know that this should be decided by the House of Peoples and I'm always in favor of having a budget in this year for next year, and I don't see anything controversial in that, but sometimes exceptions grow into practice and that's not good. We had our first and second readings together last year, then there was an explanation, and it was logical because the new structure of government came, it was illogical that the previous one was cutting the budget and the framework... I find acceptable. I don't think there was a need for this this year, I think it was a good thing that a good parliamentary debate on the budget was held, that there was an opportunity for MPs to debate and try to fix what they think needs to be fixed in the amendment phase. But no matter how the debate took place, I will say mine... to this budget and the reason for my conduct in voting. In fact, what I'm saying is that the proposal for a law has been passed in line with the Global Framework for fiscal balances and policies for the period 2016-2018. So beyond that, you couldn't. And I want to say that I actually realize how hard it was to get to this... budget, balance all budget users, etc., that difficulty I understand everything. But what erases my feelings when it comes to the budget is the way it was approached, so the way the budget reserve was created in the budget. The budget reserve of 599,000 for 2016 is a reserve that every solid collective has stronger or medium in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This means that the state has given up its concerns for all unprepared challenges that may arise in 2016. I'm talking about floods, droughts, any incident situations, the need for the state to be guaranteed help if anything happens. And that's the first time Dejton's ever been here. Namely, when you look at it in the current reserve there are..., however, if you look at the text of the Law it is visible that the amount of 15 current reserves is reduced by 360,000 intervention reserves that have three members of the Presidency. Until now, the Council of Ministers has had the right to do so, and this year, the Council and members of the Bureau have, since next year, only members of the presidency. I've been at a chance... I don't dispute the need for people to have that reserve, I think they should, I think she's small like this. But I mean generally the global budget reserve in the year ahead of which we are expected by far more complex challenges than we anticipated. In fact, the budget reserve also serves to cover unprepared events. It's one of the purposes and it's a warning that keeps me away from supporting this budget. Other things, the Council of Ministers is the opposite, so when I spoke earlier, the answer to the parliamentary question, I said that it contains certain illegalities in itself because 0.6 million marks last year were made to finance the salaries of extra-budger users, which is illegal. This continues this year, and what, if I don't go by the items, let's say there is an increase in the presidency of 0.4 million marks for the additional employment of 7 perpetrators. I ask the question, we've always had a declarative time, when I ran finance, when those systematicizations... that have a galloping principle of employment end. I have functioned for a long time and as chairman and minister, I have not filled out the systemisation once. And I don't think that those needs exist except for political trade, let me hire two, let me do two, this two, that two, we have seven. I think this Parliament must have the strength to stand up to it. Our members of the Presidency or, I don't know, some others have more advisors than the presidents of countries in the region or in democratically developed countries. Then the ministry, the Constitutional Court got a 5-executor increase, I don't know, the Prosecutor's Office for 5 perpetrators, and accordingly a budget increase. I don't think we should be declarative to the citizens. The request for... I had this problem when I was doing this function and I know actually how difficult it is, but these are things we just have to tell the public, that we're talking about saving, that there's not going to be employment and that employment has become part of political... and trade. Let's see what happens this year if the presidency doesn't get, say, 7, by taking over 100% of the reserves, the intervention reserves. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So can we at least tell them...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10109	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10110	Okay, I'm finishing up, so can we at least tell them we can't do this? Since it can't be amended to fix this budget, I have this budget for this year, unfortunately I have to say I won't support it. He was first reading, second reading, but with such budget reserves, tell the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be calm and that the state will help them, I don't think in any kind of torture and disaster they should count on the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities. That's what we're sending them through this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10111	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10112	I thank the chairman. As for the remarks of distinguished fellow Špirić on two readings, today I would like to remind him that we have been going to adopt here the document we say – we are adopting the Budget which the Presidency will then deliver to us. It was at a time when Mr Špirić was sitting on the Council of Ministers. As for the current reserves, I would like to welcome the decision of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, the intervention reserves, because unfortunately over the past period we have had a very non-transparent way of spending it, so we have an open case in the Prosecutor's Office on the spending of that reserve. And I know that this is small, because we had, I'm sorry to say, and an example that a respected colleague of Špirić, at least as the media talked, as much as the Council of Ministers has now shared with party colleagues, persons who have spoken for help. We think there are institutions that need to do this, not ministers. And here's what we gave up, and I think we should say hello.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10113	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10114	Well, I wanted to welcome the reduction in the budget reserve, because if it will be as much as it was, and especially if it will be spent the way it was spent in the previous term, then it better not be gone at all. If nothing else will, uh, it won't... deal with it when it's not there. As for the proposal, not the conclusion, but Mr Špirić's ideas about employment, I must say that I agree with him absolutely and that it is a shame that we didn't bring it in 2010. In some institutions today, the situation with an employee would probably be quite different and the amount of money used for wages would be very different, so not some towns and villages by the number of employees would look like Banja Luka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10115	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10116	I'm sorry we're getting personal to this country's problems. So it wasn't my intention to have a personal relationship with any member of the Council of Ministers or the Presidency, I point out a phenomenon that's not good. Everything that was non-transparent in my mandate, everything, including budget reserves, there are institutions to deal with, I am at their disposal. But I'm just pointing out that it's not interrupted, it's just being moved from one institution to another. And I don't think it's a problem that exists, I'm just saying that the problem is that the 2016 budget reserve, and it's legal, and it says in the law why it serves, no matter what someone wants it to be zero, where the ideal economies are and... the budget reserve is not... the reserve. And especially we had experience behind us, so that state... I say I'm afraid something happens in 2016 and a budget reserve of 588,000. If my colleagues have a problem with Nikola Špirić, I invite them to hand over all knowledge from my birth to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to this day. And don't worry, if I can't bear the challenges of 17 times in which I've performed the function I shouldn't even... but it can't be, if there are my mistakes I can't justify in advance through the mistakes that are to God, under quotes, by Nikola Špirić. And I call on them not to be personal, the budget is not an individual, nor members of the Presidency, nor the Council of Ministers, nor Parliament, the responsibility for the adoption of the budget lies with the BiH Parliament thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10117	Debate, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10118	I thank the chairman. I honestly thought there was no worse practice than this budget adoption practice, but here's counterpart Pandurević saying there's worse practice. So there's always worse. We are on the Commission for Budgets and Finance, I can say freely, pointing out that it is necessary to honour this budget calendar that we have, so that we do not repeat these practices that we have had the opportunity to hear from our former colleagues that this is how we adopt the Budget of the BiH institutions. However, we always repeat ourselves, make the same mistakes, and I guess that's our destiny. I got this budget seven days ago. So that's one extensive material as you can see, here it is, all this is the Budget Institution of BiH. In those seven days, I need to give my own court, a modest court on the budget of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is, we must agree, impossible, that I, as an MP, can make a quality contribution to the adoption of the Budget of the BiH institutions. But I don't understand why we break these procedures, why we don't start processes in time. I don't think what we're doing is necessary at all. Why? When we look at it, here in this budget, Article 2, this is the first table, total financing revenues and receipts available to BiH institutions in 2016, 950 million. For 2015, the same amount is 950 million, and this amount is allocated to 75 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I don't see at all the need for some excessive process and I don't see the justification to be late in adopting the budget, and then another emergency procedure like this is still being proposed to end it today and that here we need, in a way, just passively observe and not engage in this process. I don't want to talk about the budget reserve only for institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, that doesn't make any sense. I want to talk about the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina about development projects. Well, I expected the Council of Ministers to propose, in this budget, that, in line with the exposé and the Work Programme, some concrete... let's see this, that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina see it, that they can, in the end, feel it in improving their living environment. I must, unfortunately, remind myself that I do not see here the concrete announcements I expected, which I have supported, and I continue to support, that the strategic sector of agriculture, rural development and the production of healthy food in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be strengthened, and it is written here that this will be strengthened, and that we will have it in the budgets. That we MPs will face these proposals, that we will conduct discussions and that we will eventually come up with some solution that will go towards strengthening the agriculture sector, because this is one big chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The more real sector we in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have that we can fix this very difficult social and financial situation. The Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers, said it would increase material financial support for domestic agricultural production and rural areas. And I expect it, I expected it in this budget. takoċe, a very important thing that the Council of Ministers stressed will be established, that the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises will be established. Well, small and medium-sized enterprises are a pillar of the development of 18 countries in Europe. Between 60% and 80% of European countries' total employees are small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's Bosnia and Herzegovina's chance, and we need to see it transparently. I'm not that, maybe it's somewhere in this budget, but I didn't have time to read it to make sure that it was, that this budget proposal leads us to establish better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. These are just some of the frameworks I want to say about in this limited time, and the time has already expired.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10119	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10120	Here's what we could do. We could in these requests from the ministries then recognize what these needs are. Well, specifically, here's the Department of Defense asked to increase the budget. I don't know why they were looking for it, but there's a program, it says – maintenance of infrastructure facilities and supplying the Armed Forces. And the Armed Forces don't have electricity today, they don't have registered vehicles, they don't have flour. And these are the problems of this country, and I don't see in this budget that we're going to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10121	Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10122	Thank you. I welcome you all. We are at the end of the year, and here we are in the Republika Srpska coalition, led by the SNSD, adopted the budget, in the Federation of Coalitions gathered around the HDZ adopted the budget and today we need to get the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I was preparing for this session, I had several approaches, I hurried to take the exposés of the Council of Ministers and compare it with what... the promised policy with what is in the budget, so I gave it up for a number of reasons. One is because it doesn't have a lot of similarities, and the other is that it's time for me to give a man a break for one session. And then I took another material to prepare, and that's what it is. The summated works of discussions between MPs, ministers and party leaders of the SDA on the 950m budget. Otherwise, there are currently a lot of SDA MPs missing in the O.R., which wasn't before when we talked about the 950 million budget. At that time, people said that the 950 million-dollar budget was under attack on the state and its Euro-Atlantic route, because we are getting a budget that wants to shut down Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this 950-million-dollar budget will be called into question by state institutions, that this is a bad message for those who want to fight corruption and crime, that there is some secret political agreement behind these decisions. One of the party leaders then said that the 950-million-dollar budget put Bosnia and Herzegovina in a wheelchair, that it would be difficult for the European path, that it is insufficient for institutions to function, that insufficient funds to the Ministry of Defence and the Directorate for European Integration, given what awaits us. Today, when we have an activated Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it seems enough. That it is embarrassing that there is no Srebrenica within the budget and that almost no longer is said to be, that this is a policy of halting Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosperity, that they are all those who adopt the 950-no return budget to strengthen state institutions. That a budget of 950 million was created by the national, economic and other interests of Republika Srpska at the expense of the state, that... has the sole goal of degradeing state institutions, paralysing their work, while at the same time raising entity budgets. At that time, imported colleagues from the SDA, I do not purposely speak of names for a reason 19 which is why a number of them who have said this are extremely respectful and I do not want to mention them, and for these others I would like to mention, but here they are all in the same basket, it is criticised why the Law on the Fiscal Council is not being consummated in full and that, in accordance with Article 11, the fiscal framework is redefined and these funds are increased. What they were saying about the SBB, that SDP spit was okay then because it was one, a relationship, to me, incorrect, but okay, but what they were saying about SBB, here's not to read now, it's shortened the chairman, it's terrible. She's here, you know how much she has, that's amazing. Let me take this a little bit more time just to say that here's the SDP and the SBB we're here together, but... criticism, that our amendments to which we've returned the budget to 950 million enemies of the state, that we were valued by the HDZ back then, I guess that's not how it is today. And then the amendments came. So the SDA proposed an increase in resources for the Ministry of Defence, for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. They told us we were against going back. The fact that soldiers go to work today buy their own bread because there is no bread purchased is no longer a problem. These amendments are not made by the SDA today. The Directorate for European Integration, I guess, has equipped itself in the meantime, I don't know how either, so there's no need for those funds, the Office for Harmonization and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, etc., etc. The chairman here I fit in, just another sentence, actually I don't need a sentence I'm... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10123	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10124	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I got up to thank Mr. Saša Magazinović because all these days, I don't know why, but it's probably his impression, it's an expression of great praise for HDZ's work, expressed in his hopes today. I thank him, and I just tell him to do it that way, not like when the SDP is in power, so he takes us back eight years. daći Bog to... be more in position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10125	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10126	Well, it's not the first time a colleague of Nikola doesn't understand things. I forgive him every time, and I really respect him as a colleague. So, I didn't congratulate HDZ, I congratulated your leader, Mr. Covic, who has indeed managed politically to set himself up as a central figure who exhibits invoices and everyone else delivers it. So, what a man wants, it has nothing to do with New Year's, it's usually what a man wants the SDA and other partners deliver. And I really congratulated him on that. It's political art, art. It wasn't possible from 2010 to 2014 and the man was simply, what he wanted then couldn't get, now he gets, and I congratulate him on it. And this is that the Federation coalition is gathered around HDZ that's a simple fact. But this isn't the subject of the Budget, we can do it on some other point a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10127	Thank you. 20 I ask the MPs to behave according to the Codex. Whether someone understands it or not is another thing, but everyone has the right to their political position. Correction of the wrong allegation, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10128	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to invite all of us to take seriously the document we have here today, which we are discussing here and to try to make a contribution, a constructive contribution to get as good a document as possible. On behalf of the U.S.A., I, of course, reject all these stings that have been sent from a respected colleague, Magazinović. The SDA is a political party that respects Bosnia and Herzegovina, respects its multiethnic character and will always be a political party on these principles to advocate and build Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's very sad to hear attempts to accuse the SDA of giving someone something that doesn't belong to someone. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of them should have what belongs to them and we will not be defended and we will not allow anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina to have what does not belong to them and we will never allow any additional ethnic and territorial division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have now stood up for this pay phone that after several repeated claims made by Mr Magazinović or by the SDP people, I point to this thing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10129	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10130	With premeditation, so I didn't planly mention the names of the people who said what I was quoting. So all I was saying was not my words, but the words of the people of the U.S.A., two years ago. And then 950 million meant that Bosnia and Herzegovina was in a wheelchair, in their words, that it wanted to shut down Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it was an attack on the state, on the European path, on the NATO path. And it can't be a more serious approach than to see how much with the same 950 million Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets came out of wheelchairs in two years. And there can be no more serious discussion, colleague Džaferović, than this. I've got a lot of this. I'll start using this at other points of the agenda. And I think it is a serious approach to this issue and that it is a serious relationship with the Budget issue. That what was worth two years ago would have been logical for you today. meċutim, everything that was then a political stance today is no longer. What, for what, for whom? Here I am going to listen to you so I won't go in there, then it's said that the SDA will never support the 950 million budget because it believes that the funds that entities single out for the state level are less than it should be, far less, and that it will certainly endanger the functioning of state institutions. I say so at a time when you and your colleagues will support those same 950 million that were insufficient to survive Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today it is probably enough even for a European path.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10131	Deputy Šefik Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10132	Mr. Magazinović, the easiest way to get things out of context is to look at them in the context where the speaker wants to observe them. But that's not right, and I have to get up and 21 to say it's not right. You made a mistake the year you allowed and agreed that the fiscal framework should fall to this level. And it can only be fixed if we have the consent of everyone. But even then, when that mistake was made, she needed the consent of those who were in power. And that's the problem. So today, we live in the given sizes that you've set for us, if we want to talk about it. So there's no choice here when it comes to the fiscal framework, because then a mistake was made that we were pointing to at that point. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10133	Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10134	Well, maybe more of a reaction. So, one part, Džaferović replied. But I would, if the debate hadn't been further opened, perhaps in a context like this, I would ask, we have the chairman here, we have the finance minister, then the man was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so that they provide us with information on the way and the principles of harmonising this global fiscal framework. This is 2016-2018, it is evident that within this budget we have little different redistributions now. And what will, in some ways, define me how to deal with the support of this Budget is how much we will be able to stand now when it comes to our European path and the position of meeting the requirements of the reform agenda. So how much, given that we have now opened this process, before it was completely blocked, so I can understand that some things were at that level of 950 million, how much we are now going to be able to answer that, because eventually this fiscal framework is set up like this. Obviously, the Council of Ministers on that side has this kind of response, has its reasons for establishing it that way. So that this debate would not further spread, I can understand the discussions on one side and on the other, it would be good to hear from the Council of Ministers, and then to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10135	Correction of the wrong allegation, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10136	So, what the esteemed SDP colleague Saša Magazinović was saying was not any arbitrary findings, but naked facts and facts. So none of the only sentences are made up, but they're about the statements that were in this room a year ago two. It's not that far. He has shown in a maestral way what it looks like in this country and in this Parliament something that I call short-memory policy, so you can speak and express a variety of thesis, and then in two years you do... for 180 degrees and a completely different thing to argue. These things should be clearly presented, this must be known and it is directly related to this topic. And speaking of what's been assigned or not, it's enough in these discussions, but also in the light of the laws to look at Article 11, it seems to me, the Fiscal Council Act, to notice that you have a chance if you want to revise certain things, but of course you haven't done it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10137	Debate, Milica Marković. Here, we have a minister who would like to speak to you, but here's some proposal that was ours after all the debates. Is something going to help debate if, here's 22 sorry, we can give the word to the Minister of Finance and see if it helps, and hopefully, it will. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10138	...presidents, members of the College, distinguished MPs and fellow ministers. Thank you for the opportunity to address and give about a brief summary of how this Budget was made and what were yesterday's main issues at the Committee, perhaps I will facilitate and give the right direction and relieve this honorable House of debate which sometimes have no basis for that. Here's what I'm gonna say. So the Council of Ministers held at the 33rd session, held on 03.12.2015, it was the 3rd session to discuss the budget, and we then adopted the draft budget. The budget framework is limited and at the level of the 2015 budget, and we have had one restrictive approach both in determining the expenditure ceiling and in considering the approval of all budgetary requirements. The BiH presidency established in session 17.12 a draft that was sent here, to Parliament, and yesterday there were two technical corrections, one at Mr Bećirović's intervention, one, uh, technical error and the contribution of this material that you are considering. What may be most important should be said that this draft is in line with the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. It is also part of the global framework of the fiscal balance sheet and policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2018 and the document of the Framework Budget for the same period. We know that the global fiscal framework brings the Fiscal Council under the Fiscal Council Act, and it has established these budgetary limits. True, it also states in the Decision that if incomes from indirect taxes grow, the upper limit can be corrected and that is within the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council. The first year, meaning the DOP, which was adopted in the sixth month of this year, placed on the Ministry of Finance's website and then became available to everyone, is also the preliminary way of budgeting for 2016. In making the budget itself, the requirements of the institutions, which are budgetary users, have exceeded the amount by 139 million compared to the planned one, to the upper limit of the budget. We have had an extremely restrictive approach when approving funds, especially as regards new employment, and I will say the exact data to which the institutions refer, so you will see that for all institutions, according to our and the Bureau's assessment, it is simply justified. I must say that all the bases for budgeting are based on the adopted decisions of the Council of Ministers, which are regulated, among other things, and salaries and all fees, all labour rights, and also represent sublegal acts, the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, which I gave to Mr Sokolović's inquiry yesterday at the Committee. So the biggest demand for an increase was by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Human Rights, related to the implementation of Annex VII. And I must say that during this year, thanks to the activities of all and the ministries, in particular the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, we have provided large amounts of grants and credit and witnesses, and through the public, to work on implementing aid to this return population. Of the significant increases, I will only tax on some, it means the Ministry of Defence, an increase of 4.8 million, refers to the obligations provided for by the Armed Forces Act and a large amount there goes for jubilee awards that are legal, prescribed legal obligations. The increase refers to the 160 thousand Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor's Office 500 thousand. These are funds which are also financed by employees who have been paid from grant funds so far. The foreign trade ministry and economic relations for 200,000 in co-operation with economic chambers means grenades for fair events, primarily 23 held outside. The Veterinary Office 0.4 million, these are... for the ear tags for cattle and the means for making projects that will refer to the list of cattle, and that is one of the European obligations. The foreign ministry 0.7m and 700m, the Ministry of Communications and Treasury 1.2m, mostly refers to information and all that is needed in the coming period. The Directorate for indirect taxation of 6.4 million, and concerns the maintenance of facilities at border crossings and part of training for the cost and employment of new people, as currently in the Administration about 200 people are working under the Treaty of Action. And... just to take advantage of the opportunity because I didn't have, we had a meeting about management, the whole college, and what we talked about crossings, we agreed on even some decisions, but here's not to bother this course. The ministry of human rights and refugees 150 thousand for the creation of a strategy to fight poverty, the civil affairs ministry 1.9 million, of which a five-based grant increase is the subject of a 1.8m public tender. The justice ministry has 4 million marks, as it is due to be put into office by the end of the year, and it will also get rid of accommodation, through the BiH Prosecutor's Office's accommodation, and a total of 200 people will be employed in prison. The 2.1 million border police, the majority of which refers to the admission to a steady working relationship of 120 cadets that have passed training, and the purchase of uniforms for them, are now moving into a permanent working relationship. CEC 3.9 million for local elections, the Office for Consideration of Appeals 600,000 for the establishment of branches in Mostar and Banja Luka and for new employees in... institutions. Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities 300 thousand, Anti-Corruption Agency 100 thousand, Council of State Aid 100 thousand, IDDEEA for a million, for translation services and what is needed. For other users, increases are smaller and are mainly related to increases, smaller increases. The UNDP's paragraph of compliant commitments of 1.4 million was established as an agreement and agreement was reached, as commitments to the UNDP since '95 were made. They haven't been paid at all. This was a huge financial risk. We've won, we've made a quality agreement and we're starting to pay back some of the debt, and at the same time we've been released from distribution by 2025. The funds were also booked here, as the BiH Presidency confirmed its maintenance sponsorship... And that's where we've secured, so 400,000 on the reservation item and in the next three years 500 grand each. ... space was created in a way that reduced expenditure resources, primarily in IDDEEA almost 10.7 million due to the completion of mass replacement of personal documents and by transferring certain items and capital investments to multi-annual capital investments. In total, the sum of sumarum, compared to 2015, is 32.4 million marks, a reduction of 18.5 million marks. So the real difference is 13.9 million. The component of the budget is Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt service, which is 770 million. It is higher by 157 million or 26% compared to the 2015 budget. Of these, 497 million are the Federation's obligations, Republika Srpska's obligations are 264 and 4,700,000 are the obligations of the Brcko District. As far as employment itself is concerned, there are big questions. So a total increase in the number of employees by 365 is foreseen. Of this, the Justice Ministry 200 employees for the state administration, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection 37 police officers for training cadets and transitioning to police officials, the Border Police, I have already said, 100, the BiH Court 9, is related to the employment of people who will work cases related to all forms of terrorism. All new employment above this number is prescribed in Article 14. The Budget Law and International Obligations in a way that is equally approved by the Council of Ministers and no new employment can be without justification and a political standoff and a Council of Ministers decision. And I repeat again, and I said that we were doing a protocolal draft of the Budget, also here are respected, about these costs that were often the subject of the debate, we respected all the provisions and effects that came to the rules on the purchase of official vehicles, 24 specialized vehicles, fixed-phone costs, maintenance of the vehicle, and others, and using a team where you will see by implementing the budget for this year that large savings have been made. There were also a lot of questions about why there was no income from a larger Central Bank. The central bank makes a decision under the Central Bank Act and is prescribed that 60% of the profits are paid in the BiH Institutions' Budget, which was made on the basis of their document and included in the budget. It was a question of restructuring, which I must say is that budget restructuring is done on the basis of Article 16. The law on the financing of institutions and... changes in economic categories are shown in documents, the report on the implementation of the Budget, which the Council of Ministers delivers quarterly, half-yearly and annually, and to the Bureau and the Parliamentary Assembly half-yearly and the public and transparency of all changes and changes related to the budget. It was also a question of why there was no increase in the budget on the committees, for example, the Centre. to remove mines and the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination fight against corruption. We can't increase the budget when someone doesn't ask for an increase. So, specifically for these two institutions, the budget has been met and what is required is given so that we didn't consider what is not required to be classified. As far as current grants are concerned within the framework of budgetary users, this has a legal basis which is contained in the laws, decisions of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, as well as international agreements relating to concessions. When, as regards the current reserve, I would like to stress that the distribution is regulated by Article 17. The law on the financing of institutions and the corresponding conclusion of the Pralmentary Assembly shall be submitted on a regular basis to the Report on the Implementation of the same Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, in order to take account of the transparency of the spending of these funds. Another question was – why were the reduced direct transfers and the allocated funds for the withdrawal of IPA funds. This is the result of the new approach that the European Commission has... is the instrument, on behalf of IPA 1, which was valid until 2013, it was necessary for the country's beneficiary of the funds from its budget to secure a certain amount of funding on behalf of the co-financing of projects, which depended on the type of project, so our participations were between 5% and 25%. Under IPA 2 which was valid in 2014 according to the approved programming documents, co-financing is only necessary to ensure payment of entrance tickets for community programmes participating Bosnia and Herzegovina, e.g. Horizon 2020, Erasmus, Creative Europe, Cosmics, Europe for citizens, which represents a significantly smaller amount compared to the previous period. The 2016 budget, as well as the subsequent periods in this position, will plan the funds needed to pay all the entrance tickets for Community programmes, the remaining funds needed to finance IPA 1 projects whose implementation is under way. Here, I've only given technical things, clarifications, and I hope I've removed some ambiguities about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10139	Thank you, Minister, for the reasons of the draft budget and for the international obligations of the BiH institutions for 2016. Now we're moving on to the debate. The word has a representative, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10140	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 25 Before I begin the discussion on the Budget Proposal, I need to say that it is not right on your part as a Kolegijum that you have allowed the Council of Ministers' representative to speak for almost 15 minutes about the data we have in the material in front of us, it is reading some of the items we have already read, and you have limited the MPs to 5 minutes to vote today and to make known about this document. But maybe you don't think discussing MPs today is so important. Let me move on to the draft budget that's ahead of us today. First of all, I want to say that the only thing that's good about the proposed material is that we will probably have adopted the Budget Proposal for the following year before 01.01.2016. And another important element for this draft budget is that it is, however, within 950 million when it comes to budgetary users, which is the basis and framework of the budget that it was and in some previous period, as far as we know in this summary, is that since 2011, when the Fiscal Council established this framework, here I see that today, that is, according to this plan for 2016-2018, it continues to adhere to this framework. It's the only thing that can be singled out as a definition, to say that it's important in a positive sense for the Budget Proposal. Everything else I think is very debateable and very problematic in the proposed items. It has been expected that in the overall economic and social and financial environment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is now located, the majority behind this document is being treated rationally, that it behaves extremely economically and economically, which I do not think is the case in this proposal. It is true that the budget in which he had in the previous period is different, but everything else is different than it was in some previous period, even more drastically as we see it here by the paragraphs. We have maločas heard from the Registrar that for one of the remarks most often heard in discussions of previous speakers, this is new employment on the burden of budgets and budgetary institutions which are budget users, that in this respect the Council of Ministers was extremely restrictive. I think you're completely, that you're wrong, Mr. Secretary, because the items and numbers you've given us here speak the opposite and the other way around. You may have intended, but the fact that you showed us in the material doesn't seem to say that the relationship between this assembly majority and those who were setting up this Budget Proposal was actually a wasteful relationship with the budget funds and the funds that would be received by budget users, and that the main and basic, main and basic orientation in setting up the framework of budgetary users was new employment. In this House, we had a conclusion some two, three years ago when it came to the budget for some of the years in that period that we discussed, that new income and employment were suspended in the budgetary institutions on the burden of the Budget of BiH during the period while Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the phase of the economic crisis and until economic recovery. We see today that in each of the following budgets these items are increasing, and that is how I will then illustrate it from item to item, and we have just heard the explanation that the minister said, there are new employment needs to happen because budget institutions in some pertual period or financed people from grants or financed them under the Treaty of Action, and now in budgets of Budget 2016, this must be legalised through receiving in a permanent working relationship. I ask the question – from whom did they get consent as budget users to receive someone by contract of action? And even worse than that, how does the Council of Ministers now accept and legalise that whoever is admitted under the Act Treaty or who is financed from the grant is now admitted to a permanent working relationship in the budgetary institution? Here you have items and figures that say that all and one ministry in the Council of Ministers has increased, and this has dramatically increased funds on the items for gross wages and for travel expenses and other remunerations to employees. The only one of these, to say the major budget beneficiaries of the Parliamentary Assembly, has been reduced that item by a million marks. And what I have mentioned now 26 to the Parliamentary Assembly, I am not doing this for a reason because I am sorry that these funds have been reduced, let them, if they are to be saved in this country, then we should all be saving, but I am saying this because of the Centre of Civil Initiatives and other NGOs that 80% of their reports focus on the MPs and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that our salaries are large, that we are not doing anything, how we are wasteful and how we travel, and this document says that from the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly, the parliamentary assembly is reducing funds, and the Council of Ministers and Ministries is increasing. However, of course in your practical life you have that people expect certain services, benefits from some, and of course they tend to comment on someone's other salaries and receipts, but since MPs are not able and are not in the need to offer any service or benefit, then of course we are at the office of some who comment on it and publicly express such views as they are. If it hadn't been for that, of course, I wouldn't have mentioned this item. As for the others, I must say
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10141	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10142	that it is extremely symptomatic here, and I am saying this because of the SDS and because of the Alliance for Change, that in this budget they have also allowed the funds for the Court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Constitutional Court of BiH to increase and thus on behalf of the items for gross wages and compensation. It is very difficult here for the BiH Constitutional Court to increase funds by 164 thousand weeks after the Constitutional Court made a very problematic decision against Republika Srpska. And I am now asking you the SDS question - is this a reward for the Constitutional Court for rewarding them for such a decision they made against Republika Srpska? In my opinion it is, and you're doing it together with the SDA who has great reasons to reward the Constitutional Court for such decisions that they make. Not to speak now, since time is limited, of other agencies and institutions with budgets that have been increased, and we know they haven't done anything, they haven't even justified what they got in 2015. Such an eclectic example is the Statistics Agency, which has also increased 30 thousand in salary and 20 thousand in travel costs this year. So, all in the name of personal incomes, and here we can see that this agency is unable to complete the work of a list that it has received for the first time in history since it exists in two years. She didn't do it either, and her funds are increasing. That we do not speak of others whose reports we have never even heard of, I have never heard a report in this House or concrete results from the work of some agencies and institutions, and they are still increasing funds. I think it is very problematic that this assembly majority, led by certain large parties such as the SDS from Republika Srpska and the SDA, leads to a very, very problematic economic situation and the social state of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what you are doing. You used to complain to the SNSD when it came to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, so it says why we should vote against them when their funds increase. Here, now you're doing it, and last year your mouth was full of stories about the SNSD tearing down the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and our authorities grew their funds. So why didn't you gentlemen change it now and warn when you were talking so much? You didn't tell the truth and tell the story for a story. And everything else you from Republika Srpska are working against the Republic... 27
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10143	Debate, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10144	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. When a debate is being held in one country on the subject of the budget, then all ministers are present, all MPs are very eager to say their views and opinions about it, and we are probably unique to what the country is, and what country we are in, that this is the last thing that we are interested in and wait for, we can't wait to take that item off our backs, adopt the budget the way we... intend and end up with that story. The ultimate inconsistency is that of one budget that Parliament sees now and once again when it is over, that is when the report on the implementation of the budget comes. There is no country that can say that there is no decision on any cost made within the executive authority without Parliament knowing it, does not exist. So, my dear colleagues and colleagues, we do an unworthy job for which we are chosen. This isn't a story that's about this political moment, it's my story every time it's a budget story. So the relationship with things has to change. Those who cheer say they care about Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not worry about the way you defend it. So, talk about the budget by putting down, uh, such a law and leaving so short an opportunity for MPs to study this kind of law, and you end up bringing it down to 5 minutes, and leaving a delusion to the Finance and Budget Commission to discuss it in two readings, because the basic legislative process and envisaged to consider the budget is extremely inappropriate. So, I don't know what you're thinking and probably what we're saying doesn't really matter to you, but it's important to the public. The other thing I'm saying is, it's not Budget BiH 950 million, it's not. It's a number that's in circulation and in that number besides mostly the funds from, from a single 750 million account, there's always that phantom figure that's called transferred surplus funds from previous years. So we do not have the right to rebalance the budget, because Bosnia and Herzegovina, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to have as much funds as they need to finance institutions. But we always have a bag on the side, that's that bag where the funds are for God's Bog, and that's where Parliament's funding is, over which Parliament has no control at all. So with that, with that number and some other small amounts, we get to 950 million. But then comes the funds not covered by the proposed framework, which includes the amount allocated to budget users from 121 to 122 million. Well, logically, we have a budget increase for all the ministries, so we haven't skipped a single ministry to say, here we are not this year that all ministries have an increase. Was it necessary for all the ministries to have? The finance minister says -- we shouldn't have given it to the Demining Agency and the Corruption Prevention Agency. Well, I have to tell you that if that's not an indication to you that half a million people in this country are at risk of mines and you need someone to write it down specifically, then it's unfortunate, then we have in the executive government that we don't know what's going on and what's our biggest problem in the country. If we have the position of the Anti-Corruption Agency that there is no political agreement that it begins to work, even though a letter of the Council of Ministers has now come back that says it will not solve its space, then I ask you – is that necessary, what kind of request should it be? So, you're inconsistencies, you said you'd be dealing with these questions that I'm talking about. You said you'd be dealing with corruption issues. So show concrete where the budget is and when it comes to strengthening these institutions, don't arrest, political arrest people, but show an example where it shows itself. The other thing I want to say is a job-related thing. So 365 new workers, so 31.12 is planned for 28.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10145	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10146	Here, I bring the end, here it is, it is planned that 31.12.2015. has 22.672 employees employed, and 2016. 23,037. It is 365 new employees, although the famous sentence remains that nothing will happen if the Council of Ministers, that they will not allow the employment of any new employee unless a decision is made at the Council of Ministers. So there are a lot of things that should change, and that's why you haven't left time. The amendment phase, which, if you intend to obviously after this to be given, remains insufficient to change anything. I wish you a happy New Year and with this budget in the hope that you will fulfill those promises that have been made in the exhibition of the chairman and your political views that you make publicly in the media.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10147	The debate, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10148	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. I would like to touch on a little bit of this fiscal framework that my colleague Magazinović mentioned, because here is Minister Bevanda himself, said there is a possibility of enlargement, meaning increasing that framework. We ourselves know that last year has been a record of tax collection by the Direct Taxation Authority and that we had about 6.5 billion collected taxes, but there has been no increase in the framework for the Budget Institutions of BiH. I'm sorry that the SDA doesn't see its guilt, because there are their people sitting in the Fiscal Council who have allowed themselves to play with the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way. Definitely when I talk about this budget, there are things that have been determined anomalies. I agree in some things and with my colleague Marković, but I do not see that we are also in favour of what we talked about in the closed, special session of the BiH Parliament, I do not see an increase in the BiH Court. So I'm simply thinking that there should be a trend to follow the prosecutor's increase in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and must follow the trend in increasing the number of judges involved in the BiH Court's guilt. We know ourselves now that we have around 23 or 24 judges working on these 59 judges in the BiH Court, and we have about 70 prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So it's hard to have these certain effects besides everything we know is waiting for us and expecting us. We have salary increases and increases in the ministry's salaries and fees in all, although I do not see that these increases are accompanied by police agency institutions and security agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one has ever talked about how much the salaries of police officers, inspectors and others have been adjusted with the salaries of their colleagues at entity levels. There we have huge differences even if the salary in the same rank in the state institution is half the salary of the same man with the same rank in ethnic police agencies and institutions. In my view, it all leads to a conscious collapse of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security and security system. takoċe, here we have all of us at the OSA Control Commission, so their emergency is that they've been stripped of 30,000 KM of their resources to maintain specialist equipment. Is it in anyone's interest that the Security Intelligence Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't do its job, whether someone wants us to have, besides our girl's pawnage of all in Parliament, that for better work, continue their work, but do not want to work simply. We have at the Directorate for indirect taxation salary increases, fees enormously, and this increase is not accompanied by salary increases and 29 act in agencies such as SIPA, Intelligence Agency and Police Coordination Directorates. So we have, we see in this number, so no one talks... when we have less income at this level, it means about 9 million compared to last year. We have an enormous increase in debt which is over 170 million more compared to last year, with the Federation participating with over 100 million, Republika Srpska with over 50 million. Definitely this Budget niche is restrictive, especially as regards employment, and especially what counterpart Sokolović said to the Commission yesterday, to reintroduce the regress for employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have a coefficient of over 4. I, too, ask the Council of Ministers to make a decision and to abolish that regression for all those who have the coefficient to account for the salary over 4. So these are restrictions, is that what this regression is going to help us go, push that reform agenda and work on Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path? I don't think so. Small savings are planned here, because there is simply no responsibility in the ministries of people working in those ministries. I hope that sometimes we will get, again, and the Law on civil servants and tenants, so let's see who all the secretaries are, who all the ministerial assistants are, what these people have been doing for years in these ministries and who they work for, whether they work for this country or work for private groups, interests, companies, international capital, for whom these people work here? So we have a reduction and income from interest here, which is how I got into trouble on the Commission yesterday, from one million to two hundred, I think. I think we all know that savings interest, deposited funds are fixed, especially on an annual level. I don't know where from now on, who signs those contracts, in which commercial banks put that deposit of funds from both the BiH budget and the BiH institutions. I hope that sometimes we will get that answer in which banks have been deposited the funds, who signed those contracts and under what conditions for the Budget of BiH. We also see that this has led to the collapse of domestic banks from which Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy could also be financed, as simply commercial banks do not place loans to business entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, but only to citizenship. I hope sometimes you'll have more hearing in budget-making, especially, I say again, like you fellow SDP colleagues these
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10149	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10150	breast-feeding favour Bosnia and Herzegovina, that you will try to increase the fiscal framework for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this goes both into development projects and to strengthen the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10151	Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10152	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you so much for cutting me and my colleagues five minutes, 800 pages in seven days, 100 pages a day, page five minutes, it took us 9.5 hours a day to study this, 9.5. I told you a bill, 800 pages, 100 pages a day, on page 5 minutes, 9.5 hours a day, and now you need to elaborate in 5 minutes and prepare everything and say everything. The only thing I can say here is that what we're doing here is we can't say anything, because we don't have a chance to compare to the exposé, we don't have a chance to speak studioically, because here's Damir started and where he ended up. So I'm not even going to start, because this kind of document, something called the budget, is something that's the most important document in the realisation for next year, and we're going to have to name it by letting you look at it with your eyes and raise your hand. I thank Mr. Bevanda, but what he was saying, he's not here, we've been friends, friends, acquaintances for more than 40 years, but it has nothing to do with what he's been saying. I know that legal obligations must be made, and I know that what's being framed by existing laws is something that needs to be realized, but then we have what's left. Niko one mentions the returnees, here I see there's no minister here, no one mentions school, no one mentions what's at the level of state, culture and sport, no one mentions in that order. This is simply why I will not vote in favour of the budget and the political option that is facing what is called the social categories and that social one, it is socially against the citizens of this country, or the Bosnian-Herzegovina patriotic party Sefer Halilović will not support it in this way. We want to participate, we're Parliament, we're not the body that's here just to raise hands and to nod and amino. If we are, then there's no need to come, make us a remote vote. If we're just here an instrument that will raise your hand and be in, then it's pointless to exist, because you've made your majority feel like we already have an instrument, and what is given to people who want to read, who want to participate in all of this, you just ignore and you don't give people a chance to participate in what they're supposed to do, what they're supposed to do. Well, since it's impossible for what I've told you about time, what we've got, if this is what we've got, it's simply impossible and I'd like to see here an MP who's managed to study this material in seven days' time, I'd really like to see it. I like to read it all, but I'm very interested in it, but this isn't mere reading, this is a much more studio analysis. Look at this, this font we've been given, we need to have eagle eyes to read all of this, to compare the item to the item, to compare the position with the order, and to eventually make suggestions, or, now that you've brought us into position, the amendments to improve the version of this budget. Well, since it's impossible to do that, I say once again, the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party does not want to take part in it and will not vote in this way for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10153	Controversy, đorċo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10154	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers. I would like to say that the OSA Commission unanimously supported the proposed OSAA budget in 2016, and that the 2016 Budget Law, which was sent to the parliamentary procedure by the BiH Presidency, lacks an amount of 30 000 KM in the framework of the OSA item, compared to the one supported by the Commission. What's this about? It appears to be a small amount, and we have been informed from the Intelligence Service that it has taken down expenses for ongoing maintenance, i.e. the amount of maintenance equipment that has previously been purchased and requires a special maintenance regime. Subject equipment is expensively paid and the work of equipment and operations based on its use has been compromised if the equipment is not maintained in a regulated manner. Respecting the complex circumstances in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, especially all the dangers that we are, as we are pictured by terrorism, etc., etc., indicates that this amount, which is not truly large, should be settled, that is, this item to identify the OSAs of BiH, respecting the importance of the service itself, and all the challenges 31 we face. Well, I don't know here, dear minister, can he just give us an answer - can these funds be settled from the budget reserves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10155	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10156	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. I would like to say a few words about the proposed budget that we have received here, as my colleagues also said late, to express my dissatisfaction and content and budget creation, and in particular to express my dissatisfaction that we cannot participate in creation in any way, or here is how the vice-president, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, said earlier, in a better budget. So we can't participate, we can just talk about it, point out the good, or the bad, and press the key. What I said on the Commission I will repeat now, as long as it allows. Based on the basis of the draft budget of the institutions for 2016 and this is among other documents the Global Policy Framework in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2018 concluded between the Council of Ministers, the government of entities, at a meeting of the Fiscal Council. This document lays down a total framework of 950 million. It means that the expenditure ceiling is derived from the document of the Framework Budget, which the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers' Treasury made up on the basis of this Global Fiscal Framework, means, in June 23rd, it stands here in 2015. Therefore, the ruling structure is strengthened because of Republika Srpska and SNSD entities has defined this Global fiscal framework. And, in my view, it is not enough, in any case, to strengthen the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be effective on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU, but it is probably effective because of social problems to strengthen entities, and I think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be overly concerned, or the Council of Ministers, which we voted on, in creating a budget to take care of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than entities. And on that side Mr. Magazinović is right, I support him in that part of all the words he said, and I said them when we criticised that authority, criticised the SDP and talked about Bosnia and Herzegovina in a wheelchair if such a fiscal framework is established. That's said and it doesn't need to run away, I'm not one of those people who burns one and the other today, I have my way, and here in these benches it's Bosnia and Herzegovina and her strength. When you enter into an analysis of this budget, you see that the salaries and fees are 665 million, travel costs 14.6, phones 8.7 or current expenses 840 million. The question is, what about those 100 million, are they enough to develop or fulfill someone's wishes? I'm sure it's not enough to develop the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because here's how we and in what way, uh, we should at least think we're strengthening the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security, the visas of all the things that stand in the reform agenda. And here's to say, I don't forget, so two things are very important, one was mentioned by Mr. Bećirović, I'm going to submit here a proposal for a conclusion, I don't think it's correct if it says that the starting basis for the formation and the austerity measure of the institutions that the Fiscal Council agreed with the IMF is that here as a coward's egg, we have a 300-mark regression. 32 So, the Council of Ministers in the last term for all those who have a coefficient of 4 and more have determined a regression of 1 mark. Do we need the MPs again, here I call my colleagues, to be the subject of public ridicule because someone has not asked us to install a 300-mark regression there? Will we solve our existence in such a way, will we feel a better quality sea if we go? We won't, but we will bring upon ourselves an additional shame. I propose that the House of Representatives assigns the Council of Ministers to correct this decision and that the decision that it has already adopted, because of Budget, corrects and that all employees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have a coefficient of 4 and more establish a regress for 2016 1 mark. It'll be a principle then, then we'll say that we're consistent with that story, the follow-up to that story about saving. Otherwise we won't be consistent, this will come out, and if I hadn't said it or if Mr Bećirović hadn't said it, in public, then in a month we'd be subject,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10157	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10158	The subject of ridicule. I don't think that's good. Here's what Backović says, there's more to talk about, but it's a short time and I thank you for these five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10159	Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10160	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, the correction of the wrong quote from the presentation of fellow Sokolović who said one, something he said is true, but something I want to replicate is not true. So, he said the SNSD participated in the formation of this framework for the Budget of BiH, referring to 950 million related to the consumption of BiH institutions, which is true. But at that moment, we reacted restrictively as we expect the current assembly majority to react restrictively in the overall economic and social environment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located. And we felt at that point that it was justified to reduce the budget of BiH in a situation where we have all the economic crisis and financial difficulties that are happening in this society, submitted entity budgets, Mr Sokolović. You were just saying something and it seemed like you weren't listening to yourself. You expect the Budget of BiH to be social, to be developmental, and you know that this budget is funded by budget users, nothing more. Social, developmental, every other component in society is funded by entity budgets. Is that an unknown fact to you after so many parliamentary mandates and how much you're in politics? So it's not that you object to entity budgets and object to the fact that entity budgets are bigger. Well, of course it will be bigger when they finance both the police and the health care, and education and everything, all the people who work in this society and who carry this society on their own, and in Budžet BiH you have, say, BiH Health Protection Authority, which last year had 960,000, and in this year there will be 1,200,000. What is the effect of this Plant Protection Authority, what are the effects of the work and of the Administration and what society, what do the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina feel, what is the bonus of 33 of their work? Or let's say the BiH Employment Agency, which next year will cost budget users 1.139, and they have increased funds, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina you have 500,000 unemployed and they are, of course, the problem and burden of political parties, entity governments, entity employment bureaus and others, but you are now funding agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are pulling millions of funds, and many of them citizens of this country feel absolutely no effect or improvement in everyday life.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10161	Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10162	This is a replica, the ones that did this to us didn't put any replicas anywhere. I can't figure out where the replica is, but I don't see the problem that they couldn't put that word in one of these columns because it's probably possible, but here they signed it, they say, from the Rules of Procedure, they're suggesting to me. But here, let me say a few words, to fit in with this one, and to all those who in any way called the SDA and fellow Sokolović for what he said. It is true that I personally said that Bosnia and Herzegovina was in a wheelchair, but that was about three years ago when the SDP leader saved his chair, went to Banja Luka and set limits and the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget framework for that year, and the deal was signed with Milorad Dodik. And at this point we have the situation that we have, we have the fiscal council that makes its decisions by consensus. In that fiscal council, I hope you know what composition they have and that this threshold or patent, as I said last time, was established, is now very difficult to change. So I ask them that well, especially fellow Magazinović to put the film back a little bit and see the causes, consequences and who is the culprit that Bosnia and Herzegovina can't have a different budget. Those standards were set really three years ago, they have records, they have agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10163	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10164	with parties and should only read them or possibly recall them. It's safe in the archives and SDPs and archives of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10165	I will not correct my kolega Ahmetović after he himself has corrected himself in terms of replication and correction of the wrong quote. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10166	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Milica Marković. So last time I said it, and then we had statistical data that the entities in one single number, right, had a larger number of employees, and for that reason they needed funds. I don't have that data right now, but I guess, and here I am looking closely and closely at the entity parliaments, and I see that this issue has also been discussed. I guess one part of the assets of the entities needs it for that, too. The other thing is the policy that entities run, 34 take over too many rights and obligations in the social segment so they don't know how to get out of that situation. But what's important, here's when you gave me the opportunity to say, the Council of Ministers, or the Presidency that proposed this budget, was more justly to say, should have taken care of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security in one different way than with these figures that we have here. Do we know that lately we've only been using the Armed Forces to help the people, whether it's a fire, whether it's a flood, etc. I proposed last time and one of my amendments was procurement or helicopters or, I said, hydrotractors that are suitable for Bosnia and Herzegovina's space to resist these fires that we have. You should've taken care of that. We're talking about the fight against terrorism and crime, but here I'm asking you how we're going to make this fight effective with this kind of salary employed by security agencies, with this kind of equipment of these same people, how to counter that fight. So, we just write down we're going to fight terrorism, we're looking for something to look like terrorism, and we're going to beat up for months on TV, and when we have to budget those people in SIPA or other security agencies to give them more money, because they're separated from their homes, then we don't have those funds in the budget. For this reason, I am dissatisfied, for this reason I think that in a different way this budget could be created and that co-operation with Parliament would certainly be better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10167	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10168	I thank the chairman. I must look back on the findings of the distinguished Mrs. Marković and her remark on why the budget of the Plant Protection Office has been increased and what its results are. I would remind you that in July, the EU allowed the export of potatoes to the EU thanks to the results of the office. And that's commendation. I don't have that problem, at the head of that office was the SNSD and he did his job well, and that's the result of the four-year program that the Director of the Office announced, which was conducted by that Office and we have that result. We still have a lot of work to do to ensure that other agricultural products, plant products, can also be carried out in the EU, which the Office should do. And thanks to this Veterinary Office, our agricultural producers have placed some of their products in the EU. As for the earlier finding on the increase in the BiH Prosecutor's Office's budget, I will remind you that at the time of the SNSD authorities, the prosecution's budget was increased, so to employ 13 new prosecutors in the War Crimes Department. We agreed this time because we have all admitted here that this country has a problem with both terrorist threats and we have agreed to increase the budget for terrorism, to hire new prosecutors to fight terrorism. Dear colleague, I'll just look back briefly, Bećirović asked how it flows more and more every year than VAT, and we don't see it. We don't see them because that's what this item says here, the service of external debt, because unfortunately the duties of entities are getting bigger and bigger every year, so just to see what the situation in local communities is, in municipalities, cantons, their incomes from VAT are getting smaller and smaller each year. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10169	Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10170	I turned out to be constantly replicating Mr Ahmetović, among other things you should read the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica in the Rules of Procedure. So this is how it's written here is well written, and the replica is something that we've profilingly called that that's how it is. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But you haven't read it, Mr Ahmetović, or the fiscal framework in which it was written that income growth can increase the budget each year. And I remind you, I don't, of course, defend Lagumdžija from you or that place or the story, but he's not the only one who signed, all the participants and... have made a fiscal framework '11-'15. and in it, Article 11, Mr Ahmetović, predicted that this could be resolved. So, what you prefer to Mr. Džaferović I suppose Lagumdžija used, therefore only possible, by not taking away anyone's right to have an opinion and a framework, but also the basis that each year the budget can be changed according to the means available. So do it, and we expect you to be much better than us and to give this country a better budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10172	We already have.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10173	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10174	Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, ministers. In fact, I don't know if now is a moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels,...he comes very quickly to, that there is some change of concept, some new vision. We lie to ourselves and to the public, these are the budgets without vision, these are the budgets of the inert. The only constant and goal is Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, all the rest imposes time. Well, I can't keep priorities the same for years. If we want reforms, not just here, it's not a problem, I'm surprised when people say the budgetary framework is the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, the institutions for which money is sought are not; they are in surplus today, so we have transferred incomes. They're not... their own capacities to spend the money they're given, and I don't think they need any more money. So what's wrong with us saying that we're going to reduce 30% employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. You know what that's saving? 60 million. That we're going to cut 30 percent of the salary the public says is big, so here's 30 million. That's 90 million. So we will strengthen the Directorate for European Integration, so the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency, the Agency for the Construction of the rule of law, etc. Let's not pretend. It's not a little money... I didn't make it in my term, I'm not accusing anyone, I'm not. And that's why I prayed we didn't have personal access to the budgets. The previous presidency gave us back the budget with a demand of up to 30 million to iron it, and this reduced the reserve and took a little for the intervention reserves. Different approach, people. So there is not little money, reforms mean, and I argue, the Council of Ministers and Governments that implement such reforms will be a short term. But it's a mistake for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 36 When governments pay the cost of the country's social status at all levels, count on us taking the first step in reforms, this is a fake. Not only here, but there's room,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10175	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10176	First you cut your salary 30%, reduce your employment 30%, and this year we make a decision to hire at least two new ministries. Come on, guys, we're not consistent and please nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10177	Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10178	I had to answer and say that the public in Republika Srpska will not be very concerned, i.e. he does not care much about this explanation that Aleksandra Pandurević presented about what will be spent by the Office for Health Protection of the New 200,000 Marks she has received, but he will be very upset and will be very concerned today when she sees SDS and Aleksandra Pandurević voting in favour of a budget in which the BiH Constitutional Court was rewarded with 250,000 marks for the verdict they have made and which they directly hit the foundations of Republika Srpska and the citizens of Republika Srpska. That's why Republika Srpska's going to get sore. And the SDS today needs to explain why it supports such a budget and why it allowed that item to pass, rather than explain Aleksandra Pandurević here what kind of potato is being exported, whether it is healthy or not, and whether it needs 200,000 or not. They should say why they are rewarding the BiH Constitutional Court today for the shameful decision it made against Republika Srpska. This is what the SDS should explain today, not this minor explanation, because what they are doing today means when they vote this budget together with the rest of the Federation, they all lied about what they said in Banja Luka that they were against the Constitutional Court and their decisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10179	Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10180	I have no intention of politicizing anything special with my colleague Mešić, but here he is at this session as well as at the previous one, he has a need to clarify some views. And I appreciate that, so SDP, but I really have to tell you, it's hard to fix everything you've broken in the last three or four years. If you take reports on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards the EU, you will see what the reports are as you conduct the processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And take the liberty of reading the Agreement SDP made with SNSD and where the Fiscal Framework is defined. It's very difficult now from that position and from that level, which the SDP then set, to change. We pointed to that at the time, but you did not know or should not have told your president to work against the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I've read the Rules of Procedure, and you'll see Article 76(2), so I'm right, so take it and read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10181	Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10182	Here, I publicly promise not to replicate to Mr Ahmetović again, I have done enough. But Mr. Ahmetović, sitting in some cabinet for an hour and a half and discussing what Mr. Magazinović said makes no sense, and you did it this time. I have the impression that by hitting on SDP's staff, which absolutely makes no sense or measure, nothing, you're fixing your position in the Party of Democratic Action, I wish you, all of us are guilty of progress as much as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10183	Debate, Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10184	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to welcome you all and wish you a successful session today. Namely, what is important to me is that we have this Budget by 31.12.2015, so that we respect the legal standard that is defined in the Budget Act. What's not good is that we didn't respect the budget in the sense that we define that it is adopted, that is, bringing 10 steps and 5 principles. So those 10 steps that start in the sixth month until 31.12 when we now have it here in Parliament we see that there is one cavity, one void. So, I think this budget is administrative and it's also in debt. I say administrative for the simple reason that this fiscal framework of 950 million, or 750 million, as it comes from indirect taxes, is conditioned and we have 200 million which are revenues from administrative fees or non-tax revenues. There's one very interesting thing here, that year after year, we have an adventurous annuities that grow rapidly. We have, in the last year we defined it also on the budget, in this year the increase is 26% or 157 million compared to last year. It's really problematic to me, and for those reasons, I called it a debt budget. Otherwise, the credit burden on this budget is either 44.8% or almost 45% compared to this budget. There are also some other facts that I have to mention here, let's say a reduction in transportation fees across Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I know, in at least two terms the last one has always been said that we will rule our own heavens, that we will achieve incomes of 50, 60, etc., and so on, millions, and so forth, I see that in this year these revenues are shrinking. What it is, the minister noted that it was a matter addressed to the Central Bank. Of course, I referred the question to the Central Bank Commission yesterday for the simple reason I know that the Central Bank's profits were much higher, but here we have one situation that really small amount of payment was in 2015, and we've put the increase in this income at 80%, so only 8 million. In my opinion, the data I know was much higher income, or the Central Bank's profit than it was shown here. So, another thing is very interesting, that income from fines has been increased by as much as 45%. I'm asking myself if there's a police state here now, right? I'd also have a question when it comes to expenses. What if you ask us from the Alliance for a Better Future, of course we have an objection to the Bureau's reserves because we had it in the last budget. So in this budget, we would also prefer that, if we were to vote, we would really be against those 360,000 marks and refer them to the Institute for Research, or the Institute for Missing Persons in BiH and that they are being financially strengthened. 38 What I particularly want to point out is the fact that two or three colleagues spoke before me, when it comes to the budget, or budget rebalance. It is known that the state parliament, i.e. we do not have budget rebalances, but the restructuring of individual positions in the budget itself is evident. So we are coming into a situation where this Parliament adopts the budget and then, according to the reports of 30.06, 31.12., we get a report on what happened to the budget. Since the revision we have made over 450 recommendations, we will see that some of the items in the budget are restructured without the knowledge of this Parliament. So, I think it would be quite logical for the Council of Ministers to occasionally, whether in a month, two, three, etc.,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10185	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10186	delivers information on the restructuring of positions in the budget itself, so that we don't come into a position if someone had already rebalanced the budget and if we hadn't...... I'd have a lot more to do with the expenditures, but here's the time, we're limited in time, I hope we'll have a chance to discuss these items more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10187	Debate, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10188	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I believe that by adopting Budget for 2016 we will send an extremely good message this year and that this is extremely positive news for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the SBB will support this Budget Proposal. There is no doubt that the fact that we are adopting the Budget for next year is the result, among other things, and the stabilisation that the SBB, through its entry into power at several levels, or at all levels, has brought. takoċe, I am convinced that next year we can do much better, and I am sure that the SBB will contribute in that direction. With that in mind, I'm going to quote a few data that's very important. The Croatian Parliament held a total of 103 days in the past year when they had no elections. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held a total of 97 days, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held a total of 22 days. Even when the complicated constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina is taken into account, other congregations, or parliaments in our country, such as this, are added. The NSRS 24 days of the meeting, the Federation Parliament 17 days, again to 63 days of the session, almost twice as much as the Croatian Parliament in the last year when they had no elections in the country. I hope so, and I'm sure the work dynamics will be strengthened by the entry of the SBB into power. We had, especially in the Federation of BiH, a kind of blockade, and now it is noticeable to launch a series of processes, and adoption of the Budget at today's session is only from indicators that things are going in the right direction. A respected member of the BiH presidency, Mr Izetbegović said a few days ago that SBB's entry into power would work twice as fast. I believe and I want to believe that it is true and I hope that it will be seen by the number of working days of this House, that for 22 days, next year we are sitting for at least 44 days. And that doesn't do statistics, but I hope the Council of Ministers will double the material...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10189	I'm asking the MPs for the order. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10190	I thank the chairman, on a few occasions I wanted to say that, thank you. That the Council of Ministers will at least double our material and that we will consider it adequately, rather than break important things over our knees. We all know, I'm glad Mr. Zvizdić, the Honorable Prime Minister, has noded to this finding, because next year is particularly crucial, extremely important for the Euro-Atlantic integration process and I hope that this House will work accordingly, but also that, when the budget is concrete, the Ministry of Finance will behave in the same way. The finance ministry knows very well what your legal obligations are and I hope that next year you will deliver the draft budget to the BiH Presidency in time, so that we do not adopt it exactly the last day of the year. That's why I said it at the beginning – hopefully and I'm sure we can do better next year. And I hope that the Honorable Chairman of the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of People will behave accordingly, that it will finally put the White Bread Elimination Act, which this House has already adopted, and which has been recognised by the Chairman of the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Nations for months, without any decision by the College of the House, any other basis of the legal, business, etc., continuously refuses to put on the agenda. So if she finally does it next year, Bosnia and Herzegovina will get the first budget without going to a supposed white bread fening which is an anachronous institute that should finally be completely abolished. And all that remains, that next year in Budget we do not have a single fenning for white bread, is that the respected chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House finally put the bill adopted by this House and that this was adopted in the House of Nations and finally entered into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10191	Debate, Predrag Kožul. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Just look at the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10193	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and fellow guests, I'd like to welcome you first. When you talk about any subject of me last or last you are in danger of having to repeat something of what the predecessors have said, so I will immediately repeat that it is really about the administrative budget or, as I have said several times, the cold-drive budget of 75 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or I will use a colloquial term here – a boring budget, a budget in which there is no stress or risk on either the income or on the spending side. This luxury does not have any of the 120 other budgets in this country except for this budget indeed. And when some of the colleagues advocate more or less radical changes in the concept of this budget, and I am on a wave with them, we must honestly say that something like that needs a far greater level of political consensus in this country than we have now, a consensus that my political party, here I would say, with full energy in good faith and unreservedly stands for. And I'm glad my colleague Magazinović noticed it very well. 40 Another thing that is well noted and once again said here, because of this Parliament but also because of the public who may be listening, is the issue of employment or additional employment in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, even if something has been said about it. If we carefully promote... on page 94 and 95 of this budget we will see that this employment consists essentially of 200 people in the Ministry of Justice, for the purposes of prison units, of 100 new people in the State Border Service and about 40 new people in the SIPA. And if we're not too petty, that's it. On the other hand, all this employment, these three large items are the consequences, I would say, of several years or earlier projects. Whether it's building over-needed prison units, whether it's training and what's coming to us now – hiring cadets in these two institutions. And yet, all these three jobs are being traced by those of our plebiscitarian and declarative support for every kind of activity to increase security and fight terrorism in that country. And it really should be looked at that way. The third thing, which is also said, for this budget is important, but it is not significantly affected by it, is the level of external debt with index 126 in this budget. I said there is no risk or stress in this external debt for the BiH institutions' budget, but there are high risks and stress and negative consequences for the budgets of all other levels of government. I would therefore be pleased to use this small amount of free resources, not administrative ones in this budget, as regards different transfers or grenades, in a way that is somewhat remedied and due to this external debt, these lower levels of government and that in the first place it is viewed in this way. And even any additional money created from this conclusion by fellow Sokolović, which we will probably all support here, may be additional money that will come from the possible failure to hold local elections in 2016, and the maintenance money is envisaged, and that is what seems important to me as one structural solution, the issue of this external debt, which in 2017, as far as I have been able to read, will be even more drastic and that external debt will be even greater. And maybe in the end one banal thing, but maybe it's not banal, here's why we're here as parliamentarians. I would ask either the motionor or any professional service of Parliament to allow us to read these reports more easily. With my best wishes, I haven't found the technological opportunity to plot all these tables here today for 90 degrees so I can read, and I don't have fair objectively speaking, and not all of us, or medical physiological ways to do the same with my head. Therefore, I ask you to take this into consideration in some ways and to enable us to read these materials much more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10194	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10195	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Now, when we talk about this Budget Proposal for next year, before I do, I want to point out the commendable fact that we are discussing it before this year is over, and I am firmly convinced that we are going to adopt this proposal today. Of course, a lot of remarks could be placed on certain items in the budget, it's completely logical, depending on what aspect it looks at. I observe from the point of view that functions will improve, strengthen, and create new functions that will be extremely important in the EU's convergence process. Of course, I'm not even satisfied with the means for education, sports. They still have a number of things where it might be possible, to make an observation about it or to suggest that these things improve. But here, considering only this debate here today and the diametrically opposite attitudes, so if you want so far away and far away, there's simply no chance that these attitudes can be reconciled. And this Parliament and all institutions at the state level, and this, both Bosnia and Herzegovina can function exclusively on the compromise. When we have this in front of us, I believe that this proposal is quite satisfactory and it is quite fine, and with the new political reality, I am sure that there have been assumptions that we will still have certain shifts in our mandate, not only when it comes to the budget, but when it comes to the functioning of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and at all levels. And in order to, as he says, break all the dilemmas, I want to make it clear that the SBB Club will support this 2016 Budget Proposal with the conviction that there is a time ahead that will still bring certain shifts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be evident in the coming year, and by the end of the term I expect serious results to confirm this optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10196	Debate, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10197	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll be brief, most colleagues have brought out important things. What I can only say is that it is important for us to respect this budget framework of 950 million KM, but it concerns the way these funds are deployed, above all on the expenditure side. I believe that the Council of Ministers needed much more to do in a more favourable way... the funds and that some institutions can also be strengthened through this and their roles are much more significant. What worries us so much, the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the revision of external debt. We are, I'm sure, at a very critical stage. What kind of situation we will be in in 2016, 2017 or 2018, to repay, service external debt if Bosnia and Herzegovina now has about 9 billion exports, although some allowed percentage, hence service external debt 5% compared to this, we are already close to 10%, which is thus 770 million. With 8 billion exports and some marks, it's a worrying situation that could be even more dramatic next year. And it is necessary to create an ambience in which, therefore, more assumptions of larger exports would be created, so we could be in a situation that, not only loans, but also in another way, we can repay, therefore, or service the external debt. I'm going to say three very interesting ways of budgeting some institutions that, in some ways, can be heard. We all agreed that there are institutions that have not justified their way of existence, but how is it possible to say to the Commission for concessions that the budget is reduced by only 2%, and on the other hand, when we talk about the quality of higher education, to reduce the budget by 10% to this Agency? Or further, whether our presidency is in such a significant position that 5% of this institution's budget is increased and whether it really has an objective, it's not a large budget, but I'm saying that we have an unconsistent attitude. Therefore, we must have the courage to say why the Commission for concessions, which would be a problem if the Commission for concessions were to cut 50% of the budget or this year 30%, or what would be a problem if we said in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we would reduce costs on telephone services and others, and that this amount of 8 million and something KM by 30%, nothing we would do with a lower quality, meant the amount of about 2 and a half million KM, or I don't know about travel, fuel consumption and everything that is being used irrationally, and that the funds in this framework are directed where they could give their effect in a certain sense, which could be positive. So I think that a lot more attention should be taken to the budget's expenditure side, so that it should be adequately distributed and that it should have its full function, at least in the way it is. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10198	Thank you. There are no more reported at this time. I am finalising the debate on the draft budget of BiH institutions and BiH's 2016 international commitments.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10199	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10200	Here's the possibility that a few club presidents are checking out their representatives, because we're approaching the vote. Here, just one minute. May I have your attention, please? The draft law in the first reading is put to the vote. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 13, abstentions 4. The Federation of BiH 16 for, 7 against, 4 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and the International Obligations of BiH for 2016 was adopted in the first reading. We are now voting on the College's proposal that the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for BiH for 2016 be considered immediately in the second reading, in accordance with Article 112(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 14, abstentions 4. Federation of BiH 16 for...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10202	Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10203	Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 14, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 16 for, 8 against, 3 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted a proposal from the College to examine the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2016 immediately in the second reading, in accordance with Article 112(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on the draft law in the second reading. I'm voting on the draft law in the second reading. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 15 for, 7 against, 5 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2016, meaning in both readings, in the second reading. 43 And now we are going to vote on the conclusions of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Should I read these conclusions? I'm voting on the findings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. Of the 40 present – for 29 against 9, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 22 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Budgets and Finance. We have another conclusion from Representative Salke Sokolović. You've heard the proposal for a conclusion. Should I repeat it, read it? You've got him all on your benches. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the total 40 present – for 37.1 v, 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH, 25... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat our vote. Of the 40 present – for 35.1 versus, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 9 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Salke Sokolović. We're going to point five, not point four, sorry, ad. 4. Proposal for a conclusion from the 4th emergency session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10206	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate that in the parliamentary debate at the 4th special session, we each expressed our views in our own way and each proposed a certain type of conclusion in our own way. I am not sure, nor am I convinced that through the very implementation and discussion and the conclusion itself something more courageous has entered into the solution to this problem. We of the SNSD, esteeming the contribution of all colleagues in the debate, the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, must say that, given that the conclusions I have proposed have been accepted, they are numerically under number 2 and number 3, we will not support the conclusions if the conclusions are discussed, or stated in full on these four. We do not support the 4th conclusion because we believe there is a sufficient legal framework, currently existing in BiH, which allows all police agencies to do their jobs. The politicisation of security and judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully present here. Do some agencies do their jobs, see how. I want to remind you of the case against Prime Minister Vučić. Was the Director of the Police Body Coordination Directorate responsible, and he was in charge of security in Potocari? And now they need some new regulations, and they are not respected in this country or existing ones. Is he being replaced, was he responding? It's not. Will he? He won't. For this reason, I appeal, and since terrorism is a major problem, it is a major problem in this country, and of course the region and the environment, that, if possible, we declare ourselves individually on the proposed conclusions? Otherwise, if it is cumulatively stated on all four conclusions in the package, we will not support any of these conclusions. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10207	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10208	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As for the commentary of the esteemed Košarac, I see it in a way that refers to amendments and additions to the law. And, let's just say, when it comes to the SBB in particular, we didn't propose new laws, but we had one in the last term of an extremely important amendment and a supplement that applied to the ban on going to the side of the war, and we see how much that was useful to us as the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So when you say proposals for legal solutions, you know well that there can be a law on amendments and additions to a certain law and not necessarily now some new law that has been completely or completely treating the given matter. So, if this is about proposals for legal solutions, I have seen that we went that way every time we talked about this issue on the homeland, on committees, etc., that we kept asking the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers in general to deliver proposals that we as Parliament can do to help them, to facilitate their work in the fight against terrorism, and our job is to pass laws. And now again, I say, the amendment and the addition of the law, the bill on amendments and additions to the law, and again I return to this example, so SBBs or Radoncic's Law on the ban on going to a foreign battlefield. Probably one of the most important things in the last few years, when it comes to legal treatment of terrorism issues. So I'd like to ask you, if possible, to think that way, that's what you're thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10209	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10210	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Good part, if not everything I was going to say, he just said to a respected colleague, Arnaut. There is no ideal legal solution, we have a problem when it comes to terrorism. You need to see how to fix the laws and the existing ones. I think in criminal proceedings maybe some evidence that can't be used right now we need to make a change so it can be used. Let's just say, if the Intelligence Agency in some of its stores had access to certain knowledge without having a court order, it might be able to use that evidence. So we need to improve the existing law. I'm really asking you to keep that in mind. Do we need or do we not need the Anti-Terrorist Act? I think we need it, and we fully support that Republika Srpska will pass its law on the fight against terrorism. We need it, we need to see where we have the leaks, see how it works early, not just when it's up to us. Let's see how a terrorist act can be carried out with help, I don't know, explosives, let's see who sells that explosive and how someone can buy that explosive. Let's fix these legal penalties, make more rigorous legal penalties so that these laws have, in some ways, a preventive fact. All of it is, these are all issues that need to be resolved through changes and additions to existing laws. I'm asking you to really figure it out that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10211	Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10212	I have to say that we found it in the last debate and I'm one of those who discussed it that we're not the only country facing this problem. Even according to the estimates of world experts on the world scale of the terrorism index, we're somewhere in the middle. However, by comparing us and other countries, all countries in their programme envisaged measures, among other things, and legislative changes to certain solutions with the aim of more effective fight against terrorism. So I really think this kind of proposal to delete this point 4 is not rational, it's not rational for at least two reasons. First, it would be unserious to deprive the state of that possibility of treating these issues in a better way, rather than doing the same to us neighbouring countries and neighbouring countries, so to say the other countries in the region and other European countries. And the other thing, given that we are Parliament, so to deprive the BiH Parliament of the role I do not know what other role they could play and that it is more important than interventions in relation to certain laws on the matter. Therefore, on the basis of previous discussions, including what the SNSD MPs said in that debate, I really don't think there should be any single reason why this quarter should not be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10213	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10214	Dear Chairman, thank you. The conclusions reflect the debate, only the difference between today's session and the previous one is that it was closed to the public because of nature, whether, both the topics and the documents that were our basis, and this, here are the media present. And I must say that it has been a pleasure for me to take part in the debate at a closed session and that this has given me hope that this Parliament can act synergyly in solving a very important problem. Today as soon as this session is open, as soon as the media is there, we have a different deviation to the same things we talked about last time. Comrade Arnaut is right, these may be amendments and additions, or the law on amendments and additions, and may also be a special law if the Ministry of Security says so. And it is a man is right, as he was wrong earlier when he spoke about the budget that this was the first time we adopted it before New Year's Eve, this one we adopted for the last four, five years each time the budget before the New Year's, it's even '13. was adopted on December 6th, here I am looking at these stenograms that I was reading earlier. Most of this the rest of the day before New Year's Eve, but okay, in the circle of the SBB, there's been a hockey shift, and there's not one of the MPs I've told them before. But it's not a dispute, man is right about what he says about the conclusions that are on the agenda today. There could be changes and additions, it could be a whole new law, and it is, that's what we talked about last time. And I really pray to a fellow Košarac player who, whose conclusions are contained in a set of conclusions, and for whom I consider to be quality, for whom I have shown them to my colleagues here when they are proposed at a session as something to support, that he too supports this and that we remain unique as we were in a closed session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10215	Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10216	So, I want to tell my colleague Arnaut, my colleague has changed time, sometimes we have looked differently at what you're saying, and now we have to consider the new circumstances in which you are, and that's why we treat your proposals differently. So don't expect us to support ourselves as versatilely as we have been. No matter how good you were, you're on the other side, so you have to understand, don't expect it anymore. The other thing I want to say is -- what's going to change that there's not one of these conclusions, what's objectively changing? Parliament has practically reached all these conclusions in order to abandon the work it has held in its hand as hot potatoes. The objectively never Joint Defence and Security Commission, whose task is to oversee the Defence and Security Sector, has never been given information that there is no law missing that our fight against all types of crime or terrorism would be better. On the contrary, I think most of the time it's about over-normation, not lack of law. And in the end, and that there is no conclusion, which prevents the competent authorities from sending the law into the process. Is this law the only one, or is this point the only one that makes it possible? ...the minister,...the authority, thinks he should send the law on that subject, he'll send it. So neither of us... to attach too much importance to these points that we've brought here. I don't think that's correct, whether you adopted or adopted anything special won't, it'll just show that we dropped out of hot potatoes and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10217	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10218	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Correction of Mr. Magazinović very wrong quote. I don't know, he didn't hear well, but I'll, as soon as it's available, deliver you a stenogram and a tone record of this session. Of course I didn't say this was the first time the budget was adopted in time. It wasn't necessary for me to be in parliamentary benches in the previous years to know that. And of course, in 2013, it was adopted on time, even then the SBB was in power,... what else did you expect than to be adopted at the time when we were in power. So, so much for that. So, I said at the beginning of my discussion on the budget that it was extremely good to adopt the budget at a time that was not the case in some previous years, and that is the fact. But here, I say again, and we'll deliver the tone to you on the CD as soon as it's available. As for the esteemed colleague Majkić, I can only repeat what I am, here for this speaker, in several narrators said and what is one of the essential, and thematic, and strategic definitions of the SBB, which is that when it comes to fighting terrorism we will never be the opposition, so no matter where they are, in position and opposition at a given time, we will always support all the proposed measures that contribute in any way to the fight against terrorism, because we consider it to be one of the greatest dangers to Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens, this, so that it is only really all I can say about this subject. And you know that we have shown it in actions, so I really hope that we will have, or continue to have, extremely good co-operation, uh, no matter where our two parties were. And here I really think about everything about this topic, that we're all going to get good co-operation, and yet with the goal of the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens in the fight against this extremely great threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10219	Thank you. Chairman Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10220	I thank my fellow deputy. Here's another hello to all of you. I will briefly look back on the last session in the context of what my colleague Staša, uh, has made a proposal that he will not support the fourth conclusion. It doesn't matter, I'm not going to talk about who suggested it, etc., but I'm going to remember again these sessions of the so-called debate which was and the proposals for conclusions that, in some ways, came from that debate. And today, I may be sorry that, in some ways, it throws a shadow into that debate and everything that we've agreed on. And so we all acted as members of the Defence and Security Committee, analyzed the conclusions, and we felt that they were part of the overall debate and that they were all, in a way, such that they could contribute to the effective fight and prevention of terrorism. Well, in that sense, the commitment from the Strategy, that's what we've been working on, to make some changes to the law, and even if it has to pass some new laws, we just went here to the conclusion that it obliges the institutions of the Council of Ministers and technical processors as Ministry of Security to do so as soon as possible. Let us remember that we have all looked back on the fact that there are also incentives to terrorism and that there are no penalties and that there are interventions that may need to be changed in criminal legislation, as well as in the procedure of criminal law, including in some others. It may also be necessary to pass a law on the fight against terrorism that will look at it in another way. And I personally think that this is a strong contribution and I would really like all MPs, or all MPs today when it comes to these conclusions to stop, because that is how we are going to show in the end a unique position. I don't think we're going to contribute anything, any later on, to any conclusion, in terms of its realisation, and also to this particular law, to make it clear and express our position, to be in favour of the law or to be against the law, but I think it would be a good idea to support all these laws, or proposals to the Defence and Security Committee's conclusions unanimously and that this is the most effective way to prevent the fight, and also to fight terrorism. Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10221	For a short time, I have no intention of speaking for 5 minutes, and I need to say that, if it were a more important message from the BiH Parliament, it would be content which, in my opinion, could be in the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to law-making. No Niko will hide a legal act that will change or be passed by parliamentarians or anyone. But sending a message in which, regardless of who is sitting in this House, we have access, we do not agree on a position in the fight against terrorism. I am in favour of inviting my SNSD colleagues to take care of what kind of messages we send to Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of a real commitment to combat terrorism. I think this in a political sense will be viewed differently than the content itself. I know that you will not act on my call, for perhaps my call will be further irritated, and you will say, "We will not now." But I don't think you need to get involved, you don't need to do that, you need to turn on the racio, because it's far better especially when it comes to these kinds of things like the conclusions in question that have been fully aligned. It seems to me that we have also closed this 49-session to the public, and I have proposed, among other things, the conclusion that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly are sitting on this issue and that the sessions are closed. Of course, I didn't get enough support and I thought maybe we could get most of it, but it's not good to suggest that kind of conclusion if we don't have the necessary majority for it. It is therefore my opinion that it is better to make conclusions that are unique than to have a certain kind of oscillation, it certainly does not contribute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10222	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10223	Thank you, Chairman. I think I've been precise, that in the first three conclusions, in some way we're painting our political attitude and we're taking pictures of what we talked about at the 4th special session, if we carefully read all three, or the first three conclusions, you'll see that's what we were talking about. We won't support the fourth conclusion. This is not about the message, I am not particularly burdened by what kind of message we will become from Parliament, but what Parliament and the Council of Ministers will do. So it is quite clear that in these three conclusions our views are very clear, we have said very precisely what we cannot support the fourth, if it can be stated individually, if it can't, you can't judge for yourself what kind of message we're sending.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10224	Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10225	Just for a little while, I can't remember exactly that that kind of attitude has been carried out by you who are now proposing this kind of attitude. So, I remember better, I seem to remember quite a bit, you didn't dispute this kind of approach at all, either at the Commission or at the session itself. Suddenly there was a need to send this message to the public. From your will, send whatever you want, but I urge you to send a unique message because it is important however you observe it, it is important that the Parliamentary Assembly, or that we representatives of both entities, all three constituent nations and Brcko District, send a message that there are unique positions of parliaments in relation to the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10226	Safet Demirović, correction of the wrong allegations. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I beg your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10228	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present, of course. 50 In a closed session I had one discussion in a slightly different way, it seems to me, rather than the other, uh, and then I realized that all of us, we all have one consensus about the problem of terrorism and relations with terrorism, but then I asked us all a question – what happens when a case like this occurs, that some things should be done and done differently, then how are we going to act? And here, we see today that we have a different view of all this. I fully understand that some colleagues feel that it should be done in some other way, and we feel that it should be done in some other way. What, I just have one more question again -- what if it spreads to some higher level, that it requires extra money, some task force formation, and I don't know what everything, where would they go? But here, first, everyone has an opinion, and we'll come to this conclusion. This question was potent, I'm not running away, so I had a discussion then, it was a closed session, I can repeat it again today, the problem we have is a serious problem and it requires a serious solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10229	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10230	Thank you. Well, before I say what I meant to say, I want to point out that this is not clear to me at all, these corrections to the wrong allegations, you know. No Niko has pointed out why or almost everyone or rarely who has cited it, perhaps better to say, what is being referred to, which corrects the wrong assumption, it's mostly all turning into a discussion. I didn't want to apply for a wrong quote, so here's what I did for the discussion, although I could say, is what I'm about to say, maybe there could be a correction to the wrong quote. So, first of all, those who say that we've changed our attitudes. Yes, and we are in the position that circumstances have changed, that attitudes have changed both of them, and that is why the optimism that we are talking about has arisen, and it is normal that according to that, in fact, our discussions will be in this direction to improve the functioning and realization of the optimism that has arisen, not only with us, but with Bogami and in the public. As for this debate over the situation of security, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina and fear of terrorism. Well, everyone in their right mind is afraid of this, so everyone in their right mind knows that these legal solutions that we have aren't all that meet the needs that certainly have grown. It's clear to me why it's said here that you don't vote for point 4 or to single it out so that it's a particular vote on this conclusion, it's quite clear to me why. But I don't see that, justification of concern, because we who insisted as a House of Representatives that we have a special session, we've been looking for reports from the Minister of Security, so we've said a series of criticisms and a series of demands, and in all this it has proved that some legal solutions are not entirely satisfactory so that they can meet the challenges facing Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, I really don't see any legitimate fear of this, even though I'm saying that I understand why this is and what it's referred to when it's asked to vote specifically on this point. So, we support these four conclusions and as the SBB Club, we will support these four conclusions, but we have no objection to this, nor do we have the House pleading on another way of voting and pleading on these proposed points. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10231	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point, and we'll come forward later. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Report by the College on Efforts to reach consensus on Senad Šepić's proposal for the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers' Council on the discussion of progress information in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path, The proposal for a conclusion at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, was sent to the House College for subsequent consent due to an insufficient ethnic majority. The College failed to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion and submitted a report on this. The debate is closed, and we will plead later in the second round of voting when it is time. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Report on the implementation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual-purpose products and specific purposes for 2013 and Report on Foreign Trade in Arms, Military Equipment, dual-purpose products and special purposes for 2014, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10235	... I'm just sorry, I have to open the document because in order to be able to talk... what's written. [[You can't hear what the MP is saying.]] The audit is something that should show the overall situation and should show the legality of the work of those who manage state finances, or budgets. And it's very symptomatic, just one little paragraph, and I'm going to read it just to stay in the stenogram and it would be said that those who should be after the revision to look at what's left of it, not just this year, but in the previous years. "It is not rare that BiH institutions do not comply with the prescribed legal obligation to supply data, and different interpretations of certain legal provisions have led to different practices of the BiH institutions in the event of complaints to which each applicant is entitled." I really care what this means? Is it possible that those who govern do not give what is required by the regulations, nothing else, what we have written in the laws? Obviously not, because Mr. Šego here says very precisely. I would like to initiate these, and in writing at one of the next sessions, that those who are the legislative authority have, according to their own interest, the desire to know, the desire to see what is happening, have the right and insight into the total cost of the funds, that is, the realisation of the budget, because the budget has been adopted and so should be implemented here in Parliament. And we should be the most responsible for its full realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10236	Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10237	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I will most likely in one initiative or one question perhaps refer to the Auditor's Institution later, but here I am unable to take away the desire to comment on a little bit of this report. First of all, I will say that personally, and hopefully, the club, that we will support, so this report, and it is good that BiH institutions have someone to warn about things that they possibly miss, do not comply with the laws they have passed themselves. However, here, when I read this, I really asked the question when looking at the Audit Act, and it doesn't seem to me that for the first time we have reports like this which, in my opinion, are not in the office of the Auditor. But here's what we're going to ask, so I'm going to see what I get an answer for it. For example. The main objective of the Audit Office is to ensure an independent opinion on the implementation of the budget and financial reports, in Article 3 of the Revision Act. So, as much as I have read this Law, the articles they are called upon in this Report, talk about financial supervision, spending of funds, efficiency, efficiency, but from the point of view of financial, financial issues. However, the proposal that here, for example, goes into their recommendations is to approach the amendment of the law. Does this mean that the Office of Auditors has the capacity to review, determine the state of law enforcement, regulations from various areas? So, I don't get it, so efficiency is 53 this way, so the auditor's office is working or I haven't figured out enough matter. So I said that I would still ask one question on this trail to the Auditor's Office or someone else to answer me, so – what does the Auditor's Office mean, can he do this kind of insight? And I'm not to mention any other cases in which I've had the chance to see where the auditor is, so here it seems to me that we have a government and non-governmental sector, so, which is doing what I think is not in his term and recommending, although I think it's good to have someone to warn us about, here's an example. and this law not to be implemented properly. So here, I say again, I will support and support, but I will ask for one answer, therefore, on the mandate of the Office of Auditors when it comes to this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10238	I don't see any more reports at the moment. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, applicant: European Commission The report was submitted in procedure 03.12.2015. The Joint Committee on European Integration submitted its opinion on Report 04.12.2015. The commission adopted the Report and proposed to the colleagues of the homes its inclusion in the agenda of the meeting at home. The College of the House decided at the 22nd session to include the Report in the agenda of this session. I'm opening a debate. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10240	Thank you. I do not know that there can be a more important agenda point for the country's parliament, which has the ambition to become an EU member than this. Unfortunately, on our left, there is absolutely no one from the Council of Ministers, and this actually shows that, when it comes to the European path, that under a) first we are able to fake, under b) we are falsifying the EU because our relationship is actually very superficial and does not produce results. The report for Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that is a fact, and we get to know it, we can't intervene, we're all in different ways, using our acquaintances in the EU, we could possibly suggest something. This is now, is, the dating document. However, where are we today? We are at the end of the year when we are informed that a credible application for membership will be submitted in the first days of 2016. In order for this application to be submitted, three preconditions must be met. The first, reform agenda, and that... the easiest because it seems to many that everything we have to commit to and promise to go in that direction without a concrete achievement, that's not the problem. And all that goes on in principle—our mothers, here we are good, and we have fulfilled that condition. However, we have two more conditions to meet. It is a coordination mechanism for which, after countless applications, parliamentarians do not have official information as it looks even in the draft, 54 drafts or in any form and adjustment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in terms of traditional trade, where we had one position of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and then the Presidency, rushing after the date, I think, directed little of the process in the wrong direction. So, two very important preconditions for the application are still in the air and we don't know much about them. I don't know if, and should have, the Council of Ministers these days adopted our negotiating platform for negotiations concerning the modification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If it's done, and it's possible it's done in these past few days, it's just telling us it's unrealistic to say that we're going to hand over the app when the negotiations haven't actually started yet. The European Union, on the one hand, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other hand, have an agreed relationship that can, cannot be changed unilaterally. In addition, all countries in the region that had this type of relationship with the EU and corrected this contractual relationship are doing so through negotiations. It is perfectly logical that the EU wants to protect its interest, primarily economically, and all member states, and they have their demands. On the other hand, I'm afraid that there is no such awareness on our part of our interest, which I see when it comes to the profession, when it comes to people from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, but I don't see it when it comes to politics, because it seems to me that I am wrong and I am allowing you to correct me, that there is currently a race on the stage about the date when we hand over the application, not a concrete discussion of meeting the conditions related to it. It's a similar thing with the coordination mechanism. Both of these processes are being conducted quite non-transparently in relation to this Parliament, in relation to the public in particular. I am not sure that we respect the principle we have committed, through this new approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the professional public, the academic community is involved in these processes in a satisfactory manner. Therefore, by not using the time until the end, or here I am, I end up, wanting to change this kind of policy-making relationship to the EU in the new year, to make it much more transparent, to have everyone involved, all those who signed the agent, and there is both the position and the opposition, and to each, to draw from each and to make their contribution in accordance with their capacity. In this way, by fulfilling all the obligations that are fulfilled with the words – I want my mother to do, and all that is concrete to murmur and hide information from each other, I fear that the future report will not be optimistic, although this, even if you read it better, is not quite positive in the way it was presented to the local public, but it is quite another topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10241	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10242	Thank you, First Deputy. At the SDP Club, we believe that the Rules of Procedure, more specifically Article 184 point (c) and (d) which say that the Council of Ministers has the right and has the obligation to attend meetings, i.e. to affect the course of the debate through its representatives. I suggest you call a representative of the Council of Ministers or we don't discuss this point until one of them shows up, we move on. _________(?) 55 [[no microphone turned on]] Or postpone for the next session. And I'm asking for your statement as to whether the Rules of Procedure have been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10244	Okay. To inform you that Mr. Brkić, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, is present at the same time as a session of the House of Peoples with the point of the budget, and that is probably why the situation... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, anyone, I mean, we could've postponed the session while they voted the budget. I understand your request, but I think these are the circumstances, and here, we have one representative, and I believe that during the session the others will come. The debate, MP Dušanka Majkić, I apologize, has a replica, in the meantime Damir Arnaut applied earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10246	Oh, I'm not in my day, I'm a long time ago. I mean, I wanted to react first when Mr. Magazinović here, I mean, next to a living man, I don't know, at least that, uh, to meet the persons we have at the Council of Ministers, first Mr. Magazinović said on the left is not there anyone from the Council of Ministers, then Mr. Mešić stood up and called on a member of the Rules of Procedure who I know very well, I referred to him but really when no one from the Council of Ministers was on the left. I don't think it's really right, it's not responsible that MPs don't know who's sitting in the Council of Ministers. So, we have a living man, Deputy Foreign Minister, I've seen him from the beginning here. So when at least this article is 184 that you've quoted, this, absolutely means you're wrong. Here, this is an eclectic example of correcting a false quote, so it's not a replica, it's a total correction of a very wrong quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10247	All right, we're moving on. A letter from Dušanka, and you, meaning Mr Mešić, the replica, the second.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10248	Correction of the wrong, completely wrong allegation. So no one explicitly said who represented the Council of Ministers, so, sir, I didn't think so. You explained it, if you made it up right now, I don't know it, but I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10249	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion. 56 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I mean, this is the third time, please, Mrs. Majkić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10253	...in the 67th meeting of the House, I demand an explanation. This material says unofficial translation. Is this translation true, is this where the structures that we read are accurate and what kind of document we have in front of us, because this is exactly what the unofficial translation says here? Please nicely, you've given us a document that we don't know is it, the ultimate version, off the record. And we're discussing something that's uncalled for. What are we discussing here now? Since you're the College and you put it on the agenda, give me an explanation of what it is and what it's about?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10254	Well, I, uh, believe that you're good at foreign language, right, you said that you knew more than one of them as a mother, and I don't think it's gonna be a problem for you to see if there's any inconsistencies. But it's the material that was delivered, it's the material, as it says here, of the European Commission. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10255	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10256	You see, this is the report for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, it could have been, perhaps, that the Council of the Institutors could have stamped that it was an official translation, but this material in your possession was delivered by the European Commission in this form. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10257	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10258	That's right. Here you go, Mr. Denis Bećirović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10259	So, I had no intention of answering, but I must say very clearly that, and so said colleague Magazinović, probably one of the most important points, not only of these sessions but also of general watching. And in such a situation, we have that there are neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers, either of the two deputies or of the Ministers here in the O.R. If she were lucky, we'd be members of the BiH presidency at a point like this. And in a situation like this, try to look for arguments and reasons to respect something, etc. I don't think there's a single argument. And given this situation, the best solution would be to stop this debate, to call the Council of Ministers. In December, I suppose it can be so coordinated that a session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives does not have to be the same day, so that possibly ministers can come and attend a session that is monthly, whether, at a session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Therefore, fellow Arnaut, there is no single minister here on such an important subject. Imagine and compare other countries that are on their way to the EU and those that have joined the EU, the whole government would be in line, all of them from the relevant directives, etc., no one here on such an important topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10260	Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10261	Mr. Bećirović, I think when you call me, I mean, you see, I don't know how you can, uh, try to escape from the fact that your colleague, from your club, Mr. Magazinović, showed his hand and said there's no one on the left from the Council of Ministers, so then Mr. Mešić had a business intervention, called on Article 184 again, claiming there was no one from the Council of Ministers. I keep repeating - a living man from the Council of Ministers sits with us. So let's go back to the fact that two members of your club, Mr Magazinović and Mr Mešić do not know who is sitting in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, my correction of the wrong allegation referred to both Mr. Magazinović and Mr. Mešić, who claimed, showed hands to the left and said there was no one from the Council of Ministers. I'm telling you, please, if 2/3 of your club doesn't know who the Council of Ministers is, uh, then we have a real problem. And, therefore, absolutely unfounded was the call to, or business intervention completely unfounded...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10262	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10263	I'd like Salko Sokolović for the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10264	I really thank Madam Chairman, I think this goes into the code of this kind of behavior, or it goes in the direction of breaking the Codex. In any case, Mr. Bećirović, 2/3, the fact, today here is what we learned, is that 2/3 of the SDP Club, at least 2/3, because I don't know if you knew, but at least 2/3 today, in their own words, have clearly confirmed that they don't know the identity of members of the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10265	Correction of the wrong allegation, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10266	It is on the border whether to comment or not, my fellow Arnaut did not answer one key question on such an important topic. I didn't know that fellow Arnaut was pleased with the fact that we don't have a chairman here right now, no deputy and no minister. If that's the way and if that's the way to look at important issues like this, then it's an honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10267	Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10268	If we hadn't adopted the Codex, I'd have called it different. So this is an extremely important question. I'm sure fellow Arnaut from a month ago would have been the first to stand up to say so, and he would have been right, because this important issue is to discuss without the presence of members of the Council of Ministers is not right. If you want to make a big deal out of it, open the Council of Ministers Act and see who makes the Council of Ministers. You have a definition there, it writes to you, chairing and how many ministers it says to you in the law. You're a lawyer. I'm not. But it's completely irrelevant, the left side is empty, the Council of Ministers is not present. We have in the very document, which I assume you've read, in different areas and in different resolutions, good things, bad things, things that are done, things that need to be done. You, I'm sorry, you're not my talker on this subject, I need someone from the Council of Ministers to talk individually, I really wish that was the situation. And that form whether or not the deputy minister is there, this is where the chairman should sit, this is the most important point, at least when we watch it on television and when they talk with great passion about how we enter the EU, we are just not. And when, in the end, together we should, colleague Arnaut, fight to make this Parliament more respected. Now, forget everything else, let's fight to make this Parliament more respected. Well, you suggested the conclusion, based on a discussion of all of us, that by 30 November, I think, you deliver material by the Council of Ministers. So when was it delivered? Let's fight to respect this Parliament, here's forget form and procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10269	Here, I'll just comment for a second because it's said there's no one here. At the moment, we have Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić. And now I give my word to Nikola Lovrinović, not respecting the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10270	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, here, I didn't mean in this part, but for the debate to come forward, and I'm going to report as chairman of the Committee on European Integration, so I have to say, so I just clicked this icon because the subject is the report from the European Commission. So it would be good if someone, Mr. Davidi, who was with us at the Committee, were here with us, of course, and from the Council of Ministers, at this point we could be pleased that there is the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. meċutim, here's how we begin what we've asked for every session to be reported, so we ourselves, etc. meċutim, my colleague Saša and my colleague Denis, and I don't know who else, have commented, 59, I could now tell you how we acted. At the Parliamentary Forum first,... The sixth session we called was not ours, so of the 12 members of the Joint Committee there were three, were they colleagues. So, at the last session... we were considering this report... the points that I'm going to talk to later I didn't have a quorum, so I'm going to have to propose conclusions today. I, as an agent, can't because there was no conclusion of the commission. So, how do we as parliamentarians treat... Here, so we're breaking our own dignity, and I was angry then, and I didn't mean to say this today, but I haven't been here twice or three times to work on the Committee because fellow representatives from that Joint Commission didn't come to where they were supposed to come, to a parliamentary forum,...we've gathered all the people from the entity and the Brcko District, came to us 3 out of 12. Well, it doesn't make any sense, so let's just stick to other people and not act like one, so maybe others treat us the way they do. Okay, let me cut to the chase, so I'd like to get back to the subject, we'll probably have it every month or three months as we've concluded, and I'd like to really be a representative of the European Commission and more people from the Council of Ministers because there are more issues, but here's the thing. We will likely have a chance to discuss this almost every session and insist on it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10271	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10272	... my colleague Lovrinović is more right, and he's more right than he is, uh, when he talks about response. However, you should be aware that there is a majority of parliamentarians there too, and be a little consolidated about it, give you a look around that response. Article 5. The Council of Ministers' Law says that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Framework Agreement, that I do not read everything now, seems – the chairman,... the chairman and ministers, and the number of ministers, period. So that defines you. And with all due respect to Mr Brkić for coming, but if we ask him where we are in adapting to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you know more than most of us here are in what kind of trouble we are, I am not sure he will know what it is that the European Commission insists on, what their trade demands are, what our answer is. So that's what I'm talking about. That is why this is important, and that is why we mention the Council of Ministers' presence, not to object to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10273	Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10274	Here, and I'm going to brag about the fact that I'm not a lawyer, but at least I know how to read what these books say. So it says Article 185. - the presentation of the Council of Ministers, this is what we are working for, says attitude (2) of the ministers may be deputy ministers, so at a session of Parliament. And we accept that as valid. So, please, let us refer to the act that regulates our way of working. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10275	Debate, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10276	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10277	Dušanka Majkić... He's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10278	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10279	Please, I apologize, since I haven't been told by Dušanka Majkić, the debate, Zaim Backović reported later.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10280	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am truly sorry that this continuation and such important topics today are practically speaking to ourselves. Whenever I read some of the daily newspapers some of the country's senior officials say that, here's the submission of a credible app as soon as it's not, here's the next period, and then I think about what conditions we still need to meet and what we need to see that man clearly doesn't know what he's doing or what else is waiting for us on that road. That's why it's not good for us to talk to ourselves, because obviously there are people in the Council of Ministers who don't know what it means, what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to do to give up this app. It's obvious even in the Presidency that people, they don't know it all the way. And I don't think we should be running this debate without key people, and at this point, the most interesting minister of economic relations, because the issue of traditional trade puts this country at risk to stop exporting. It's the alarming state we're in when it comes to meeting this obligation. And we won't invite representatives of the Council of Ministers to draw attention to that. It's more important now that... that everyone sits there, and if they do, I know that only the Minister of Finance will talk about it, rather than talk about such a significant issue here. Well, what else. The foreign minister, the deputy minister sitting here, cannot answer the questions that we should ask him and that I have been waiting to ask the Minister of Economic Relations. So, don't banalize, it says we don't know much about this ourselves. And it is hard for the chairman of the European Integration Commission, if this is what he's done, to collect a quorum like this on all grounds. So just now, colleague Magazinović said three conditions. The first is this implementation of the reform agenda. We see that we've done something, that part of the entity's plans have been put in place, and that two cantons, it seems to me, Uno-unsko-sanski and zeničko-dobojski's Doboski, did their job, eight didn't, or at least they didn't deliver it to us, I don't have that information. The other part of the coordination mechanism, without which there is no debate at all, is still a problem, because someone says it's arranged somewhere but no one can say where and what's agreed on. So there is no story of a European pathway without agreed coordination mechanisms. What kind of credibility app are we talking about? Well, that's cheating on the public. And finally, this third condition that was added, so it was not a condition, it was subsequently added, which is the adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, means related to this traditional trade. 61 I really thank the Chamber of Commerce who provided us with a very good material, which could help us, in this debate, and it was expected that the Council of Ministers would deliver such material to us, based on which we could lead the debate on this topic. So, what does the European Commission want? He asks that Bosnia and Herzegovina, to allow Croatia to continue exports as it was a member of CEFTA and that, for all types of goods it exported as a member of CEFTA, it is for those products that are most interesting in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So dairy products and processed milk and milk, meat and meat prairies, fruits, vegetables, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages and all of which Bosnia and Herzegovina generates significant income in exports. In doing so, Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot benefit from the benefits of exports to Croatia, but only by the EU regime. So that's the thing that's really alarming. And not only is it not the end here, but the introduction of a ban on exports to the Russian Federation is an additional element that fits this situation for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The key question is how Bosnia and Herzegovina will protect its production. Could we, whether we will be allowed to import quotas or otherwise move time distances, allow us to do so by the end until we have reached the conditions for entering the EU to leave that benefit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, this one. I am... several questions that I expected the minister to be able to answer us that this methodology of traditional trade, which the European Commission advocates, was not mandatory because it was not contained in the provisions of the interim agreement. How come she's mandatory now? What happened to her suddenly became mandatory. Secondly, that the technical adaptation of some international agreement is not possible to amend the provisions that are not in it...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10281	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10282	Here I go. So how is it possible to amend provisions that did not exist at the time Bosnia and Herzegovina concluded the agreement? And in the end, I think Bosnia and Herzegovina must fight for this. I wanted to hear from the minister whether our body, which is scheduled for negotiations, deals in general with this matter or if we will welcome 1.1 when this decision of the European Commission comes into force and when Bosnia and Herzegovina stops exporting. These are alarming things, and I think they deserve much more attention than MPs are showing by their interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10283	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10284	Dear sir, my colleague, I suppose we're obliged to obey the law. If we've established that the regulation, based on which we're working, is contrary to the legal solution then I know that my colleague is waving his head, but if the minister writes there, and we've introduced the Rules of Minister and, we don't agree with the law. We have a duty to obey the laws. And if we establish a disharmony with the laws, we are obliged to propose amendments and additions in order to comply with the legal solution. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10285	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10286	Here, I'm going to say something now so we don't have to talk again when we have to, when I reported the discussion, I'm really proposing, so since we don't have people here today from the Council of Ministers, this is what we put into the agenda, so let's take this into account. After this debate, I won't discuss this deliberately because I don't think it makes any sense for me to tell myself here, to put this back in the first session in 2016 when we're going to have the whole Council of Ministers, all the institutions, so let's talk about it, when it's going to make sense. Now, at this point, I really don't see any special sense in talking about what we should, as we should, be talking about ourselves. So that's my suggestion. If necessary, I can also send this proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10287	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10288	I thank the chairman. I, this is actually a replica is not a correction to the wrong quote, but we can't write it down otherwise, namely I'm joining those who think that today we can't seriously consider this point. I believe that, if anything, we should respect ourselves, that is, our Commission, which in its second conclusion - we suggest to the College of Homes that the report for BiH for 2015 is presented by the representative of the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the presence of the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers be ensured. So that is the suggestion of our Commission and I don't really see why we would do any different than what our Commission asked us to do or what it expects of us. I think it is a good proposal for Mr. Šepić not to conclude today's debate on these points, in fact we haven't essentially started to discuss these issues, to put it on the next session when they are able to present people from the European Commission in the presence, means the Chairman's Council of Ministers, so before it comes to something that is urgent and what we should end today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10289	Now, since it's already being repeated through your replicas, are you ready for a proposal to stop the debate on these points, and that point 8 and 9, since they're tied up, we leave it for one of the next sessions of our House, for the first of course, by saying that they've won the pre-conditions. Is that what you're up for? Here's Nikola Lovrinović wants something.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10290	So, I don't mind, here as president of the Committee, I agree, but to just say a few sentences. We suggested this conclusion and it would be good if it were such a full composition, we thought that if the European Commission's opinion on the state of BiH in 2015 went far, so it wouldn't make any sense to talk about it in three months, but if it was going to be at the first session in January it's okay. So, since we couldn't reach conclusions on the Committee either, because, I just said, for a quorum, which I was going to suggest today, and so 63 means that if that's how it is 15 days doesn't mean anything, I can and in the name of the Committee in some way, my colleagues here are not going to blame me, accept such a proposal, and we can do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10291	So, since these dots are on our agenda, we've opened the debate on point 8, but we have point 9, so we're going to say that now these points 8. – Report for BiH for 2015, European Commission applicant, issue: 01,02-06-1538/15, of 03.12.2015, and point 9. – Action plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers reform agenda, applicant: Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-50-11-1383/15, of 28.10.2015, that means at the first next session of the House of Representatives and that we are then discussing and agreeing on them. Here, who's in favor of this proposal? Of the 34 present – for 28, against nothing, abstention 6. The Federation of BiH 19 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, RS 9 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that points 8 and 9 have been left to discuss and plead at the next session of the House of Representatives. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Current financial situation and threatened business of BiH Radio-Television, Proposer: jasmin Emrić Because we had, so somehow this point added beyond the agenda, we had point 11. Ad. 11. Conclusions from the 14th session of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10294	Please, can I just ask you one question before the debate begins?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10295	Here you go. Dušanka Majkić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10296	On the basis of which we will conduct a debate on this point on 10th, because it says – current financial situation and threatened business. So, financial business, we don't have any information here. So, we know that the situation is bad there, but to be reasoned, we don't say one thing there we heard, we said, on the basis of which paper we're discussing that point, respecting everything a colleague said and his good intentions, but good intentions are... feasible. They're not feasible for us to talk, so let's not make this room a talking room that has nothing to do with what's the subject of work. So it can stay, but we don't have the elements today. We have the elements to discuss the Commission's conclusions, but we can also apply to that. So, I'm asking you not to banalize this completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10297	Please, what my colleague Dušanka just said, of course we had a proposal for Mr Jasmin Emrić's conclusion on the agenda. We knew we didn't have the material, but we had to make a statement about the proposal for a conclusion. Now we don't have materials and normally we can't discuss it competently, but we have united points 10 and 11 and I assume that the proposer of this point planned only to go with a determined conclusion because no one else can discuss it in a different way, and the 11th point is – Conclusions from the Committee on Transport and Connections. So we can discuss both, and each of us has the right to say again what our colleague Dušanka said at one point or another. So let's go, Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10298	Let me help, so what my colleague Dušanka was saying. So it's true that we don't have the material for this first item of the agenda, but also, to me, it's important that we, at least this way, open this story today. I suggest, therefore, that, here, we will have to take the essence of the debate over these conclusions, and that one of the conclusions, namely to extend these conclusions to this Commission, that the conclusion is that for the next session of the House we have all this information in accordance with this request he asked for, as it is called, colleague jasmin Emrić. So, let's put the Council of Ministers in charge of preparing for us complete materials based on this point, which is currently on the agenda. So that's just another new conclusion, if I have to write it, but I think we understand the intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10299	Debate, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10300	Just a moment to open the file. On this subject, I have already spoken to this speaker on two occasions, in this microphone in this House. And I won't be obliged, I won't use this time at my disposal, but I'll just say that we, who are responsible, and in line with something called respect for public broadcaster rights, and that one of the conditions that will be put in place for us, is the functioning of a public broadcaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina as one of the preconditions for accession, as well as for other countries and our neighbours, we are obliged to address the problem of the overall financing of the TV system. Someone seemed to want to make it impossible to finance, or to bring into such a material, or financial position. 65 In full disagreement with the laws, a law on how to finance was passed. It is the Law on total, on public broadcasters, or on telecommunications systems. You have three telecom operators, completely neglected cable operators who have been given the right to use telephony and largely download the system of stable telephony, or as they say domestic ones, and in this way those who fully avoid paying for the tv tax. I have consulted the laws only of our left and right neighbours, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, and I have seen that they have done this beautifully, from the collection of personal cars or their own cars to the collection of use in the living space. We have a very simple solution, but we're getting away from it. Given that it is said here in the conclusion that..., etc., I propose that we, as Parliament, or our working body, propose to the competent authorities that a law should not be passed by means of an emergency procedure which should not have more than 3, 4, 5 members, where the charge is made through the electricity distributor. All housing units have a measured place, a number, I didn't tell the electricity companies, but to distributors, Electrotransmission Sarajevo or..., all have a measured place as well as that it is required to be in the law, which regulates the registration of the vehicle, adds a member, amends and supplements the law that charges taxes, as in all democratic countries of the world, when registering for the use of audio and visual laptop. Because through this, which will wait for us, the intellectual property right has been annulled by the intellectual property rights of those whose work is used in these media. Try not to pay in Croatia, try Serbia. We all use it today, and no one pays. And then we say that we are a country full of democracy in which everything is respected. We don't respect the right to property, and that property should be paid through the pay by the broadcaster, because they broadcast it. Therefore, once again, I propose that our body propose to whoever is competent to pass, to propose such a law, a law that will define the charge by means of an electricity distributor, because everyone has a reasonable number, every institution, every firm, everyone, and that, when registering a vehicle, whether by a company or by a company, or by an institution, they are charged through the registration of these fees of audio and video signals in the vehicle. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10301	Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10302	Well, I'll just say two sentences, and I think my colleagues have suggested before me what's important, which is that we don't have any material. And I'm having my own discussion, and that's why I signed up. However, these replicas are too fast, these other ways of reporting, too soon for someone to say what you were going to say in the discussion. But I really think that we must and should have, I don't know if Emrić has, therefore, some kind of material, but it is certainly very important that he opened this issue to discuss in Parliament, because it is really about the state, how we can hear both in the public and from the officials themselves of those who run these broadcasters, and from the board members, that the situation is difficult. So I think we should go with the conclusion that for the next session we have, so what's defined at the agenda point proposed by our colleague Emrić, and we need to have a debate that will result in us changing the legislation so that the broadcasters have a safe payment and that they can function. This condition as it is now surely brings into an unspeakable state with a threat, so their continuation of further work. Thank you very much. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10303	jasmin Emrić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10304	I thank the chairman. I have proposed this item of the agenda as a reaction from the MPs who received a very dramatic letter, not just me, but all the other club presidents, from the Independent Workers' Union in BHRT. In this letter, we all had a chance to read it, they ask us a question – Why did BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs show a illogical attitude towards solving BHRT's existential problem as well as the other two public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So that's why I have set up and proposed a agenda point, and I thank you for accepting it, so that we show that we are not passive and we do not have this illogical relationship, but we want to answer this very difficult question that has turned out to be a political issue, i.e. the way and model of the billing of the tv tax. In that letter, the Independent Union reminds us MPs that all media houses, public media houses in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are ahead of a financial collapse. And of course we cannot remain indifferent, but we must react and in some way reduce our responsibility in all of this. Because as an MP, I have a responsibility if I don't talk about it publicly, but I also have a responsibility if we don't ask the competent authorities to do their part of the job, specifically in this case, as the Transport and Communications Commission has asked for its conclusions, and this is the committee of the system that should have dealt with this issue in due time. And it is my intention that we break up here, as they say in their act, the political game, but that we objectively look at the whole situation and ask the board of directors of the system to deal more responsibly with this issue or to identify those who prevent very important decisions from being made. And what is the situation in our public television systems is also talking about by the chairman of the Management Board and the System Committee, which states in its act that the six-month account showed a loss of 1.1 million KM. So, the first half-year loss of 1.1 million KM, and at the same time in the first half, incomes are reduced by 10% compared to the same period last year that were collected from the billing of a tv tax. So, somewhere in the assessment, there's been a cut in revenue by 350,000 marks. Thus, the chairman of the Board of Directors of BHRT and the Committee of the Systems stresses that they used all their internal capacity to create savings, that they broke contracts with all external associates, means about 80 contracts with external associates they broke up, and other measures they have no other measures they cannot create assumptions for the normal functioning of BHRT. takoċer, it is said that they have great obligations towards European associations, a total of around 8.9 million marks, nearly 10 million KMs already have commitments to European associations so that they can function normally and work. Thus, they say they have other public broadcasters according to BHRT obligations of around 20 million KM, and they think they won't be able to charge at all. And they ask how this financial situation will be resolved, that financial collapse. Honestly, when I look at it, this very difficult financial situation and all these allegations, I see that we need to open this debate, objectively look at the whole situation and solve this issue that at least work to the extent that they've worked out today if we can't create some better conditions and assumptions for their work. The media needs all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, objectivity, timely information, I do not need to say how important it is during this period when Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to travel towards European integration. 67 Therefore, my intention was to open this debate, to say that we are giving an answer to the acts and these dramatic questions that are being asked to us, and I am thus expressing my support for the Commission's conclusions. Maybe we should think about limiting time not to go on forever... but to be some reasonable deadline, maybe 30 days, or here at this point what the possibilities are, but I think it should still be time-limited. Of course, I agree with others that we do not have enough information today, but at the next session we can have the same agenda point with full information, so if it is necessary to invite others to participate in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10305	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10306	I'm the one who pulled the plug.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10307	Pulled. Okay. Next, Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10308	Thank you. I will try to fit into this, given that it is practically discussing the Commission's conclusions on traffic and communication that I am chairing and which has been dealing with four times this year. Of these four times we were self-initiated on this issue, and last time we were dealing with this reception, the reception of this letter to the Trade Union and the letter from the President of the Management Board, or the system, Mr Gotovuša, and on the basis of this debate, we also proposed the conclusions that we delivered to the College, which the College today put in session. I must say that the Board of Systems is in accordance with Article 18. The law required to propose means a sustainable collection system, i.e. the financing of tv broadcasters, public radio broadcasters. The system's board was obliged to do so much earlier than the law which had been set out to be charged by telecom operators. We were forced to extend that deadline by about three months, with the consent of the telecom operator, and it stands out at the end of this year, which is practically their obligation, unless they accept voluntarily, as far as the law is concerned. The proposal around Elektroprivreda looks very simple in a way, i.e. elektroprenos, it looks very simple in the way my colleague Backović suggested. Slovenia was due three years to determine the exact records, the exact records of those who paid for electricity, and who had receivers for three years. Look, I'll tell you one example, just one example, the Elektroprivreda in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all the electricity, the number of natural persons connections is almost 200,000 higher than the number of households, and we know that it's done over, so almost 200,000 is higher, which says that this record is not easy and that it's not easy to get to the right record. I just took an example of this one to show what it looks like. Or, for example, today in the Federation 44% is more household than the number of subscribers, the number of those who receive the bills. In Republika Srpska there are 32% more households than those who receive bills, which means that the records do not agree and do not agree, nor is the one today that has not nearly adequate and reliable. 68 Not rising for which loss, the fact is that we have three emitters, that they all finance the same way and that one hook and two don't complain. No RTRS hooks, no Federal TV hooks, and that's why BHRT's about to shut down. What one colleague said died and nobody told them they died. Why? Because the bill is subject to entity charges, it means the entity services in charge, and then, according to the law, the allocation of funds is done. Since a large number of citizens reduce fixed phones, eliminate fixed phones, switch to cable broadcasters, entity public services are charged via incasant service, and these funds do not give BHRT, nor does BHRT have a record of that charge. And that's one of the reasons why there isn't, that's why they're crying and they're not complaining. And if I didn't go further into the elaborate of this, I think we're a little bit, a little bit bumpy when we put this agenda on the agenda, so before we talk about it, and the management of BHRT, we'd have to have the board of directors of the system, we'd have to have learned the practice of getting acquainted with the practices in other countries,.../the ambassador warns himself that his time has run out/... and then we could make adequate conclusions. And, of course, I could talk a lot more about this, I think it is necessary to accept the conclusions proposed by the Commission, with a correction here by Mr Bojić, who delivered the first conclusion, because it is in fact the legal board of the system that is obliged, in accordance with Article 18. The law, that means secure the billing of a tv fee. I didn't open the question, I apologize for this sentence, lack of charge due to the dissatisfaction of one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the urinal policy of the media, or one nation where we in certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina have below 20% of the level of pay for RTT. And that question we have to solve if we want this to be... Through who? It's either through the electro-primature or via Telekom or anyone, if we want it to be bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10309	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10310	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome you all. I'm going to briefly, in fact, as these two points of discussion are combined, if I understand correctly, a few words about this problem. Others have already said what's important to say. The problem lasts, and we're all witnessing that now it's already him, it's not whining, it's yelling, it's still happening to them tomorrow, so what they're picking up from taxis and it really is a huge problem. It lasts on its own without getting rid of it, and it lasts here. On the Commission we almost had what is called a public hearing almost looked like, how many times did people from the RAC come from Television, the System Committee, all representatives, directors, and we tried to find a solution. Obviously, there's nothing there. We've even had one conference at the European Commission, but here's the thing that would be either a replacement or an extension of this. So their cry really makes sense, and what counterpart Novaković was talking about always points out that this percentage that belongs to BHRT doesn't actually get. Now the debts have accumulated, they're already millions, and they just can't get out of it. I don't know what's gonna be the solution, how to do that, after Telekom's operator what to find. I'm saying we've talked about it on the Commission, but there's never been a solution, it's just that there's always been some, never-needed deal, and that's where we are. 69 What I really wanted on this occasion, it is a correction of this second conclusion from the Commission, I think there may be the essence of the story, it is in the final order of this conclusion, it is said – to establish a common network operator, and in law it is a corporation. So I would suggest a conclusion that only this part is replaced, that, here, it is coordinated, it intensifys everything in order to establish a corporation, because that's what it's called in the law, and it's called, which it would manage, not just a package of these digital channels, but probably that it might exist in some way, but this would be a different and simpler solution. Here, do you need to write this to change or we're just going to mouth-to-mouth so we can plead. So, setting up a corporation, not a joint network operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10311	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10313	Well, the replica is a colleague of Vajzović. In fact, here the term of a common network operator has been used because, in a way, it's agreed between entities and I don't know either, so it's agreed that this one is only digitisation in this second conclusion, so not all of the jobs that the corporation is supposed to be doing on behalf of the system. It is simply because, together with then-Minister Mr Matanović, it is agreed to use the term community network operator to avoid creating a problem in digitisation, unnecessary. And there's an open process that goes right. Here, and you shouldn't change this term.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10314	Replica, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10315	I thank the chairman. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10316	I'm sorry, first Aleksandra Pandurević replica, then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10317	Thank you. Dear counterpart Novaković said a lot of what I was going to say, but there is one addition here, and it should be known that this conclusion of the Council of 70 ministers already implemented a good part of the Council of 70 ministers, which probably happened in the meantime, because at the 34th session of the Council of Ministers on 8 December 2015 the information on the possibilities of moving from T to T2 standard was adopted, and there is what is commendable indeed on the work of the Council of Ministers, meaning the conclusions adopted on the proposal of the Ministry of Transport's Ministry of Transport's Ministry of Transport's proposal: That the Ministry of Communication and Transport is in charge of preparing and delivering the Council of Ministers for the discussion and adoption of the proposal for a decision on the award of MUX to public TV services in BiH was previously intended for some private, already known to provide the necessary capacity for both public broadcasters of BiH and commercial broadcasters in BiH to meet the EU standard. And the following conclusion: To be in charge of the Public TV Service System Board that within 30 days of the date of adoption of the Information means by 08 January, network operator MUX A and MUX B are registering. The point is that MUX B was destined for private, and now, with this MUX B, it will have public services, which will enable them to make additional revenues rather than private. So this applies to this part of the conclusion and I just want to say that it's correct to know that the Ministry of Traffic has already done a good part of that job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10318	Replica, Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10319	Thank you. In fact, I think that here I'm replicating my colleague Novaković, so there's no need for us to decry here to show something that's clearly legally defined as a corporation. It is common here, therefore, to establish – a common network operator, instead of standing – corporations, because it is recognised in the law as well. I don't think there's any need, but I don't think it's the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10320	Thank you. Replica, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10321	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. I'd say a few words about this. At today's session, we are discussing cumulatively the current financial situation and the endangered business of RTV BiH, without adequate material for quality discussion. And we are discussing the conclusions which, in some ways, have not been fully crediblely passed on to the Commission in accordance with the debate. And what conclusions can we draw today? We can make a show for the public that we take care of BHRT, take care of everyone, and basically on the basis of which we can draw any conclusions and recommendations today. I think it would be rational to authorise the Commission for Transport of the House of Representatives to schedule, until the next session is scheduled, a thematic session to be called by representatives of the Public Broadcasting System Committee, all three public broadcasters, representatives of the Ministry, and that, on the basis of this debate, we will reach certain conclusions where we will offer responsible conclusions to the House of Representatives. Everything else we do, I'm afraid we won't do it in a quality way, respecting the very difficult economic and social status of employees, the excess employees, all the other problems that are present. I also think that we here have little knowledge of this process and digitization, the establishment of a corporation, etc. And that we have enough time to get to the next 71 sessions, once again I want to repeat, that the Transport Commission of the House of Representatives is empowered, the thematic one is scheduled and that we offer valid and quality conclusions at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10322	Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10323	Well, I have to say that the Commission has not memorized these two conclusions. I don't know how my colleague Košarac's thinking now, he was on the Commission, we had there and in front of the Committee of the System, and in front of the management of BHRT, and in front of the Sinidikat, and I don't think I need to discuss at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on RTRS, I don't think I need to think about it, I don't need to discuss it, nor do I think that's what the Federal Parliament is about, but what I think I should do is BHRT, because it's my job as a member and chairman of the Commission. So the conclusions were adopted like this and I went and listened to the video from the Commission session and they were adopted like this, and I read them before adopting them, and we all voted for them, we unanimously adopted these. What is more than clear, I said, the debate on the Commission was such that we simply cannot expect the Board of Directors of BHRT to resolve this issue, there must be all three public broadcasters and therefore I supported Mr. Bojić's proposal to delete this Board of Directors of BHRT rather than remain just the Committee of the System, which is in accordance with the Law, please. The law says the Board of Systems and we have a corrected proposal. Why can't it be a corporation? He can't, he can be, of course, we can adopt everything, but this job is coordinated with the Ministry. Minister Matanović and I then agreed on these conclusions on the Commission. The bottom line is, we're just looking for a solution to digitization here, so we don't stop the process that's going on. The corporation is a much wider concept and it implies others, and it is not disputed that the law requires it to be formed. When it's formed that we can't, at least I can't influence it, I don't think any of us can influence it here. I was obliged to explain now that he's not going in the wrong direction. I think we have the conclusions. They need to be made known today. But I also agree with Mr. Šepić's proposal, which is close to Mr. Košarac's proposal, to discuss the financial situation in BHRT at the next session. But until then, the Council of Ministers will have to prepare the material for us, the Committee will have to say what is the system that will guarantee safe and effective collection and sustainability of public services. This obviously isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10324	Thank you. Replica, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10325	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. 72 We have an open question about the TV subscription, the way it's going to pick up the TV subscription, we have it open. I don't know, I think that... BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10326	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10327	Yes, but if we say that this is done by electricity, the Council of Ministers cannot assign the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska without the consent of the Republika Srpska government, because it is the owner of the Republika Srpska government. BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10328	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10329	Well, that's just... that's why I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10330	Please don't discuss me to yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10331	At no point did I say that RTRS should be the subject of the BiH House of Representatives or Parliament, it is the subject of the National Assembly and is the subject of Republika Srpska, such as the Federal Federal Parliament. I just want to say that on this kind of approach we'll draw conclusions that won't be applicable and it won't be adequate, and we won't be in a hurry, nothing will be 10 days, nothing will be 10 days. Again, this problem will arise for us, this is often on the agenda of the Transport Commission, we are completely inefficient, we are all completely inefficient there in the Commission. Here, there are people who are members of this Commission who confirm the same thing I'm talking about. It can, there's a deadline... to adopt these conclusions, I don't think they're adequate, that adequately... I don't think it's your fault, but I think maybe we can come to better conclusions together and suggest that we come to better conclusions at the thematic session. It's just a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10332	Thank you. Replica, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10333	Thank you. I'm also taking this opportunity to give an explanation in terms of agreeing that this is a very difficult topic that has been going on for a long time, but I as an MP can only react in a way that I can suggest something that the House of Representatives discusses if I have information about it. I can't force the Council of Ministers to run for office before I do, so this is a knowledge-based reaction. I therefore propose, and agree that there should be thorough preparation and that they should be present, as should present today also representatives of the Council of Ministers at previous points, that 73 should ensure the presence of those who are responsible and who can give us full information and a proposal for a solution that we will discuss, I propose that the Council of Ministers be asked to prepare within 30 days all necessary materials and information necessary for the discussion of the agenda point of current financial status and the compromised business of public broadcaster systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10334	Thank you. We're going to a regular discussion, Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10335	Well, after these discussions, you can see a lot of justification for this point of the agenda, which is what we are discussing today, and what fellow Emrić has put this item on the agenda. The fact is that colleagues have presented a number of facts and the fact is that this problem is very difficult to solve, right? What worries me a little is the factor time, we all know that with 31.12. this Interim decision to collect TV subscription in BHRT stands out, so it remains for January to collect December's subscription and then we come to one situation that we really have to solve this problem. There were good ones here, in my opinion, suggestions for the Council of Ministers to be in charge of the next session, but I think we have one good basis, and these conclusions have been corrected with this conclusion by Mr. Bojić, because because of the law and everything, so that these conclusions are adopted, with these conclusions bound by the Council of Ministers to be already in the next session, so together with the Committee of the System, we have some proposal. I'm not saying if it's any kind of proposal from Elektroprivreda, Telekom or anyone or anything we've heard today, but it would really be the deadline for us to have a proposal there by 12. What do I mean? Indeed, indeed, we MPs are calling us from BHRT phones, and we're talking, and we're talking, and we really have one responsibility to do something about it. And that is why I would ask and I think that, today, it would be good to adopt these conclusions, with me in this conclusion first, where it is said that the House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers of BiH to, in co-operation with entity governments, assist the Committee of the System in the realization of this conclusion, give a deadline for it to be until the next session. We have to go faster, we'll come back five to twelve, and we won't do anything. And I believe that here the President of the Commission has really given a good explanation, entered into this problem, and it is not a problem for us to make the Commission's thematic session a quick appointment after the New Year's, but some deadline for the next Parliament's session where we will discuss concrete matters. So much, and I think we should adopt these conclusions today with these adjustments.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10336	Thank you. We've got replicas now. Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10337	So I just want to ask my colleagues, don't refer any suggestions to the Council of Ministers. The Board of Systems is responsible, it is a company of people, managed by the Management Board, in this case the Committee of Three Public Services is, the system is, the service is in the System. So, don't have any jurisdiction, it's not a state-owned firm so it's a government response, only the 74 System Management Board can solve this situation. He's responsible for the charge, he's responsible for the fee, he's responsible for the relationship. And all the questions you're running for running for the Board of the System, the Council of Ministers is not allowed to interfere. Don't let the things we've mixed up in, that's why it's so much, because it's a mistake that we didn't postpone it, because now it's such a papacy that... how we're gonna get out of this. It's not enough and one and the other conclusions have, are problematic, troublesome waiting to... but don't make another request to refer to the Council of Ministers because it's not his job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10338	Okay, thank you. Replica, Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10339	I don't know if I've gone too far, which is my replica, I just wanted to confirm this, so it's the board of systems that's obviously done something, they've done something, but no one has found a solution. Here this time the question is obviously to be or not to be. And so I agree that things should not be watered down and sent to the Council of Ministers, so while they do this, while we, as citizens and as representatives here, should be very interested in resolving this issue. It's not the same as when, although it's so represented, June 17th digitization from analog to digital – now it's going to be dark, it's not going to happen even though everyone said it was going to be, here are the money, here are the money, they can't survive at all if they don't solve this tax issue. Anything else pull her out, maybe one way or another, but that's the main source of income. And I don't know if the Commission once again, what does that mean again, some public hearing or what, I don't know what we're going to do anymore, they've said it all by now, but I would agree that maybe, the key in their hands, the system committee, that they're going again, but now we can say it all, but they're going to Parliament anyway, and they're asking the Commission, this one, this one, the RAC, or whoever, but I think we all really need to be interested in this issue being resolved, so we shouldn't let this down the water go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10340	Thank you. Replica, Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10341	Well, just to be clear, I don't know if it's a replica, but here I am focusing on the Commission's conclusions. On the Commission he was in front of the Council of Ministers, and in this conclusion, here we all know legally that it is heading towards the Committee of the System, but it is right here to help, so. takoċer he says - The House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to help the system committee realise this conclusion, in co-operation with entity governments. So, but we're looking for a deadline, too, so that's the deadline, so we're not asking him to do it, we're asking him to help, so. I just read the conclusions that are there.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10342	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10343	I thank the chairman. I'm thinking that three years ago when the SDS Parliament Club sent two laws here and that these laws were supported and adopted today would not have BHRT had these problems and today no public service would have these problems, as public services would have financed from the budget. This is also happening in Serbia, the public service is being financed, even as a transitional solution. We're trying to find a solution here, and when it's said, and all of our colleagues here have talked about the RTD subscription, we're treating the consequences, not the cause, and I'm afraid we're going to face these consequences again, because look at that 20 million is due to BHRT from the charge. The other thing, people don't want to pay the subscription, we have to solve the reasons why citizens don't want to pay the subscription, you have whole cantons where the subscription doesn't pay. In Republika Srpska, a huge drop in subscription fees. Why? Because one public service serves only one political party. Well, when we settle that, then we can expect a rise in the subscription. I'm afraid any law and method of subscribe to establish here, that we'll have a quiet boycott of the citizens again that they won't pay for it. I think the solution again is to get us back to that SDS Club proposal three years ago, which is to get the public services back to the budget, maybe we'll give them back a little team and democracy, because if they don't adopt two, three parties, and then control those services will have two, three political parties, and not just one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10344	Thank you. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10345	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. If I can help out a little bit, we can get out of this wagon. So here's what it takes to maybe break this debate this way, because we're all talking about everything, and I think it's a point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10346	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10347	This is why the agenda is not included. In fact, at a meeting of the Commission for Transport and Communications, the Minister responsible informed us that the Council of Ministers is preparing a decision to support public services in the amount of, I think, about a million KM to pay a fee for Eurovision membership, I think, or I don't know, and that public services will beat up their debts in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10348	I apologize, Novaković and Backović, please, you can hear me. [[Common discussion]] I said Novaković and Backović. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10350	Therefore, it is clear that it is the responsibility of the System Management Board, but the Council of Ministers is thus involved in helping the very difficult financial situation in which all public broadcasters have burned. So I think these discussions of ours should be in the sense that, let us support these conclusions. If we need to modify them, let us modify them, here are some proposals here, but that we are needlessly having a debate on the financial situation, the overall financial situation in public broadcasters, I don't think we have any argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10351	Thank you. We're going back to the discussion. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10352	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. So, I wanted to say something on this subject. Here, so we fellow MPs are now discussing this topic, if we have anyone, we have just recently raised on the subject of European integration, which we are talking about, so neither are we, but that is who this subject is more important than European integration, perhaps here it is, and here I agree and I will discuss it. A colleague, Novaković, said well, so the chairman of this commission, that they are whining about BHRT without entity broadcasters complaining because they are in some way killing. However, why is this happening? It happens because gentlemen the law does not apply almost entirely. It's not just a story about a tv fee and only someone turned that story into a bill, so give us the money and you don't care anymore, the law doesn't apply at all. So, the law does not implement in this part that the entity laws are not in line with this, and then it happens that the money from the TV subscription does not lie on the Unique Account, so it is not shared by the System Board at all but shared by whoever it is. The second thing, so the law is not respected when it comes to corporates, we're just... the law is not respected when in, uh, distribution of funds, the law is not respected when it comes to digitisation, the conclusions of the 2008 House of Peoples are not carried out, and now this last one from 2015, so nothing is being implemented, and so it's just insisting on resolving the question of harvesting RTV fees. As far as I'm concerned, Mrs. Pandurević said one idea that I can talk about, so here's the budget, I don't mind getting rid of it once and for all, so let's bridge the time. However, this issue must be resolved, so the law is not respected and the only, in my view, possible way to bring about the amendment and the addition of the law or the amendment of the law in this matter. So, and then because we no longer listen to this tape until we pass out, I'm sure when we have ten more sessions of these that we won't get out of this until we make the law that we've agreed and implemented. Therefore, I propose the conclusion, therefore, to add, if it is already necessary to these or the conclusion, it is my suggestion that the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Resorient Ministry should propose to Parliament, within a maximum of 60 days, amendments and additions to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, and to take account of the conclusions and discussions held in the Parliamentary Assembly and the views of the European Parliament Resolution on the State of BiH... 2015. I think that's where all the answers are, all the questions are asked, so let the Resort Ministry offer to amend and supplement the law. That's the only way we can get out of this. I think even if we intervened like this, we wouldn't finish the story again. I suggest, therefore, this conclusion. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10353	Thank you. Discussion, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10354	Well, I'll do it again, it's hard after, at the end of the debate and after the abuse of the permanent correction of the wrong quote, etc., to say something new on this subject, but I'll at least try to say something different. I reject any responsibility of this Parliament regarding the financial situation of the Public TV System, at least as regards the application of Article 18 of the Law. Article 18 is very clear, isolatedly even good, he has clearly defined who determines the payment of RTV fees – the Board of Systems, gave in paragraph (3) and more modes, the payment of tv fees... public TV services through their own services or that job on a contractual basis to trust other legal persons. And then Parliament, the Council of Ministers intervened, so on the seabed, on the tightening of our hand, that agreement was defined by us. Why? Every serious business system, and all our three broadcasters should be serious business systems, would already have made sure through this year to establish their own collection system and their own database. So if it's expensive monthly invoices, which is, you'd be invoiced three months, half-years, etc. had its own income and would not create wooden iron type BH Telekom and type Electroprivreda. But if you want to solve this problem in the short term, I say a short-term, only reasonable solution, the only possible solution – existing... for one more time to continue on the basis of a contractual basis, because there is a database, there is a stalking system and nothing costs to continue one stalking job. I say, uh, bad, what this Parliament is certainly responsible for, and the Council of Ministers is a disastrously bad law that defines this matter, just what counterpart Lovrinović said, a law that does not apply in most of its provisions. The most important thing about me as a biological member and a political representative of the Croatian people is the non-application of Articles 8 and 26 of the law which should define the broadcasting and reproduction of programmes in the official languages of the constituent peoples. But what we all have to worry about is Articles 6, 12, 13, 14 and 62 of the law defines the establishment of a corporation and everything it means, and to me from the Council of Ministers the answer is that the establishment and management of a corporation depends exclusively on the goodwill of three broadcasters. Listen to the law that, whose implementation depends on anyone's goodwill. And therefore, the fundamental thing here is this conclusion that my colleague Lovrinović presented. When it comes to public broadcasters, I cannot accept any conclusion, not a single set of conclusions that contains no conclusion that it should be given a certain period, whether it is 60 days, 90, to the competent body, to the competent ministry, to make any changes and additions to the existing law at all points in which the law is not applied and to solve these acute problems of the functioning of this law, and also to the problems of civil disobedience which some of us show in relation to the RTV tax and a number of other problems. No conclusion will be made if there is no conclusion within it that the existing law and at least needs to be corrected. I fear it is better to make a new law, because this law does not apply in a series of articles, in almost half of the articles. Isolated to see the issue of financial sustainability, which is very important, is wrong. I agree that in the short term it is necessary to do something and it is only possible to do it only in the short term, and this is to be done by the Committee of the Systems, on a contractual basis, to continue the financing, i.e. the collection of tv fees with the existing system. Every new system requires expenses and time, and we don't have each other. So then you can think within that new law, I would say, not about financing in this country, the issue of tv fees and fees in this way, in one way or another, it won't work much longer, but then you can think that 78 public broadcasters are being financed, I wouldn't say from the budget, from the budget, as my colleague Pandurević said, because it's rude in relation to maybe independence or... public broadcasters, but from the public revenues yes. It's another expression that similar... to the question, but solves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10355	Thank you. Discussion, Dušanka Majkić. Oh, excuse me, Nikola Lovrinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10356	So here's a supplement. Some things I forgot to mention when it comes to how you charge. A colleague of the Commission did not say that once at the meeting, there was a person from the Consumer Protection Directorate, and we were told then that the Consumer Protection Act does not allow one account to stand, so obligations based on two services. So it's very questionable whether at all from any way or by a telecom operator or by an electric operator, so in one account, two services can be pointed out. So, as I recall, that's when the lady from that agency said that it was in accordance with this law discriminatory. And the other thing I wanted to complete my colleague is, for example, when the law has not been settled, and as far as I know, these private public TV houses with cable operators have contracts. You know they black out when they ask, that something can't go when it's meant to be financial. I don't know why public broadcasters don't say cable, you can't play our program until you agree with us. So, and that's a question that maybe needs to be solved, as solved by TV Nova. Simply none of the TV cable operators can play until they get their consent, or until they pay. So it's possible in hundreds of ways to solve this issue, but all you have to do is sit down and finally finish it. But it seems to me the only thing that's possible is the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10357	Debate, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10358	Well, thank you. Well, if I look back at these conclusions, none of the other conclusions could be implemented, i.e. they were not laid down to be legal and to be constitutional. So, we said that this first conclusion brings together the Council of Ministers where it doesn't belong, because the organisational tax collection units are three public services, although the charge is only two. Who's defending BHRT from getting engaged in a subscription, too. A team before BHRT gets 50% subscription and another 50% share the other two broadcasters. Well, whoever came up with it is original. It's real. Those who work, produce, collect a subscription, they get 25%, and the one who sits and waits gets 50%. There's no solution to this situation, maybe this is exactly why. Secondly, the way in which the fees are charged is determined by the Committee of the System. And now watch out, formed a Working Group of public broadcasters, all three sat in that Working Group and submitted a proposal to the Committee of the System for that solution. And nothing, nobody pleads. So clockwork, maybe it's one of the variants, one of the models that we need to consider. Niko's talking about it. If someone thinks they're going to get rid of the situation by the huge losses made by BHRT, that's why there's no corporation for 10 years, that's going to get somewhere. He won't. TVRS doesn't have any need for that, and federal television won't want that 79 either. Somebody's got to pay for it. The Council of Ministers cannot and must not, cannot invest the funds of institutions in the company. So these are things that can't be arranged. Now what it is, means a message that the tv system itself is sorting out the way a new way to subscribe. Who's defending him? But we're dealing here as we should, whether it should be electro-distribution. None of them are the answer. Well, it's embarrassing for so many years that they haven't established their own databases, that they don't have who their subscribers are. Imagine sitting around waiting for money or knowing who your subscribers are or when that money will come to you. Well, that's amazing. Now another thing about this second conclusion, why he's not okay. By the way, a network operator is thinking of a corporation. She didn't live for famous reasons. No one's going to draw those losses, the equipment that's being worked out, what's it gonna do to anyone. What's going on now? The corporation can only be founded by an entity agreement. And that's where we refer to Article 1. Anexa IX, who says -- the sides, meaning the Federation and Republika Srpska, are setting up a Commission on Public Corporations to discuss the establishment of public corporations to handle joint public capacities. What does that mean? This means that each of these operators is also, each public service is also a network operator. So until the entities agree, anything else can be done, there's no corporation. And we're unnecessarily struggling here. The problem is that when someone says the Emperor is naked, they sit there together, so three public broadcasters sit together and talk about all these things for so many years and they haven't found a solution. And we are now trying to do it within this one session to find that solution. We can't. The key question we've been asking, I've been on the commission for years, which prevents you from doing that, not debt, not debt. We haven't mentioned anything else about them yet, about not being told what it is, about debt being capable of one another. That's where we went, that's where we'd just go to infinity. So this Parliament has no information or capacity to deal with this. This has to be solved by the Board of Systems. That means the three emitters are sitting down, two will probably think alike, the third I'm not sure about. That third one hasn't had his status fixed all these years. So the question of starting a corporation doesn't exist without
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10359	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10360	the consent of both entities, which should say they will finance these losses so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10361	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10362	I should ask twice, so let me react to two discussions. It's all right, but according to what we've adopted, the Roadmap, we can't do it without a state public broadcaster. Tell me who's going to play the World Cup games, tell me who's going from the European Cup to football, in basketball, who's going to... _________(?) 80 [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, please. So look, ask who can do it and what they have to do with me international... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10366	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10367	I'll finish it, just to finish it, please. Let's take it, if we can't use electricity, or electrotransmission, let's take the way Croatia and Serbia do it. In Croatia, the state collects, enters the budget, and the state disburses. And the state's disintegrating. Those who have houses in Croatia as a weekend know that by every summer, they get paid for what has been declared a tourist season, a fee for broadcasting TV programs, paid neatly. Therefore, the state can do that, too, to say that the state will charge and the state will disburse. We have two models. One over, one way, and the other over the state. We are irresponsible to the TV system because it is one of the conditions of EU accession. That could have been solved a long time ago. Let us handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10368	Deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10369	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 81 So, Parliament, this year's House of Representatives, met on two occasions with this issue in a moment, in a single time frame. You know that on April 26th of this year, the five-year deadline prescribed by the Law on Paying for a TV fee has expired in the way that it has been settled. That after that we held a debate here at the House of Representatives, that there was also a Law in the House of Representatives that extended this deadline from, for 6 months, that the deadline expires, but that the Management Board of the System in agreement with the telecom operators extended it by 6 months, still still still still still valid and at that time, the system of billing for tv fees. And we have two questions today. One issue is an urgent issue, as all this raises the second question, the question of the future, the question of the vision and how to resolve the collection, the financing of public, the overall system and public services within the system. That's why I think what our Commission did, the way it is today, we can accept it, fixed by Mr. Novaković, no Mr. Bojić suggested, but I think Mr. Novaković's handwriting, as far as I can see, is something that we can accept. It basically appeals to the Committee of the System to do this part of the job prescribed by the Law on the Public TV System. So we have out of four laws, as many as we have in this area, two have been passed in the Parliamentary Assembly, so this is the System and Service Act and two entity laws, each entity by one service law. This is a related issue, and regardless of what is being discussed here, there is a System Management Board and this is all a system and there is one subject system that has not been implemented by the System Law. But there's a board of directors of the system, and it's true that this is a question that we're discussing, and we know that it's something that has a distribution that's prescribed by the System Law. Half of the total funds from both marketing and TV subscription is for the State Service, the other half to equal parts according to the other two broadcasters, entity broadcasters. So I suggest that today we adopt what the Commission has done, as it has been modified here today. I don't think it's a violation of any jurisdiction, of any jurisdiction, so we need to do business here. That's one thing, then. Second of all, I don't think this way we're going to solve the issue of extending these deadlines. I think it would be a good idea if the board of directors of the system tried to get the telecom operators to extend this deadline for another time. I think that Mr. Kožul said this thing, and I think it's a good suggestion that the Council of Ministers of BiH must be involved here, because in the future we have to find one, I think a different system of financing public services, or a total system, to include the Council of Ministers of BiH to see what it is we need to do to establish a sustainable financing system. So I'm not running away to be, we can call it out of public income, we can call it out of the budget, whatever, just let us get an analysis of what it really means when it comes to the independence of these systems, because we shouldn't go into an area where we can influence the way they're financed by their independence. It's possible to find that kind of model. I therefore propose that today, therefore, we adopt this conclusion which the Commission itself has defined today in this supplement, I take it as the conclusion of the Commission. And there was one proposal in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare us with one full piece of information, that we have at the next session, because we have to monitor this situation until we resolve it. And the appeal is, therefore, on the board of directors of the system, because simply the system can't stop working, it threatens us to stop broadcasting, to see what can be done to extend that deadline, to make the system work. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10370	Thank you very much. 82 I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate at points 10 and 11. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Appropriations for acts adopted by the World Postal Federation (UNU) at the 25th UPU Congress held in 2012 in Doha (General Regulation of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol of the World Postal Convention and the Postal Financial Services Agreement) You've been given the authority's opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm taking the debate by point 12. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. As far as the debate is concerned, we have exhausted today's session agenda. Now we'll take a vote. You agree, maybe 10 minutes. Here, my colleagues disagree, as far as I'm concerned, I'm ready right now, but how about 10 minutes? Here's 10 minutes to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10375	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10376	Who agreed? Please, we're making something here that isn't. We have the findings of the commission that we've got here. We have Mr. Borislav Bojić's interventions that intervene on these conclusions. If we adopt these conclusions and adopt Mr. Bojić, they will in turn be an intervention to these conclusions. [[Common discussion]] No, it's no problem that I'm giving these now, but we can't separate, though, let me just say it's not practice, you know. I'll warn you, it's always the Commission's proposals first, we plead them out and I take care of business. All others in order to come to the conclusion proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10378	Please ask Mom if Momo, or Bojić, presented this supplement on behalf of the Commission. If that's...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10379	No, it's not, it's not on behalf of the Commission. It's right on behalf of the MPs. So, I've stuck with it and I think we should be doing business to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10380	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-12-30-1.u10381	That's right. So we're going with the commission's proposals. So we're voting on the Commission's proposals for conclusions. Of the 37 present for 25, versus 7, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 18 for, 1 versus, 5 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the proposals of the Transport and Connection Committee. Now let's go to Mr. Bojić's conclusions. You know what they are, the intervention in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. So, we can explain, because it stands – if we adopt 86 requests from Mr. Bojić to take real intervention in the previous conclusions of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Well, we're voting on this proposal that I've just read. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Only in point 1, that's right, it says, exactly that item 1 is not changing. Start the vote. Of the 37 present – for 23, against 7, abstentions 7. The Federation of BiH 16 for, 1 against, 7 abstentions, RS 7za, 6 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the proposals for Mr Bojić's conclusion, which refers to the proposal for a 1st conclusion from the Transport and Connection Committee. Moving to point 12. – Giving consent to acts adopted by the World Postal Federation (UNU) at the 25th UPU Congress, held in 2012 in Doha (General Regulation of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol of the World Postal Convention and the Postal Financial Services Agreement). We are voting on granting consent to ratifying the World Postal Union Act. Of the 38 present – for 37, nothing against, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH 24 for, nothing against, 1 abstention, RS 13 for, nothing against, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have agreed to the acts of the World Postal Union. This concludes the 22nd session of the House of Representatives. I note, that the next House session is scheduled for 12 January 2016. It is New Year's Eve and Orthodox Christmas, all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on behalf of the College, on behalf of this House of Representatives, I would like to congratulate you on performing Orthodox Christmas. And thank you all for your cooperation. Session completed at 4:05 p.m.
