ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9164	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, Ms Borjana Krišto, is justly absent and I will chair this session as the first deputy. I am opening the 20th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I now ask you to honor the members of the Armed Forces of BiH, killed in a terrorist act carried out in Sarajevo, Nedeljko Radić and Armin Salkić, as well as all victims of a brutal terrorist attack in Paris on 13 November 2015 and other victims of terrorist attacks carried out recently in the world. /
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9165	Praise them, Bog rest their soul. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of this House. Media representatives were invited to do so. Representatives of the BiH institutions' audit office whose financial audit reports for Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2014 are also invited to attend the session's agenda. Representatives of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption whose Information is on the agenda of the session are also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda sent a notice that BiH Foreign Minister Mirsad Crnadak would attend the session on behalf of this ministry; BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak sent a notice that he would not be able to attend the session due to earlier commitments; Human Rights Minister Semiha Borovac sent a notice that he was unable to attend the session. The absence was justified by MP Milica Marković and MPs Jelko Komšić, Sadik Ahmetović and Borjana Krišto. According to the service, 36 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you are indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask two parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Demir Bećirović – Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH; Amir Fazlić – Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH. poslanik Bećirović and Fazlić asked oral questions at last session of the House, but the oral response was not received due to the absence of the BiH foreign minister. A subsequent reply has been provided in writing to these questions but MPs will be allowed to ask questions in oral form today if they so wish. Miroslav Milovanović – the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; jasmin Emrić – the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Salko Sokolović – Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; Šemsudin Mehmedović – Minister of Security of BiH; Hanka Vajzović – Minister of Security of BiH; Predrag Kožul – the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and BiH Minister of Civil Affairs; Saša Magazinović – Minister of Security of BiH; Damir Arnaut – Minister of Justice of BiH. I would like to point out that a Member of Parliament, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, and MP Nikola Špirić, have delivered the oral questions at the end of 24 hours before the meeting, as provided for in Article 172, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure, which is why they are not even included in this session, will be included in the next House session to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. These questions are in accordance with Article 172. The Rules of Procedure, delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers on which the issue concerns. So I would like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Article 171(1). Rules of Procedure. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the messengers will present them in this order. We can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Parliamentarian Damir Bećirović, if he wants to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9166	Dear Chairman, I will still wait for the minister to be present at the session and then I would ask the question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9167	All right, you have the right to do that, even though you've got the answer in writing you have the right to directly ask the question. I give my word to MP Amir Fazlić, so if he wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9168	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, media and others present. Since the Minister has not this time and has justified his absence and specificity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, and the activities of the minister, and since I have received a written reply that I would plead when the minister is here, because he confirms some of my allegations on the issue, I would still wait for the minister to be present and use his right to ask him again. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9169	Okay, thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Miroslav Milovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9170	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers. I think it's pointless to ask the question I referred to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I suggest and ask you to leave this question of mine for one of the next sessions when Mr. Chairman is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9171	All right. Mr. Đonlagić, is it a business intervention or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9172	...I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. 16.11. I have referred a parliamentary question to the Justice Ministry and I am not included in the list of those who will ask the question today. I don't know why, but here's the thing, if there's any chance I'd ask you to be me to those who will set up a sweat at today's session. ...and properly protocold.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9174	Here's what I'm getting from the secretary right now. I'm getting information that that question has not been delivered to the secretary's office. It's probably, I don't doubt that you're...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9175	16.11. Here is the protocol – Bosnia and Herzegovina, Parliamentary Assembly, here is the seal of the protocol.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9176	Okay, so I don't doubt you delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9177	No, I don't even think it's tenorous, probably someone made a mistake and I think and I'm asking that failure to be corrected and I'm asking a question today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9178	We agree on that. Mr. Špirić, is it a business intervention? Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9179	...the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. You're right, Mr. Chairman, when you said it was outside the Rules of Procedure... with a... parliamentary question, but since there are today colleagues waiting to be ministers and chairman I would ask that the House plead, because there are actually parliamentary issues that time... And I'm not much of a theater person when it comes to parliamentary matters, but we're simply looking for promiscuous answers. And that's why I'm asking you, if possible, to make it clear that I'm asking this question today, not to politicize it... if there's a possibility. So, you're right that... considering... I'd like Dom to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9180	So I understand your question, but you see it's in line with the Rules of Procedure. The answer to your question has not been prepared, so the Rules of Procedure set out time for those who should be prepared for this answer. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9181	...on the next, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9182	Yeah, but I'm sorry it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, I give my word to Jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9183	I thank the chairman. That's a nice greeting to all those in the O.R. I have asked the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent authorities responsible for implementing the border traffic agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question is: What activities have been carried out in this year, what has been done, and that all preparatory actions and procedures have been carried out by the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to open a permanent border crossing for the border traffic of tržački Raštel – kordunski Ljeskovac? I would like to remind myself that at the beginning of this year, I asked such a parliamentary question in oral form, and I was interested in what stage the procedure for opening this border crossing is, that is, when the border traffic agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally be implemented. Then I received a reply from the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of Bosnia and Herzegovina that they will, in accordance with their powers, do everything to finally implement and implement the border regime agreement at this border crossing. I am interested – What has been concretely done this year, and when we can expect this border crossing to be opened for residents in accordance with the border regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9184	Thank you. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, who will answer this question? 5 There is no one who has prepared an answer to this question. So if we don't have an answer to this question, we'll make an emergency with the Council of Ministers for the next session. I'm sorry that it is, I suppose the question was delivered in time and it was necessary to prepare an answer for the MP, so there is nothing left but that question... at the next session. Here you go, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9185	I asked 17.11.2015, or announced the question. I think there's enough time for the Council of Ministers to prepare this response. And I must say that I am very disappointed with the passiveness of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' bodies regarding the implementation of the Border Transport Agreement. I was in the previous sessions when I asked a question to open this border crossing and gave sufficient evidence that it was fully justified to implement the Agreement as soon as possible. Thus, a visit to the site found that the Republic of Croatia had very serious access to the implementation of the Agreement. They are in the final phase of building all necessary infrastructure facilities to open this border crossing. I am therefore impressed by this passive relationship between our bodies and institutions on a very important issue, which is the implementation and literal implementation of the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9186	Thank you, Mr. Emrić. And I think it's an unacceptable relationship not to provide anyone who would answer such an important question. I guess that's part of it because there's no Council of Ministers who, as far as I'm concerned, is on his way to China, otherwise they'd ask him what's going on. I give my word to Ambassador Salki Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. The issue is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Minister or someone from the Ministry. At the 8th session of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 11 March 2015, I asked an oral question to the deputy foreign trade and economic relations ministers. I wasn't happy with the answer. It should have provided a realistic assessment of the overall state of the dairy sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and related to exports to the EU market, as a visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina was made during that period by the EU veterinary inspection. I note that in the final report, the EU inspection gave a number of recommendations to the competent authorities. The key recommendation is to strengthen the Organisation of Official Controls, their powers, supervisory powers, which are also subject to the powers to effectively apply the legislation with a view to ensuring consistency or... with relevant EU requirements for the production of milk products intended for export to the EU. As representatives of the EU Food and Veterinary Office arrive in Bosnia and Herzegovina early next year, I have three questions on the subject. Question 1. – Have you implemented all activities in accordance with the Law on Veterinary, Food and Rural Development Act with EU legislation, with particular emphasis on defining the jurisdiction and chain of command? 6 2. When will the legal solutions mentioned come to Parliament for plenary debate, or have you achieved the necessary level of co-operation and coordination with the competent entity ministries to address the observed deficiencies in the inspection report? I remind the Ministry here, although I know that they know very well the problems on this subject, that they must do so, to fulfil the obligations of the Action Plan which are the product of the objections made by the EU inspection, because unless we do so until the next control, which is the beginning of this year, I assume that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be caused damage, given the amount of milk we export to the EU, to EU countries. It's millions of dollars in damages, but it'll also create a loss of existing jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9188	Thank you. Any of the Department of Foreign Trade give an answer? As far as I know, the minister is on his way, but is there anyone else? This is already becoming symptomatic, so we will have to hold a conversation with the Council of Ministers on relations between the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers on parliamentary issues. Since there is no one who would give an answer instead of the Council of Ministers and this issue will be postponed for the next session. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović should ask the next question. Here you go, Mr. Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9189	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I welcome you. We were just getting started, the whole Council of Ministers was present at all the sessions, but here, it's obvious that time goes by that we have no one to ask questions. It seems to me only those ministers who are otherwise regular and on board. But here, I'm still going to ask the question, no matter how I don't see the Minister of Security who I referred this question to, because I expected him to answer today. In fact, at a time when the entire world's public is fighting terrorism, we have an absurd situation. It is found unofficially that one of the assistants of the Security Minister has been wrongly convicted of the crime of terrorism in the neighbouring country, and that the second-degree court has annulled the verdict and returned the Court of Justice to rejuvenation. The same person has refused to receive a call from the competent court several times, and the same person does not want to respond to the court of the neighbouring State so that the case may continue. Since it is the assistant secretary of security, the authorised person with access to classified information, who apparently avoids justice, my question is the minister: Does the law have grounds for suspending him, suspending him from accessing classified information, and temporarily evading him from work as is the case with other civil servants and when a disciplinary procedure is initiated and not when the indictment is legal? Secondly, was the court's call received at the Ministry and what is he intending to do about it? Third, how can such a high-ranking civil servant avoid justice, destroy Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation without the minister in charge keeping his mouth shut? Fourthly, does the minister have any insight into the work of such a person, especially when it comes to co-operation with international security services, since it is the same person on the counterterrorism team, and what can cause irreparable damage, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the reputation of security services in international relations? Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9190	Thank you. Since the minister isn't here, there's a deputy. Here you go, Mr. Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9191	Good afternoon, everyone. The Honorable Chairman, the chairman, the secretary, the honourable MPs. When it comes to the issue, Mr. Mehmedović's parliamentary question, so at this point I can answer a part of the question. The person Mr. Vjeko Vuković, assistant minister, has the permission to access classified information that he received under the Protection of Secret Information Act. A complete security check has been made and, therefore, a request was submitted on 14 January 2013, a basic, specific and additional questionnaire and, therefore, feedback from the Intelligence and Security Agency, which is carrying out a security clearance check, with the results of an extended security check being returned to the Ministry of Security on 16 September 2013. And on the basis of the report delivered, the security minister made a solution in 23/09/2013 on the absence of a security disturbance, and on the same day issued a security clearance. I note that the licence is valid and that it is valid for access to secret data from Bosnia and Herzegovina. From this moment until today at the Ministry of Security, i.e. in the case of Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković, nothing has changed, so, in relation to the last period and before and after. So, of course, a more detailed answer to this parliamentary question will also be made in written form to the respected representative Mehmedović. So here's what I can say right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9192	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović, you have the right to comment for one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9193	Well, look, obviously we're not all equal before the law. On the one hand, the deputy(s) Defence Minister Marina Pendeš is withdrawn from the clearance for access to classified information because the indictment has been confirmed, on the other hand we have the situation we have but since 2013. I note to the Deputy Minister of Security that this is 2015 and that it is obvious that the assistant minister avoids responding to the court, which is preventing justice. So I expect an answer in writing, and then I will, and here, I will retain the right to comment... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9194	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9195	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. I referred my question to the BiH Ministry of Security, so possible Minister but not necessarily, and it concerns respect for the legal provisions relating to the ethnic national structure of 8 employees of state and police officers in the Security Sector, which means the Ministry of Security and 7 agencies or services that are part of the ministry. Therefore, the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on BiH Police Officers stipulates that the structures of state and police officials reflect the national structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population, somewhere according to the latest census, but somewhere according to the 1991 census, I ask, therefore, how many employees I am asking for information on the total number of employees of Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and so on. The others were classified in one table review, presentation, according to the positions of civil servants, that is, according to the rank of police officers, separately at the Ministry and, as I said, according to these individual agencies, services, from the Ministry. The reason I'm asking this question first of all is the fact that the public is well manipulated by these data, so we have objections, I'd say, on all three sides and all three corpus, that there's been a imbalance, we're less, we're threatened, and the real concrete data seems to be gone, I haven't found them. That's it, thank you. Of course, if it can be answered in an indicative manner from the Ministry and I understand these detailed data that they can't be made for this much time, so they'll be in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9196	Thank you. Do we have an answer from the Ministry? Deputy Minister, Mr Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vejzović, for asking the question and I think this is welcome for us at the Ministry of Security to ask... one such representative question that certain speculations, which are present, are deleted. So, given the complexity and demand and structure of the Ministry of Security and the Law Implementation Agency, which are part of the Ministry of Security, today we cannot provide accurate and precise data, but very quickly, means, you will have, as far as possible until the next session, for all agencies that are part of the Ministry of Security, including the Ministry of Security, means a clear and precise composition by the national structure and positions as you have in your request here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9198	Thank you. gospoċo Vajzović, would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9199	Thank you very much, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9200	Thank you. The next question is asked by Ambassador Predrag Kožul. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9201	Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. My question is, just to be clear, addressed to the Ministry and the Minister of Civil Affairs. The Council of Ministers was only here under the heading of my inquiry as a roof house and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The question, at least I don't see that minister, if I don't get an answer, I'm going to ask the question like other colleagues as a rhetorical question to all of us, the question is – There is no possibility in Tuzla County that children of Croatian nationality are studying their native Croatian language. As a result, children, whose parents insist on it, travel some 40 km to the Catholic School Centre in Tuzla or enroll in schools in Brcko District where they have such a possibility. Since it is children's rights – What solution does the Ministry offer for this issue that is increasingly emerging in the study of all three official languages of the constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what are the competent institutions doing? My brief clarification further. According to my data, 1,736 primary students of Croatian nationality are in Tuzlan County. About 400 of these children are attended by the Catholic school centre and one part of the children from Srebrenica municipality, from some settlements of the Srebrenica municipality, travel to Brcko District. And about these children, in a way, are privileged in a way that they can study their native language. Even though the parents of these children are not privileged because such practice requires additional costs for those children in transport, etc., attending schools outside the district etc. This is not an exclusive privilege or problem only of Croatian children in Tuzlan County. The public is far more familiar with some other cases and I am quite sure that all the constituent nations, or children, have... in Bosnia and Herzegovina such problems. Since we have, despite knowing that this is in the jurisdiction of the county, of education..., through the Framework Law we have usurped and..., I also refer this issue to the Ministry, or the Minister of Civil Affairs, because I think it is important. A colleague, Lovrinović, tried to offer a solution to this problem through a legal solution in one of the previous sessions, but was welcomed here in the way he was welcomed, but I do not see any other solution. I think it's very important to offer a solution to this problem, because, I say, it's about the right of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9202	Thank you. Do we have an answer from the Department of Civil Affairs? We have, Deputy Minister, Mr Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9203	Chairman, honourable MPs. Allow me to give the honourable MP Kožul an answer in front of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. At first I will... that this is only part of the answer and a complete response in writing will be obtained after our communication with the Tuzla Canton Resorship Ministry. In fact, the law at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of education guarantees every child the right to equal access and participation in appropriate education and education and enjoyment, and to enjoy equal treatment, it is quite clear, without discrimination, on any basis and no law contains discriminatory provisions. The problem is therefore not the law that we have 10 and the laws that we have passed, but the fact that they have not yet been established, there are simply no mechanisms that guarantee full implementation of the legal provisions. The structure of the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the competences in the field of education are well known to all of us, both vertically and horizontally. The original competence in the area of education is under the current constitution and law of the country at the level of Republika Srpska entities, 10 cantons and the Federation, and Brcko District. This fragmentation combines and complicates the process of the necessary coordination of the education sector. The additional problem is also the difficult coordination of the BiH Federation itself, as you know. In view of the limited competences of the Ministry of Civil Affairs which has a co-ordinated role in these affairs... and acts through the Conference of Education Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina and constantly at these conferences and meetings of Education Ministers points to and calls for, the competent educational authorities, to meet the obligations under the international commitments undertaken in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the Constitution... definitions, legal solutions and strategic commitment. [[You don't understand.]] The key to the solution to this issue, which is basically..., is the consistent implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which as official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina knows the language of the Bosniak, the language of the Serb and the language of the Croatian people, the Framework Law on Basic and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all laws at lower levels of the authorities that advocate the right to education without discrimination on any basis. Over all of these, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has no jurisdiction and it remains only for us at the Ministry of Civil Affairs to appeal to the Conference of Education Ministers and competent educational authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to address this very important problem at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the interests of children and young people. The asked question, as I said at the outset, concerns Tuzla Canton, the Resorient Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Tuzla Canton, and we will ask the said Ministry for an opinion, and prepare the answer for the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9204	Thank you. Mr. Kožul, comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9205	Well, here, I've got an indicative response that makes it difficult to pollemize or conduct a dialogue. I'm glad the Ministry is a conscious problem, but that's not enough. When you are aware of the problem, the problem should also be solved, and the problem can be resolved through an amendment to the legislation, and that is why I wanted to ask this question. And that question goes in that direction, that the problem that is acute, the problem that exists, the competent institutions try to solve. Here, I expect this broader answer in which the competent Cantonal Ministry will include itself as, here, again, I say again, I could conduct a dialogue with the really competent about education and hope that this answer will include some solution to the acute problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9206	Thank you. 11 question, MP Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9207	Thank you for presidencies in the role of chairman. I also welcome the second deputy, all colleagues, colleagues and a very small part of the Council of Ministers present. And at the very beginning, I must say, the Council of Ministers didn't last very long. After the first few sessions, where we have had quality co-operation and where we, both as MPs and the public, were able to get an answer, we are in a position to today, with due respect to the deputy ministers, practically have no one to answer. And in that sense, my colleague Bosić, I support what you said and your intention to take this situation seriously as a College. As the Council of Ministers today looks today at this session, it seems that the last days, i.e. representatives of institutions who, by their statements, create a false illusion of the inability to prosecute for crimes committed via the Internet. You have different statements from security agencies, regulatory agencies, and we witness daily hate speech on the Internet based on ethnic, religious and other grounds, calls for violence, murder, support for terrorism and others. I raised this issue in January and the question went to the Ministry of Justice and I received an answer from them that may later in a comment answer and say. I am interested at this point and I think we all get information from the Ministry of Security – How long have we come by implementing the Additional Protocol of the Convention on Cybercrime, which we as a state, have we long signed and owed according to this to improve our legislation? What is the capacity and number of cases processed and related to these acts? What is the cooperation of security agencies, and at all in this area of what is being done, given that the greatest propaganda of all time, and when it comes to terrorism and communication, is happening on the Internet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9208	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Mr Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9209	Thank you very much for asking, I think the topic is very current today. We received this issue on 23rd, yesterday, at the Ministry, but since, on this all said by the esteemed representative Magazinović, the problem of criminal acts that appear to be through the Internet is focus and the Ministry of Security and Law Implementation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the capacities we have. Here, so I also want to inform you that we are working on implementing an additional protocol. And what's a big problem when it comes to this kind of crime that seems online, means hate speech, violent extremism, supporting terrorist content and Internet-based activities, is a big problem for us human resources, given that this area needs experts in the field of information. And what we have in the agencies and in the Ministry of Security, the continuing problem is, the constant demand for this profile of people on the labour market and the wages that we are able to pay to those experts at the Ministry and agencies. Very quickly those who reach those positions leave those positions and positions remain vacant. 12 So this is the telegraphical detailed information, so to this question of yours we would like to send you in writing, here, given the complexity of the questions that are asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9210	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Magazinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9211	Thank you. The Deputy Minister says this is an ongoing topic today. It is not current today, it is current always, and I raised this issue in January. I'm practically repeating it today because of a situation that requires this issue to be resolved. I'm not satisfied with the answer, not by its essence, not by its approach. I will forward to you the answer of the Ministry of Justice which is what it is, correct I would say, where exactly it is said in the Criminal Law and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and entities, and the Brcko District in which these crimes were defined. So the legal basis for processing exists. It is a very bad message from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly speaker, who says - we do not have the capacity. What kind of message is that? People do what you want, we can't do anything. I think this is a serious question, and I'm afraid of more serious consequences, and I'm afraid of our unhappiness. When I say ours, I mean the Council of Ministers that I personally cannot identify with. So I think it would be a good idea for the Council of Ministers to initiate, if you don't, we'll have a special session, if it has to be closed to the public, in which we will discuss in detail these things and see what we have as Parliament, if nothing in the light of the adoption of the Budget, we can make this area advance, so that tomorrow, when something happens, we don't call an extraordinary session like this, here we are today. We'll see when we adopt the agenda there'll be an initiative to discuss what happened a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9212	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9213	Thank you. I'll go first with an explanation for the background. So, as early as May, I asked the Minister of Justice a parliamentary question, in which I asked for an answer – which activities were taken towards ratification of amendments by Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which the amendments were adopted at the Kampala Review Conference. In his reply, on 25.06, the minister of justice stated that the Justice Ministry had assessed that further developments in the actions of other Member States should be taken into account, and that this was the Ministry of Justice, in the past answers to the MIP, stressed that the issue of ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute was still an open issue. Then, on 02.09., I asked the additional question and asked whether the Ministry of Justice was handling some of the guidelines or other acts of the Presidency. And in response to that additional question, 19.11. 13 have only only been informed since 9/11, so after two of my questions, they have asked the BiH presidency for guidance on foreign policy. So my oral parliamentary question is, taking into account the clear provisions of the BiH Constitution, which prescribes, among other things, the exclusive competence of the BiH Presidency on foreign policy, the presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in international organisations, and the ratification of international institutions, please answer me – why did the BiH Ministry of Justice ask for the position of the BiH Presidency on the possible launch of the procedure for the adoption and ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court only on 11/09/2015, 5 years after these amendments were adopted at the Conference in Kampala, and on the basis of what decision, conclusion or other act of the BiH Presidency, the Ministry of Justice during that five-year period assessed that the further development of the events in the context of the conduct of other Member States, i.e.e. on the basis of what decision, the conclusion or other act of the predsjednštvo of Justice in its course of Justice in the same period of the same period of justice, has been raised in the same period of justice in its past? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9214	Thank you. Minister Josip Grubeša.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9215	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you that Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified the Rome Statute by a decision on ratification in 2002. Over 7 years since the entry into force of the Statute, and in accordance with the provisions of it, an audit conference was held in Kampala in 2010 with several objectives, but the most significant was the definition of the crime of aggression. The amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in The Hague are evident through the following amendments and additions. Decision No 5 — The Contracting States have adopted amendments and amendments to Article 8. The Rome Statute, which also considers the use of a certain type of weapon to be a violation of the rights and customs applicable in armed conflicts whose significance is not international, while the use of such a weapon was considered an infringement of the rights and customs applicable in the international armed conflict. Resolution No. 6 – The States of the Parties adopted amendments and additions to the Rome Statute concerning the crime of aggression. The definition of a crime of aggression based on UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 of '74 was accepted. In the years, these are the conditions under which the International Criminal Court is responsible for the crime of aggression. The court's jurisdiction is subject to the decision of the UN Security Council, irrespective of whether it is a party to the Roman Statute or a state which is not. If there is no decision by the UN Security Council, the court shall have no jurisdiction to act for the crime of aggression if the act is committed on the territory of a State other than the party of the Roman Statute, or by a national of a state other than the party to the Rome Statute, or if the State Party has previously declared that it does not accept jurisdiction for the crime of aggression. The justice ministry has always appreciated that the ratification of amendments to the BiH Statute is still an open issue that will require appropriate analyses and discussions before making 14 concrete decisions, i.e. 139 states signed the Rome Statute and 118 states ratified the same, and only 24 ratified amendments on the crime of aggression, or 25 amendments in connection with weapons. It is certainly important to note that the BiH Ministry of Justice has no idea whether the foreign ministry has informed the BiH presidency as the only one, according to the BiH Constitution, which is relevant for the foreign policy process and for the adoption of negotiations on the conclusion of international agreements, and which has been stated by a respected representative in his question. The justice ministry can safely argue that the BiH mission to the UN called on the chairman's presidency to... which was held in September-June 2015, which indicated that this is an ideal opportunity to... deposit the instruments of ratification or sign agreements whose depositary is the UN secretary-general to whom they have also been amended to the Statute. Given the constitutional competences, the BiH Ministry of Justice underlines the need for the BiH presidency's position, which will depend on a further sequence of activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9216	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, you have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9217	Thank you. I mean, whoever has listened very carefully to my question and answer, it is clear to all of us that this is either about the disrespect of Parliament or about the targeted lack of understanding of the question, on your part, or the refusal to understand the question. My question was – why did the Ministry of Justice ask for the BiH Presidency's position on the issue of foreign policy, which you yourself acknowledge in your answers, only in 11/09/2015, and during the five-year period you took positions in your answers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and me. I asked you a question – what about these amendments, in May, you answered in 06 that your position is that you do not need it now. I asked you – on what basis you took that position, 02.09., and then you immediately invited my questions only then ask the presidency's position. I am now asking you – why have you waited 5 years and you give a history of amendments that I know of course and we should all know as MPs. That's why I'm looking for this answer in writing, which is my parliamentary right, and I'm asking you to deliver it this time in business, not 2.5 months late, as you did on my additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9218	Thank you. This ended with us asking oral questions and answers. We are moving on to the regular establishment of the agenda of today's session. As for the change of the session's agenda, I stress the following. The previous agenda has been downloaded: Point 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/15, of 15.11.2015 (first reading), because the Proposer delivered an act on the withdrawal of the proposed law from the procedure. Point 5. – Proposal for a law on working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-21/15, of 28.10.2015 (first reading), at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who asked the Council of Ministers to remove the shortcomings in the Bill's Proposal and which are mentioned in the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9219	On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I propose that the agenda of the 20th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives be complemented with the agenda item – Considering the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given the importance of this issue, we propose that this be the first item of the agenda, just beyond the minutes. I do not consider it necessary to further explain the importance and reasons of proposing this agenda. In the materials for today's session, we have also received a similar initiative signed by colleague Staša Košarac, with something, let's say, narrowly covering only one case that has happened recently, but we are prepared to agree because we believe this is an extremely important issue to which we must pay special attention today. At the beginning of the session, we had a minute of silence, among other things, because of the tragic act of terrorism that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Parliaments across Europe are discussing this issue at sessions, and our Parliament and members of our Parliament, as members of the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are informing the media of everything and trying to get information, separate precisely from the incorrect, speculation from the truth. We believe, therefore, that we must conduct a discussion and we are ready even to comply with Article 96 of Article 4, so that this part of the session may be closed to the public, because I believe it may be counterproductive to present some information, especially those showing the inability of our security agencies as we could have heard in response to the question I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9220	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9221	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9222	Wait a minute, your microphone isn't on. I'm asking the service to see what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9223	So, from the very constitution of this Parliament after the elections when you start to analyse the agenda that we have been working on here and the way that the main function of this Parliament, the 16 legislative functions, is absolutely dead, says that we are Parliament since we died. The way of interest in the work of this Parliament is so at that level and let no one be angry. The way I come up with the agenda is what's killing me. We have 74 points today, from point 3 to point 80 and some of the audit reports. That speaks absolutely of our superficial approach to important things. I think, since it's all that, the manifesto is lagging behind, that it would be good for the fourth point – the Office's review report to be a unique point, because I don't see anyone here willing to lead, except a partial, some debate, and then this session would have the 11th point of the agenda. And this is my call to everyone to get serious about Parliament. It is difficult to respond to the challenges facing this country's apropo European path if the most significant role... this Parliament. I am sorry, my fellow MPs and fellow Members, that this Parliament is increasingly seeking to take on the role of agencies, courts and prosecutors. It speaks of the emptyness of us as MPs, and to forget, we forget about the basic function, which is legislative. And that's why I suggest that these dots be sublined to be one point, point four, this is to be a point so that they don't leave today... in public that we're doing serious business. I support this initiative by my colleague Magazinović, it can be redesigned and it can be a joint initiative, which will be discussed by my colleague Košarac, and if we have the materials ready for discussion again today. Don't let us do it again today, so we're looking if the Council of Ministers is ready, whenever we ask for it, we get the answer in 60 days, in 90 days. These dangers ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina require if Parliament's work is to be interrupted to request a report from the Council of Ministers. If he's gone, that's a sign of what we're in. So I call here to seriousise Parliament's work if it has a willingness to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9224	Thank you. If I understand you're looking for a pooling of these points around the report. We have put separate points because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we will vote on uniting the debate by all points, when to the fourth point on the agenda. The next word has an MP, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9225	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9226	Replica, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9227	The Honorable Chairman. Since this is an official session of the House of Representatives, we need to keep an eye on the terms we use at the House of Representatives' sessions. I wouldn't want this in the record without any reaction. In fact, counterpart Špirić literally said this Parliament was dying, a quote was completed. Parliament can be inert, it can be inactive and probably that... it has the elements to evaluate it as such, but it can never be Parliament in dying. The BiH Parliament has been legally elected, some others will be elected, but there is no, therefore, a dying parliament of BiH. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9228	Thank you. Well, I am surprised that Mr Špirić advocates strengthening the role of the BiH Parliament. The next one's an MP for Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9229	Thank you, Chairman. Members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I, using the business opportunity, asked the College of Ministers yesterday, later and from the Extended College to include the agenda item – Information from the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack on members of the BiH Armed Forces on 18 November 2015. I have to admit, in my opinion, I didn't get an adequate answer why it couldn't be in the session. And that's something I'm basically worried about. Namely, I received information that the College has no accurate information on whether the Council of Ministers has such material. I think it's worrying for all the well-intentioned people in this country that the Council of Ministers has no material or that this item of the agenda cannot be at today's session because there is no Minister of Security present. I think, no matter what, the minister is absent or there is no accurate information that Parliament should discuss a terrorist attack in this country that was on November 18th. This morning we received information from information funds that there is a tendency that a similar act took place in the Navidovices last night. I want to remind all of us that there was a terrorist act in Zvornik in April of the month, so we had Rajlovac, so here we are supposed to have the Zavidović, without absolutely Parliament discussing or having complete information. I will agree with Mr. Magazinović that we will receive a description of the events in Rajlovec through information funds. I am not inclined to discuss the description of the event, I am asking that we in Parliament fully approach this problem, all together. A bad message from the authorities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that we do not have adequate material at today's session. It's been six days, I've been assured it'll be on the next one scheduled for 10th, it'll be another 15 days. Is there any strength in Parliament, is there any strength in the Council of Ministers to discuss these issues? Do we know whether Parliament's conclusions were implemented on the basis of the events in Zvornik? Has anyone been arrested? Are the inspirers, the financiers, the employers arrested? Does the Parliament of this country know that? Do we know what the BiH Prosecutor's Office is doing? With this inaction, Bosnia and Herzegovina's institution, first of all, sends a message to the inspirers, but also sends messages to the citizens. And that's why it's our legitimate right to ask that this item of the agenda be today and we won't give it up. We think it's time for this to be discussed here in Parliament. Not on some initiatives, some future legal solution, there are enough legal solutions that can be applied in this country. Why aren't the police agencies using them? What are our personnel solutions in these institutions and a number of other issues? I want Parliament to make clear on this issue, on this initiative, that is, our request that this item of the agenda be held today and that this Parliament discusses it. I will read again as I instructed – Information from the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack against members of the Armed Forces on 18 November 2015. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9230	Thank you. So, we received an initiative yesterday sent to the Kolegijum by Members of Staša Košarac and according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not included in today's session, regardless of how we all know that the situation in that field is something we should really consider and get information as soon as possible. In line with the agreement with the College and the Expansive College, I contacted the Ministry of Security and received information that Deputy Minister Krešić can give oral information about this event, and I realized that information from the Council of Ministers does not exist at this time as information from the Council of Ministers. If you want to put this item on the agenda, I suggest that it be the first next point, and then that would be within what we can hear orally from Deputy Minister Krešić. The second option is to wait for information, really information from the Council of Ministers, as it says here, and then to have a discussion at the House of Representatives at the next session, according to such information. So, my suggestion is to plead as proposings, so here we have two similar proposals, we have a proposal from Mr. Magazinović and Mr. Košarac about similar things. So, we don't mind having a debate, but I'm warning you and informing you about the limitations of that debate at this point. Who answered? Here, before that, before we continue to discuss this, we have a correction of the wrong quote from Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9231	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry the technique was a little late, it was about previous discussions. So I supported Mr. Magazinović's initiative. God Bog we're just termologically different here. It is not a matter of whether it is a Parliament that does not comply with its basic law as provided for in its function or whether my paradigm Parliament dies away. If this Parliament fails to carry out its basic legislative function, if a few laws are discussed or adopted within 8 months, if this Parliament is unable to force the executive authority to produce legal solutions, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of this country, something is wrong, call whatever you want. So it wasn't my goal to awaken someone's feelings for the state or in the opposite sense. No, I am for the maximum effect of this Parliament in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country. No one should be afraid of that activism that I call for, but if the parliamentary majority doesn't want it to tell us. So I am on that background and I say it in public. Why would someone fear my wish for Parliament to work in accordance with the Constitution and with the law... the opposition. And I said at first that we would be a constructive opposition to this government. And I just wouldn't want it to get a curved dimension. You tell me if I'm wrong. And I am sorry that this House is increasingly like agencies and not Parliament. So, I'm sorry. Let's do it... to make it different, I invite you to do it. You won't, you won't, okay, you have most, but I think the judges exist, they're citizens of this country. Thank you very much. And I didn't mean to replicate at all and I'm sorry if this... hurt anyone, I mean right now. But the main thing is that we are manifesting ourselves in every phenomenon, every process in this country, and the essence is lagging behind. And when we are not worth these terms, and when we understand the essence of the message, and not to say, well, this one is fighting for the death of 19 Parliaments. No, he's in this situation thanks to both you and me. ... Eh, that answer interests me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9232	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, although I didn't realize what was the correction of the wrong quote. We have a correction to the wrong quote now by Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9233	It's not the chairman of the wrong allegation, it's the attempt to agree on what you suggested. So, like you in the College, like all fellow MPs, we're all surprised that at this point we don't actually have official information from the Council of Ministers on the subject we're interested in. There's no minister, but there's a deputy, there's a SIPA director, there's an OSA director, so if this is a state that works, it doesn't take us 15 days to make the information that Parliament is going to talk about. I repeat once again and suggest to the College that whenever it is, it is not bad to think about Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Because I'm afraid a good intention to discuss a very important topic can send a very bad message and even encourage those who have no intention of stopping at all. So we don't have much choice here. The Council of Ministers is not ready to discuss this today. If the 10th will have comprehensive information on the state of security in BiH, not only about this latest terrorist act, we are prepared to wait 10. I mean, what we can do now, share with ourselves the information we got from the tower or read in the media. But give it here and you as a College try to put a little pressure on the Council of Ministers to make it very seriously prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9234	Thank you. Mr. Košarac, such a statement on the proposal. /Shortly interrupted video/ What's going on with the technique?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9236	As far as I understand the Council of Ministers or no information on the terrorist attack in Rajlovac or not having discussed it, we have witnessed through means of public information that emergency meetings of the Council of Ministers have been convened. My people, we're sending an ugly message again. The ruling structure at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina again sends an ugly message. The Ministry of Security did not send any information to the Defence Commission either. What we are talking about, dear people, is that on the basis of oral information, we Mektić concluding something, or on the basis of the oral information of Deputy Minister. So who's playing with who here? This is the defeat of the ruling structure, the Honorable Chairman, here at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we do not have 20 prepared information from the Council of Ministers today on the terrorist attack in Rajlovac. I appreciate the civility act of honoring my people for a minute of silence, but it's not enough in this country. I insist that the Council of Ministers delivers information to the meeting that there are representatives of agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Prosecutor's Office and that we see people, so this is not how we can do it. An ugly message, you who rule at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you send citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I can... say, disturbing messages from the inspirers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9237	Thank you. So, to repeat, Deputy Minister Krešić is ready to give oral information on these events, and you as promoters have pleaded that you are looking for a report from the Council of Ministers and that it is not enough for you, if I, in principle, withdraw these demands, we do not vote on these demands, so we do not vote on these demands and will be included by automation at the next session of the House of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9238	Chairman. We have a situation that was a terrorist act in Rylovac, 18. We have,... and the structure of the government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has no answer. We believe the Council of Ministers must come to Parliament with information. What kind of country do we live in? Is the Council of Ministers working today? We take a break, let them sublime the information of the Ministry of Security, let the Council of Ministers decide whether the Council of Ministers works today? Do we have the Council of Ministers today? My men, take a break, let the Council of Ministers be determined according to the Ministry of Security's information, give it here and we'll discuss all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9239	So you're not giving up your proposal to be a part of the agenda today, and that's what we're going to vote on? It's okay. Next, we have an MP, Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9240	First we have, the chairman, two different initiatives. The Košarac initiative refers to the latest event. The SDP Club initiative is much wider than that. I wouldn't simplify it the way you said we were giving up. So we're not giving up, here, let it be today, but you told us that we can't have it today, especially when it comes to considering the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we can't even get that kind of information orally. So I'm trying to separate. I don't mind, and I think I can speak for my clubmates, so we can hear oral information today about the latest events, which I believe the Deputy Minister can give. But we certainly remain in the presence of a session of 10th to have one comprehensive information, and I agree with my colleague, Košarac, with the presence of a representative, or head of security agencies and the Ministry, and to hold a debate, especially in the light of the upcoming budget, people. Here's the information we heard that they don't have the capacity because they don't have people, because they can't pay for them. So let us as Parliament 21 provide these resources so that the Ministry of Security, or agencies can do their job. So we should do it before we adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9241	All right. We have Zaim Backović, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9242	Given both complementarity and completely different interpretation, I will support both of them on the agenda. We obviously ignore the creation of an atmosphere here in the country, and then in our environment, in Europe, general uncertainty and creating the impression of the uncertainty of exit. We now have a situation where children will never go out again in the city where I live. Is it possible that we can't get information here about what it's all about, and then the information the public is going to get that we know where this is going? This creates a very dreary and difficult atmosphere. This creates something that can implicate very negative currents and has great consequences, that what's not even a touching point with something called terrorism we're making terrorism and so on. We need to talk about this. This isn't a game, this is serious stuff, people's lives are at stake. I told you, the kids won't go out. Do you know that? Do you know that children are grouping? Do you, agencies, have that under control? Did you know that children are starting to self-organize? We all keep our mouths shut about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9243	Mr. Backović, you're having an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9244	I'm not having an argument, I'm just...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9245	If there's a point to the agenda then... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9246	I'm replicating all those who have reason to say no, but we're going to postpone, so that something else happens in my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9247	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9248	Here I am really trying to see how I'm going to vote, or decide how I'm going to vote on some of these proposals. Here, we have a case of colleagues from Košarac who would be happy to support, so today we are voting for the first item of the agenda to be – a report by the Council of Ministers on this case, that is, a terrorist act that took place in Rajlovac. When we say that today, and we don't have information from the Council of Ministers, who there is no one to call today, because there is no deputy or chairman, for the right reasons I know, does that mean that we will wait with the second item of the agenda until the Council of Ministers meets? I don't understand the insistence of 22 at all costs to discuss it today and we don't have any material. If the goal is to accuse the majority and the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not a problem, here I am accusing her, and there will be no less terrorism because I have accused her and my colleague Košarac. He won't be here anymore because the two of us accused him or didn't charge him. People, let's be serious here, so if we can discuss something, let's discuss it. I'm here to discuss these cases, I'm here to discuss security, because I'm here to have material that would be a serious debate, not to approach serious debate in an unserious way and... disabling such a serious topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9249	Deputy Chairman Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9250	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there are any conflicting opinions based on what we've heard today, as far as this agenda is concerned. I think we should take what we can at this point as Parliament, take and what we have when these proposals are at stake. We have therefore, Parliament should receive information about the terrorist attack on soldiers, where two soldiers of the BiH Army were killed, Parliament should discuss the state of security. So this is a very serious situation and I think that this kind of debate should be seriously prepared. The Council of Ministers, as far as I know, held an extraordinary session and discussed this and during the night, when the attack took place, they met. I propose, since today the Deputy Minister has said that he can give Parliament oral information about what he can speak about this event, that this be the point of the agenda, so the information of the Ministry of Security, the Deputy Minister, so what we can have at this moment, to hear this information about this event, about this terrorist attack, and then to reach a conclusion after that, or to ask the Council of Ministers for the next session to provide serious information on the state of security with a special consideration, here at this event and on these events, to call and chair the Council of Ministers, and all ministers, and the directors of all agencies dealing with security issues, and then to seriously bring debate in this Parliament on this subject. I think this is the way out of this situation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9251	Thank you. So, Mr. Džaferović, you are proposing to include the agenda item – Information on the terrorist act of killing two members of the Armed Forces of BiH, is that, if I understand correctly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Džaferović is proposing again now, so we now have three proposals, unless you agree on how to get out of this one-proposed situation. Because as far as I understand it, no one escapes to put that point on top and to do what can be done at this 23th moment, and these are the conclusions that will sort of go towards both agencies and the Council of Ministers. So let's move on, MP Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9253	Thank you. Of course, since I have no business opportunity to intervene as I think I am, here I have used myself in this way with a desire to say, of course not wanting to reduce the general danger we face in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not a single event can be removed from the context but, in general, one serious situation must be seriously considered, and I suggest, at the same time, that before the meeting of the 10th, and this may mean from the moment when, as soon as possible, the Council of Ministers' information is provided to us, that an emergency session will be held on its agenda, which will only be one point where, in addition to the Council of Ministers' views, and our views that will be binding on the Council of Ministers, we make conclusions on the adequate situation with which we are present and with which we are currently living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A serious security situation has been seriously violated. But here, I don't think we'd take advantage of such an unprepared session for something that might have gone some other way, I suggest that as soon as possible, and sooner or later on December 10th, an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives at which we might discuss what we're all discussing here right now, where we would really be prepared and where we could make adequate conclusions in that sense. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9254	Thank you. Please stick to the agenda, let's not discuss it now as if we're in discussion at that point. Ambassador Staša Košarac, re-correcting the wrong allegations. I don't know if there's any limit in the number?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9255	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9257	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to remind us all that when there was a terrorist attack in Zvornik here in Parliament, it wasn't a debate on information from the Ministry of Security, it was information from the Council of Ministers. You'll agree with me that way. We want to produce today that the Deputy Minister in oral form presents us with this image of the event. What arches we have in the House of Representatives. We're looking for information from the Council of Ministers. Well, it's absurd for my people, six days have passed, the Council of Ministers has not discussed it, and we have no information about it. I propose that you support our initiative to include the agenda item today – Information from the Council of Ministers, interrupt the session, no more things in Bosnia and Herzegovina today than the matter of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that when we get the material of 24 Councils of Ministers, we schedule a follow-up and continue to work. Everything else we do is make a general joke, send bad messages. We cannot discuss one event on the basis of information from the Ministry, and on the basis of the same terrorist act, we can discuss oral information from the Deputy Minister. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9258	So, just a minute, please, Mr. Košarac, since I gave you my word and you weren't registered you had no right to this discussion either, but no problem, no, no, it's fine, just to tell you that's the situation. It's not a problem, we need to clarify, and now it's clearer for everyone, I think your initiative based on this last one is clear, and you said yourself that we should interrupt the session until we get a report from the Council, to put an end to the meeting, and to end the session until the Council of Ministers' report. Just to remind you that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is on an official trip to China, that the Minister of Security is on an official trip to Athens, as far as I know and clearly doubt that it can be organised at this time. All right, let's move on. So, correcting the wrong allegations, MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9259	... that's what it says on the taster, and I want to, therefore, discuss the agenda because it's a debate on the agenda. I would like to say very clearly that the security issue is not a secure issue of position and opposition, but a question that is of interest to all citizens in this country. I would remind you that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is not present at this session today, has publicly said that the attack on the Armed Forces of BiH is an attack on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, it's a very serious qualification. Bosnia and Herzegovina is certainly not a powerful country such as France, but certainly it has mechanisms to take action to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens. So I must say that there is no need today to complicate this debate on the agenda, we have one proposal from Mr. Košarac, so today to get the information, as far as possible, regarding this terrorist attack, and the second proposal is by the SDP Club, which was presented by colleague Magazinović, to get one full piece of information in which, among other things, there will be a reference to this terrorist act. I'd remind us so, today is November 24th, we're talking about a session to be held on December 10th. If this is indeed what our officials say, an attack on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think the attack on the BiH Armed Forces is an attack on the state, why do we have to wait from 24 November to 10 December? We have the opportunity to schedule a special session in two days, and in three days, etc., since the situation obviously requires increased activity and this legislative authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9260	Thank you. We just didn't seem to understand what Mr. Košarac said the same way. So he does not accept that the oral report of the Deputy Minister is now accepted as the rest of the debate, but is requesting a report from the Council of Ministers. Therefore, that is not the point, Mr. Košarac clearly said, which is the procedure if they would accept their agenda. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9261	Interrupt session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9262	Yes, that would mean, until a report by the Council of Ministers was received, that the session would be interrupted. All right, let's move on. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9263	Thank you very much. I would just like to correct the guilty allegations of the deputy chairman who said in his debate that it was the murder of two members of the BiH Army. This is about the murder of two members of the Armed Forces of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9264	Next, correction of the wrong allegations, MP Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9265	I thank the chairman. I think the more correction to the wrong direction that the debate on such an important issue has taken place. Indeed, we have pointed out on many occasions that we will never be an opposition to the state of security, and I call on all who are the opposition potential, etc., not to act as an opposition to this issue. It really does not apply to any one person, to any party, but to all of us. So, the SBB Club, and myself, we don't mind the Deputy Security Minister offering information today, but I do realize that this is going in some direction. I'd like to offer one compromise solution that, I think, will bring all of this back in the right direction. So, to include the item of the agenda under the heading – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, and to adopt a conclusion as part of that point – the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expressed its condolences to the families of BiH Armed Forces killed in a terrorist attack in Rajlovac, asking the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver information to this House on this terrorist act and on the overall state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible and by 10/12/2015 at the latest. There will remain an opportunity for an extraordinary session, there will be an opportunity to discuss it, i.e. to offer that information at regular session 10.12. But again, I say we put this back in the right direction, to adopt a point, i.e. to add the agenda point immediately after this titled - Information on the state of security in BiH on the terrorist attack in Rajlovac and to adopt this conclusion as part of this point, where we will, above all, express our condolences to the families of the dead soldiers of the Armed Forces of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9266	Thank you. I think it's a constructive suggestion, please just deliver it to me in writing. This looks like something we could get out of this situation right now. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9267	We're trying to get to some kind of solution and get out of this where we met. I remind you again what our initiative is. She says -- Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack on members of the Armed Forces since 18 November. The deputy minister can speak his mind on something, but he cannot assume it is the opinion of the Minister of Security, and at least he can assume it is the Council of Ministers' opinion. So, to discuss it and not keep in mind what I said is losing purpose. So, there may be something happening right now about the analysis of that condition, that event. Don't discuss anything until we get a complete picture. And the complete picture will be when you, who bring all this tomorrow to us, and the BiH Parliament would manifest this way that this is the most significant event at this moment and is not one of these points of the agenda that comes more significant than this. There is no more significant item on the agenda than this one. So, what a message, not only to the public, but to the Council of Ministers. It's the most difficult job you have to do towards Parliament. I don't know why it's so problematic. We'll interrupt the session, these audit reports, we've never seen enough attention before, and this time we'll get through them the same way. But this point is so important that, I mean, it takes our seriousness and we've already turned this all into a wrinkle. Another issue related to the SDP Club's idea, i.e. the SDP initiative, the Security Assessment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you that the Ministry of Security delivers to Parliament, that is, its competent parliamentary defence and security committee once a year information on the state of security. And she's been troublesome every time in all the saviours. Most often, we did not adopt it because we were dissatisfied with just showing rough statistics, not a single correct or high-quality solution to what, regarding the Security Sector. So this can't be done quickly and we will because we need all the cantons, entities, all the agencies to deliver, and that's making up some dubious material called safety information. So this first proposal by Staša Košarac is a proposal that we can send this event that is important to us at this point, and the second one is declared an important priority even if we do it at 30.09.(?) to ask for that condition to be with 30.09.(?) Because it's the condition we have. Maybe it could move, and maybe in that case the agencies could do what we're looking for. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9268	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Diana Zelenika.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9269	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Here, just a little bit. We all agreed that it was necessary to consider the state of security. The way we vote today, we have more suggestions, it's still not clear, and we all agreed it was very important. In the context of my predecessors who have said that no event can be taken out of this context I believe that the attack on the Armed Forces is an attack on the state, which we have heard before, so I want to mention another daily event, means not only the one that took place on November 18th, but also the attack on General Jeleč, which happened in Salakovec, so no matter what we don't know yet and what an explosive device is and which, thank Bog, did not end with a fatal outcome. I would like to suggest here that this incident too is debated, especially with the 27th fact that the gentleman who did this, whether I may consider him a gentleman then, but my home education requires me to call him that in this House, is an OSA employee. As soon as it tells us that we have to consider this problem as early as possible and wait, in my opinion, not even that 10.12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9270	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9271	I thank the chairman. First the replica, then the discussion. We're having a dilemma at all, and I'm glad to see that there's a will here for all of us to discuss this information. And yes, there are terrible things going on in this country and I don't see what other place, if not Parliament, that will contribute to the reduction of such things and the fight against terrorism. What I see here today, there's only one dilemma, whether to interrupt this session and wait for information or work today. I remind you, dear colleagues, that every session costs a great deal. Whether it's more humane, we came here today, it's spent between 20,000 and 30,000 marks for this session, we can stop it from doing anything and wait until the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security with information, or we can continue this session, find a compromise, and it seems to me that the proposal of a respected colleague of Arnaut is on the trail of this compromise, and show some humanity. Well, isn't it better if that money, which we're going to spend on walking and not holding a session, to families of these victims of terrorism, instead of making political plays here? And I'm sorry that there are political shows here on such a tragedy in this country. I call on everyone, but indeed all, to put the fight against terrorism here first, because just now someone mentions the death of Parliament, with regret to the constants, and then wants to bury it, that there is no sitting. I pray indeed and appeal to all my colleagues not to play like this, but this is still too serious a subject and too much of a problem in this country to be a topic of political games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9272	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9273	Mr. Chairman. I can accept in part that the session costs a lot, but for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for her future, the lives of every man and every citizen of hers are much more important. In that sense, our proposal is also aimed at getting an answer. We also understand the situation where we are currently in place that we do not have information from the Council of Ministers, and I think it would be unserious to discuss it without information adopted on the Council of Ministers and Representatives of all, therefore, agencies. For us, it could be a compromise solution, unless our proposal is now given to the majority to be placed in the agenda and to end this session, the proposal of a respected colleague Arnaut, but that the deadline be 30 November. So, to be considered at a special session with a special agenda point – Information on the terrorist attack and the murder of two members of the 28 Armed Forces, to come up with a solution that would be acceptable. December 10th is an unacceptable term in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9274	All right, so it might be a suggestion of your conclusion in the debate on that agenda point, if adopted, if you've listened to me. So what you said could be a suggestion of your conclusion based on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9275	I'm sorry, if it would have been unacceptable for us to have the final date on December 10th already on November 30th, to... the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9276	So, next MP Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9277	Dear Chairman, Deputy, I welcome all colleagues and present in the hall. I waited my turn to speak, so I couldn't take it. I had to pick up the line. So obviously there are two proposals here for some sort of solution to this agenda point. I will just say the following, so it is unacceptable for us to discuss today only the terrorist act and the murder of two members of the Armed Forces in Rajlovac, without talking about the attack on General Jeleč, so the commander of the BiH Armed Forces General. And we'll accept that, and we're closest to the solution offered by a colleague from the SBB. Whether that's the conclusion by the 30th in the course of the debate or not, it doesn't matter. And on the other hand, the information we will seek from security in Bosnia and Herzegovina about this we are asking for it to be related, so that it shows what the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is like since '98. In the years, and then police officers were killed in Travnik, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Leutar, was killed. So give us what's going on. So, I asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office to answer these questions for three months, I beg you, colleague Majkić, so I didn't get the answer and today I wanted under that,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9278	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9279	under that point, so the comment on the answers to the questions I didn't even get the answer, that's exactly the question. What's going on in the investigation of the murder of police officers in Travnik, the murder of Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Leutar, and now these events. Give us a picture of what's going on. So that's the point of security situation. And of course, some of that might be acceptable to what the SBB gentlemen are to get that real information so we can discuss it... But if there's gonna be any information today, then we're looking for information on what happened to the attack on Mr. Jeleč. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9280	Sir, Ambassador Damir Arnaut. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the trail of what Mr. Prodanović said on November 30th, you see we didn't, here's a proposal for my conclusion – as soon as possible and no later than 10.12. So it's perfectly acceptable for us and for us to be 30.11. I'd just like it to be one consensus here without now starting a positional and opposition debate over the date. If we have a consensus that it's 30.11. Me and Club SBB we fully support it, so as soon as possible and at the latest, to change this conclusion of mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9282	Okay, but that's, uh, during the debate, there's gonna be a proposal and it's gonna be voted on. Okay. Thank you. Mirsad Mešić, MP, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9283	Mr. Chairman. Trying to solve this situation would be next. The SDP club supports the initiative of all those asking for the session to be the 30th and I think it would be a compromise solution and I think it would show our responsibility by organising an extraordinary session on such important issues that rock Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9284	Thank you. Discussion, Aleksandra Pandurević, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9285	I thank the chairman. Well, I guess we'll find some compromise solution to this point and that'll be the first point of the agenda. Therefore, I propose a regular number, so before the report, this would be the 5th item of the agenda, to consider the information on human rights violations and freedoms, and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići. Namely, pursuant to Article 2(2). The BiH Constitution states that the rights and freedoms provided for by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, please chairing to allow me to speak, I think,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9286	Now, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9287	provided for by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms and its Protocols directly apply in Bosnia and Herzegovina and have priority over all other laws, which is the basis for the parliamentary assembly's competence to consider this point. 30 I also prepared the material that says that the owner of this company illegally organized and pressured the workers for a polygraph test. Polygraphic testing was performed by an unauthorized person. The girl who fell for that polygraph test was imprisoned, abused, strangled by the company's owners. She was threatened and recalled that she should not be advertised in media information because she is on sick leave. I must also say that, in the earlier period, the owner of Boksit“ Milići obliged his workers to read four of his books during their vacation, so after their vacation, he organized a test to see if they had read his books. There are other materials here that I really cannot say in my changed form by estimating the dignity of this Parliament, which speak of a really low and primitive level at which the owner of Boksit“ Milići, landed in his account with insubordination workers. My intention is not to judge anyone here, but to commit from this information the institutions of this country, in this case the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to go nicely to "Boksit“ Milići and to the institutions whether there are human rights violations there, whether there are mobbing there, and elsewhere we will ask the interior minister to investigate what kind of industrial or parapolitan Mr. Dukić has in Milic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9288	Thank you. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9289	Thank you very much. Here, finally the tenacity is worth it. I watch my colleagues abuse the replica table without having a discussion. I will therefore agree with those who feel that there is nothing more than security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is obvious that the situation is alarming and threatens to escalate. If we are going to pay our respects to every session with a minute of silence to those who have possibly lost their lives, or to resist, or to express our condolences, then I think it is our own fault that we brought this Parliament into such a situation. Why am I saying this? At its emergency session and extraordinary, as I followed from the media, the Council of Ministers discussed the information on this case that took place in Rajlovac. So it's unacceptable that we don't have at least that information on the benches today, it's first, initial, shura, etc., but we should have it on the bench today. And why we don't have it ourselves, because we brought this Parliament into such a relationship with the Council of Ministers. We unfortunately, here you see we have eight. Foreign ministers, we have a defence minister, a minister of transport and communication who today found fit to attend Parliament's session. Why is it so we're to blame ourselves, here's no one to answer any questions. Therefore, I will agree with those who seek either an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives or, here's the first item of the agenda, that's the most pressing question. Because, you know, it happened in Rajlovac, it happened in Konjic, here last night it happened in the Navidovics, tomorrow maybe Bog knows where. And I think the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina must have the answer to this question. And no matter what we think of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions, but it is obvious that the issue of security is also in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I support every form to be considered, to draw conclusions and to assign the institutions to closely monitor the security situation and, of course, to warn potentially unloved events, 31 that human beings mean strengthening them, to strengthen them materially-technically, but that is up to us, not to anyone else. And the second question, I propose that the point there is 87th far, it seems to me, an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the borders is removed from the agenda for reasons which, I do not think, are sufficiently well learned the chances and possibilities of this adoption, i.e. the adoption of this border agreement, but are also not sufficiently studied and the consequences that would occur either by not adopting or adopting this border agreement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9290	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the agenda. Which point is, just a little bit, the 87th point is the Agreement...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9291	Aleksandra's looking for something for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9292	What, I mean... so you have to, you have to be reported to turn the microphone on. That's the problem why the technique doesn't work. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9293	Just before the agenda statement. Since we have received two written proposals for this point, it is the SDP and the Club of the SBB, this compromise solution, in order to agree and define the exact point and attitudes, a 10 minute break and while copying the remaining material before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9294	For your proposal. To copy the material for your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9295	Right, and so we can match these agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9296	Break 10 minutes. So before the vote on proposals, I have an announcement that SDP proposal by Saša Magazinvić will be modified or withdrawn. Mr. Magazinović, if you will, you must apply only. Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9298	Thank you. Here, in this break, we made consultations and came up with a proposal that is well based on what counterpart Šefik Džaferović said, as an initiative on paper, put Damir Arnaut, with the following changes in relation to the Arnaut formulation. So the headline of the agenda would be – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a special aspect of the terrorist attack in Rajlovac. So that's the change, and the deadline, which was originally announced on December 10th, changes according to the discussion that was held here at the House of Representatives on November 30th. The rest of the text remains the same, and as far as the SDP is concerned, there is no need to plead separately on our initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9299	Sir, Ambassador Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9300	Mr. Chairman. So, this proposal by Mr Magazinović regarding this compromise proposal, which I was invited to propose by the debate going in various directions, is acceptable. So, to propose a point, the headline of the agenda item will be the Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a special emphasis on the terrorist attack in Rajlovac. That proposal is acceptable. I, as the promoter of this initiative, I accept this item of the agenda, and I have already accepted the proposal of a respected colleague of Prodanović to stand in place of 30.11.2015 instead of 10.12.2015, the rest of the text of my proposal for a conclusion remains unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9301	Thank you. So, another member of the Košarac stays with him, is that right, the proposal? Here, we still have Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, and I'm closing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9302	Everything, Mr. Chairman, is acceptable to me, only unacceptable to me, so neither can I compare it now, means the murders of two members of the Armed Forces and the attack on General Jeleč. So, how to put it in the title of the point now, does therefore, with special reference to the murder of members of the Armed Forces in Rajlovac and the attack on General Jeleč in the Salakovac tunnel or.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9303	Look, it'll be in the debate. We've already received information that we're going to get about this segment of information.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9304	Okay, but so whether you put it in the title of point or conclusion, now I, so you can put it in the title of point. Everything else is accepted and date and everything. But I think, however, that 33 must not be ignored that it is the commander of the headquarters. However someone qualified it and the judge who talked about it, I'm not getting into it at all, but he's the commander of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9305	Well, you see, now it's a matter of gravity.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9306	Well, of course, I can't compare it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9307	Of course, here's the gentleman, so Proposer Arnaut, just to make a statement about this, would it have changed in that sense, if not then we would have voted on this original one.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9308	So with a special aspect of the murder of members of the Armed Forces in Rajlovac and the attack on General Jeleč in the Salakovac tunnel.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9309	If, Mr. Arnaut, you stay at your original, without this one we'll vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9310	Here, just so he's standing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9311	Ambassador Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9312	So we're talking about the title of the agenda. I think I was very clear when I first answered the question. My goal is to reach the general compromise of this issue, because this issue is too important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to, so since I'm proposing right now I should say if I accept what Mr. Lovrinović said or not, I'd like to give, although it's not, of course, practice in the House, but if we have the consent to do so, here I'll accept as a promoter. If there is one general agreement, there is one general compromise to accept and what Mr. Lovrinović said, it is acceptable for me to propose. But really give me a sign that there is one general agreement, not that then the results of the vote show that it does not exist. So that's my goal, compromise here on this topic. Is there one, I know it's not a practice, but give me this question we can step down a little bit from practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9313	Well, you see, I think you heard from the discussion that this is an acceptable compromise solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9314	Then I, as a promoter, accept this proposal by Mr. Lovrinović. So, the proposal for a agenda point, the title is – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and 34 Herzegovina with special reference to the terrorist attack in Rajlovac and the attack on General Jeleč, and that is the point of whether.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9315	That's enough, all right. We're going to procedure. No one's registered, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9316	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9317	But don't, if we open up a debate now after this and we start, it'll be sausages in the title. Mr. Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9318	He will not be angry with counterpart Lovrinović, but it was logical that he had a debate during this debate and could have entered into some framework proposal he proposed. So we can't confirm what we don't know. That two soldiers were killed and shot at them, that's for sure, but at the very point of the agenda to confirm that there was an attack on the general is something that neither the police nor the prosecution say at the moment. And that's why I won't vote, but I will vote for what my colleague Arnaut has suggested, of course, that the Deputy Minister of Security in his presentation touches this issue and says what he has from the Intelligence and Police report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9319	So please, this is really, here we have now reported 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So I was the one who concluded the debate, I was the one who concluded the debate, and I stepped away from it, giving a word to Ambassador Ahmetović. So I'm going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9320	Can I suggest something out of this? I mean,... it's not a questionable thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9321	Come on, let's make an exception, vice president, so let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9322	Please be nice, so there's nothing to argue about. So, the state of security with special reference to the terrorist attack in Rylovac, this as suggested by Mr. Arnaut, based on what we've all been saying here, as well as on the event of that and that day, related to General Jeleč. So it was an event and that's the point. What was there was some hardening organs and a finished story. And then we all vote for it, and there's nothing controversial about it. We want everything here as it was, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9323	Thanks for the suggestion on how to get out of this situation. We're going to vote. We're heading towards order. 35 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do you accept? All right. Here, and the proposer accepts this form. We're going to vote. Please cancel these, the debate has been closed. So this way, we go in order as the demands for a change of agenda arrived. The first request is from MP Staša Košarac, who reads – Information from the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack against members of the Armed Forces on 18 November 2015. That means they would ask for information from the Council of Ministers and wait for the session to continue until they reach the meeting. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Member of the Staša Košarac Parliament. So we don't have a general majority, no proposal from the Staša Košarac MPs has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9325	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9326	I have to read it, right? Okay. Total attendance 37 – for 9, versus 9, abstention 19. There's not a lot of them. The proposal was rejected. Let's go to the next proposal. It's a compromise proposal, if I understand the SDP has given up its proposal. We are going to propose a harmonised and agreed, modified proposal that we finally heard sounds like from deputy chairman Džaferović. So we are voting on Mr Arnaut's amended proposal and that would be the third item of the agenda, following the adoption of the minutes and comments on the issues raised. We are voting on the amended proposal by Parliamentarian Arnaut. So the result is a total of 36 – for 30, versus 1, abstentions 5. So we've adopted a change in the agenda with an addition to the third item of the agenda. We have a proposal for a Member of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević, which reads – Discussing information on human rights violations and freedoms, and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići, and this should be, according to the proposal, the fifth item of the agenda. I am voting on a proposal from Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević. Total attendance 36 – for 24, versus 5, abstentions 7. So, a proposal to change the agenda was adopted by MP Aleksandra Pandurević. We still have a proposal, what else was the suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9327	36 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9328	Mr Mehmedović suggested that the agenda item on signing the International Border Agreement with Montenegro be removed. We've received an explanation from the Professional Service that this is a mandatory item of the agenda that cannot be voted for. We will therefore not vote on the proposal because of such a situation. So I declare the agenda and ask the Professional Service to deliver me the third and fifth points of the agenda. Third point, I ask the Professional Service to formulate a third point according to what we have agreed. In order not to wait, the agenda goes like this: The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, as well as the event of 20.11.2015, related to General Ante Jeleč – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, number: 01-50-1-15-20/15, of 24.11.2015; 4. Proposal for a Law on Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08.2015. (second reading); 5. Consideration Information on the violation of human rights and freedoms and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići – Proposer: Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, No: 01-50-1-15-20/15, of 24.11.2015; 6. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Anti-Doping Control Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-915/15, of 10.07.2015; 7. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-916/15, of 10.07.2015; 8. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts for 2014, issue 01-16-1-917/15, of 10.07.2015; 9. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Public Procurement Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-918/15, of 10.07.2015; 10. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources for 2014, issue 01-16-1-919/15, of 10.07.2015; 11. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Market Oversight Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-920/15, of 10.07.2015; 12. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Insurance Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-921/15, of 10.07.2015; 13. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Police Support Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-922/15, of 10.07.2015; 14. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-923/15, of 10.07.2015; 15. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-924/15, of 10.07.2015; 16. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for the 2014 fight against corruption, issue 01-16-1-925/15, of 10.07.2015; 37 17. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment for 2014, issue 01-16-1-926/15, of 10.07.2015; 18. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-927/15 of 10.07.2015; 19. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-928/15, of 10.07.2015; 20. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-929/15, of 10.07.2015; 21. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Education and Professional Training Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-930/15, of 10.07.2015; 22. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Foreign Investments Agency for 2014 No: 01-16-1-931/15, of 10.07.2015; 23. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2014, issue 01-16-1-932/15, of 10.07.2015; 24. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the 2014 BiH Archives, issue: 01-16-1-933/15, of 10.07.2015; 25. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the Financial Audit of the Centre for Information and Recognition of Higher Education Documents for 2014, issue 01-16-1-934/15, of 10.07.2015; 26. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Mine Removal Centre in BiH for 2014, issue 01-16-1-935/15, of 10.07.2015; 27. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-936/15, of 10.07.2015; 28. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the Financial Audit of the Economic Planning Directorate for 2014, issue 01-16-1-937/15, of 10.07.2015; 29. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the European Integration Directorate for 2014, issue 01-16-1-938/15, of 10.07.2015; 30. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate for 2014, issue 01-16-1-939/15, of 10.07.2015; 31. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the State Investigation and Protection Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-940/15, of 10.07.2015; 32. Report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security for 2014, issue 01-16-1 941/15, of 10. 07.2015; 33. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Return Fund for 2014, issue 01-16-1-942/15, of 10.07.2015; 34. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Council of Ministers' General Secretariat for 2014, issue 01-16-1-943/15, of 10.07.2015; 35. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Border Police for 2014, issue 01-16-1-944/15, of 10.07.2015; 36. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ombudsman Institution for Consumer Protection in BiH for 2014, issue 01-16-1-945/15, of 10.07.2015; 37. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for 2014, issue 01-16-1-946/15, of 10.07.2015; 38.38. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the Institute for Accreditation of BiH for 2014, issue 01-16-1-947/15, of 10.07.2015; 39. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property for 2014, issue 01-16-1-948/15, of 10.07.2015; 40. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Institute for Meritrology for 2014, issue 01-16-1-949/15, of 10.07.2015; 41. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Missing Persons for 2014, issue 01-16-1-950/15, of 10.07.2015; 42. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Standardisation for 2014, issue 01-16-1-951/15, of 10.07.2015; 43. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the Unit for the implementation of the project of the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-952/15, since 10.07.2015; 44. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH concessions Commission for 2014, issue 01-16-1-953/15, of 10.07.2015; 45. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the 2014 Competition Council of BiH, issue: 01-16-1-954/15, of 10.07.2015; 46. The BiH institutions' audit office's report on the financial audit of the Srebrenica-Potocari Memorial Centre mentions the mark and the mesar for victims of the '95 genocide. for 2014, number: 01-16-1-955/15, 10.07.2015; 47. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for 2014, issue 01-16-1-956/15, of 10.07.2015; 48. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2014, issue 01-16-1-957/15, of 10.07.2015; 49. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-958/15, of 10.07.2015; 50. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Communications and Transport for 2014, issue 01-16-1-959/15, of 10.07.2015; 51. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2014, issue 01-16-1-960/15, of 10.07.2015; 52. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ministry of Justice for 2014, issue 01-16-1-961/15, of 10.07.2015; 53. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Security for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-962/15, of 10.07.2015; 54. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2014, issue 01-16-1-963/15, of 10.07.2015; 55. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2014, issue 01-16-1-964/15, of 10.07.2015; 56. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Committee of State Service for Appeal for 2014, issue 01-16-1-965/15, of 10.07.2015; 57. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-966/15, of 10.07.2015; 58. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH for 2014, issue 01-16-1-967/15, of 10.07.2015; 59. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Law Department for 2014, issue 01-16-1-968/15, of 10.07.2015; 60. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Presidency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-969/15, of 10.07.2015; 39 61. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2014, issue 01-16-1-970/15, of 10.07.2015; 62. Report of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Joint Affairs Service for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-971/15, of 10.07.2015; 63. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Harmonisation of Finance and Treasury for 2014, issue 01-16-1 972/15, of 10.07.2015; 64. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Central Election Commission for 2014, issue 01-16-1-973/15, of 10.07.2015; 65. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the Court of Justice for 2014, issue 01-16-1-974/15, dated 10.07.2015; 66. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2014, issue 01-16-1-975/15, dated 10.07.2015; 67. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Plant Health Protection Authority for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-976/15, of 10.07.2015; 68. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2014, issue 01-16-1-977/15, of 10.07.2015; 69. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development for 2014, issue 01-16-1-978/15, of 10.07.2015; 70. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the Financial Audit of BiH's 2014 Appeal Office, issue: 01-16-1-979/15, of 10.07.2015; 71. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Veterinary Office for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-980/15, of 10.07.2015; 72. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH Council of Ministers' legislation for 2014, issue 01-16-1-981/15, of 10.07.2015; 73. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Constitutional Court for 2014, issue 01-16-1-982/15, of 10.07.2015; 74. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial audit of the BiH State Aid Council for 2014, issue: 01-16-1-983/15, of 10.07.2015; 75. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2014, issue 01-16-1-984/15, of 10.07.2015; 76. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange for 2014, issue 01-16-1-998/15, of 14.07.2015; 77. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Foreign Affairs Service for 2014, issue 01-16-1-999/15, of 14.07.2015; 78. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate for 2014, issue: 01-16-1000/15, since 14.07.2015; 79. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Instituting public internal financial controls (PIFs) in BiH institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1091/15, of 03.08.2015; 80. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-50-19-1331/15, of 19.10.2015; 81. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and police officers in peace support operations from 1 January to 30 June 2015, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-03-1348/15, from 21.10.2015; 40 82. Information on the Annual Plan for Training and Exercise of Members and Units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2016, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-1412/15, of 02.11.2015; 83. Information on the problem of resolving the permanent accommodation of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption in eastern Sarajevo, the Commission's material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-50-19-370-6/15, of 06.10.2015; 84. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for Higher Education and Quality Supply, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Development Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-843-5/15, of 29.10.2015; 85. The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption, No. 01.02-50-14-468-6,3/15, of 05.11.2015; 86. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Auditor General of the BiH Institutions – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-10,1/15, of 29.10.2015; 87. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex IV of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of law and/or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No: 01,02-05-2-1305/15, of 13.10.2015; 88. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the construction of a state bridge across the Drina River with accompanying road facilities at Bratunac – Ljubovija, issue: 01,02-05-2-1384/15, of 28.10.2015; 89. Giving consent to the ratification of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-1385/15, of 28.10.2015; 90. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Improving the infrastructure of the regional basic transport network in BiH – rail transport – concluded between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-1433/15 of, 06.11.2015. So we're going to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've reached the record. Any objections? No objections. We're going to the second item of the agenda, 41 Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9331	Thank you. I have already given an introduction to this through my oral parliamentary question today, but I will specifically comment here on the additional parliamentary question delivered to me by the BiH Ministry of Justice. So my supplemental question was very specific. When my initial question – what about the amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, whether both Bosnia and Herzegovina will ratify, they replied that they believe that it is not the time and that it is their position. Then I asked in the additional question whether they had been reformed, that is, when forming that attitude, the Presidency consulted, because it was an foreign policy issue. That's what I asked 02.09. And then in this answer they say – in 9/11 we sent a request to the Presidency to be seen about this issue. So, they didn't answer me whether, directly or not, they had consulted the Bureau when formulating their position, but since they said that it was only then that they asked for the presidency's position, the indirect answer is there. 42 However, what concerns us is that both from today’s oral response and from this answer we see that this is one esquivation, so spend three pages of paper and don’t give a direct answer and then answer 16.11. So, one really unacceptable relationship, and I would ask the College to approach this with a really general principle, which is that when we set up, to insist on introducing some mechanism that at least when the oral answers are in question, to which someone has two minutes, we saw the minister of justice purposely spent two minutes this morning not giving me an answer, to specifically give me answers, and not to spend three pages of paper and two minutes on something, meaning, which is the introduction and background and not a concrete answer. So, to some mechanism, think about earing a mechanism where I'm really going to get a concrete answer to the question. Here, I'm officially saying, I'm not happy with the answer since my question came out – did you consult the Presidency before you took your position, and they didn't answer that, and the minister of justice said 9/11 we sent an inquiry to the Presidency. The only satisfaction of it all is that my two parliamentary questions forced them to study their constitutional obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9332	Thank you. A Member of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9333	I thank the chairman. At the joint session that we had, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly with the Council of Ministers – Poslanik ask the Council of Ministers answers, I asked the honourable minister of civil affairs. To this day, I have received no answer. Before that, I used my right as a member of the Joint Committee of Human Rights, participating in the Conference of Ministers of Education to delegate the same issue to the Conference, of course I did not get an answer. I am asking you as a College to direct an emergency, because this is really becoming pointless to spend all parliamentary and business opportunities and the Council of Ministers is absolutely not taking any initiative into account. The second thing, I was at the 15th session, held on July 22, 2015, proposing two conclusions, which were adopted with 24 votes from this House. At that time, it was said that the Commission, in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, was responsible for examining conflicts of interest, provided information on all members of the Board of Appeals. To this day, I have no information on whether it works, whether it took into consideration this conclusion, as I had no information until this morning, which was the second conclusion, that, that the Office for the Review of Appeals was to deliver the information that came to the Parliamentary Assembly on 26 August, and the Democratic Front was only sent this morning. And that's the case where I met the esteemed secretary yesterday, when he stopped me from telling me that my question that wasn't taken into consideration today because I was five minutes late, and I appreciate it, but that's no way to inform myself because you did it today at the beginning of the session. And the esteemed secretary told me, don't make a big deal about it at the session tomorrow. I remind the esteemed secretary that he has been chosen by us, that I respect his function and that I expect him to respect my function as well. Someone can be personally antipathic, it can be a difference in age, but home education should be the same for everyone. So, College, I absolutely ask you to talk to the Honorable Secretary that I don't need to be intercepted in some hallway, to be told that I'm making a fuss. This is the 20th session of this House, so here I am, 43, I don't know when I made a big deal about what I did, and even if I did, they have business interventions as well as the Code of Conduct that was adopted, which, whether it's taken into consideration someone's action or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9334	Thank you. I have been murdered that the College will take into consideration this statement of yours, that we will examine this case without delivering documents in time, and you, it would not be bad to talk to the College of the Secretariat to resolve it, because both the College and the Secretariat must be in office of the House of Representatives, or MPs. So we'll get out of this situation. I suggest we continue with our comments. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9335	I thank the chairman. My parliamentary question referred to the leases of business premises, from which they were rented and at what price per square. The Council of Ministers delivered a comprehensive information which I must admit I received last night, so I failed to precisely evaluate, but what I can see is that certain suspicions are definitely coming out here. It is illogical for me to say different agencies in the same building, which is here across from Parliament,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9336	Thank you. Ambassador Monika Tomić, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9337	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. 44 My question was addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm not happy with the answer and I'm going to explain it this little bit. At its 13th session of 02.07.2015, the Federation government adopted a Programme of Support for Spending, Subsidies to Private Enterprises and Entrepreneurs, an incentive for agriculture where tobacco itself is essentially... mentioned. I come from a region where tobacco is produced, and as far as I know there are no private companies and no entrepreneurs. And the automatically asked question, I don't understand, how does it mean that all these people who could be involved in tobacco production, how could they apply to all of this? I didn't get an answer and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9338	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9339	Dear Chairman, I thank you. So I'm not happy with the answer I didn't even get. Namely, last time, when there was a joint session, I calculated that the Joint College would allow me to get an answer from the D.A.'s office that I set three months ago. It's about killing the returnees in the Municipality of Travnik and the police, and from the VSTV to see what was done against the Prosecutor's Office or Prosecutor/Prosecutor who was in the process of arresting members of the HVO from the Oxygens, there is, now I don't repeat, so what they did, whether they found a factual state, whether it was a media inscription or not, that people were arrested without any valid evidence and that, therefore, so it remained that they didn't have the need or the defence to account. Well, I didn't get that answer, so thanks to us, I don't have anything to be happy about. I'm unhappy and I'm obviously going to have to do it again, and I was told it would be an emergency to get those answers back. If the emergency doesn't work anymore, so to speak up, so obviously I'm going to have to repeat these questions, whether Bog will not allow us to get an answer to this question in the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9340	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9341	So I asked the BiH Council of Ministers, among other things, how many expensive cars were purchased in the BiH presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the last 12 months, and I received a response from the BiH Council of Ministers. Of course, that answer is very interesting and I can't believe they sent such a response, which speaks only about the relationship and work of the BiH Council of Ministers. The answer to the question on the Parliamentary Assembly and on the BiH Presidency is that it is not a question relating to the Council of Ministers and that they, meaning they cannot answer that question, and we all know the practice of previous years, we all know what the Ministry of Finance is dealing with and that it is no problem to answer that question. And the question of the Council of Ministers was not answered in any way, because it seems they couldn't escape the answer, and they didn't want to show what was really the situation in relation to the issue. I think it's a total political amateurism, first of all, because if they had delivered that question, 45 would have concluded the debate today. This is how they opened up even more doubt that I too today repeat this question to the public and the media, etc., yes, they will have to answer that question, but I do not really understand why they are running away and why they are looking for a reason not to answer, when in the end and through other mechanisms, above all through the Law on Freedom of Access to Information, etc., we can get these answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9342	Thank you. We no longer have registered for comments on parliamentary issues and I am concluding the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, as well as the 20.11.2015 event concerning General Ante Jeleč – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut We have placed this item on the agenda today with modifications made with the consent of the promoter. You got the material, i.e. you only got the name of the point and the proposed conclusion within that point, i.e. The time limit for the delivery of information is now 30.11.2015 instead of 10.12.2015. And therefore, the conclusion proposed in handing over the agenda -- the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expressed condolences to the families of BiH Armed Forces killed in the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, and asked the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver information to this House by 30.11.2015 on this terrorist act and the overall state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9344	I thank the chairman. Given that I have delivered the text of the draft conclusion together with the proposal to include the item in the agenda, now formally, means, to say that this is my conclusion, that I am of course staying with him, only if I can, so – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expressed condolences to the families of the BiH Armed Forces killed in the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, and asks the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver information to this House on this terrorist act and the overall state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible and by 30.11.2015 at the latest. So, the only change compared to what was delivered is instead of 10.12.2015, it stands at 30.11.2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9345	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. I now propose that the Deputy Minister of Security give the information he is able to give now. Here you go, Mr. Krešić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9346	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, we'll finally have a chance to hear what happened when it comes to these events. I am pleased to have the opportunity today to inform you of this event, that those speculations, if they were in the media or any other rumor, are somewhere on the side. First of all, I would like to inform you that we, as the Ministry of Security, have submitted to the Joint Defence and Security Committee the Security Information of 30.06., and the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of both Houses of Parliament has made this information known, including the realization of the conclusions and of this Parliament, meaning this House and the House of People, from which certain obligations have been made to the Ministry of Security. When it comes to the terrorist event that took place, the Council of Ministers held an extraordinary session. The attack group against terrorism met the same night and analyzed what happened. A meeting of law enforcement agencies was held the same night, the representative means in the BiH Security Ministry's premises. So, when it comes to the 18.11.2015 event, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection received operational knowledge that at the sports bookshop Five Plus Street Safeta Zajka No. 233, the municipality of Novi City of Sarajevo, in the area of Rajlovac, by, at that time, the NN person had been used by firearms, which during which two members of the Armed Forces of BiH died. It was immediately introduced to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which ordered the entry into place in order to determine all relevant facts related to the event. On the same day, along with the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, several teams of police officers of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, police officers of the Anti-Terrorism and Trade Department of the ABHO Regional Office of Sarajevo, the Special Support and Crime Support Units have headed to the scene in order to determine the essential circumstances in connection with the execution of the crime. The arrival on the scene at approximately 9:15 p.m. found police officers at Canton Sarajevo's MP and the prosecutor of the Sarajevo Cantonal Prosecutor's Office, who were doing the lice shop. In a conversation with MP Commissioner Canton Sarajevo, who has, they have, they have, therefore, come to know, that the earring is to be conducted by MP Canton Sarajevo's police officers under the supervision of the cantonal prosecutor, who was originally qualified as a felony of murder. With a consultation with the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the management of the SIPA agency, it was decided that the Agency's police officers should remain on site until the shop was completed, leaving two agency police officers on the spot as members of the screw-up team. During the event, knowledge was collected about the possible perpetrator of the crime and it was the person of the E.O. initiative, while it was found that two unformed members of the S.A. and R.N. Armed Forces were killed in the use of firearms on the sceneA. On the spot were found and witnesses to the execution of the crime, the driver of the Communist Public KJKP GRAS Sarajevo, where it was found that on S. the NN male person aged about 30 to 35, heights around 185 N., unshaven beards of dark brown, carrying in hands the firearms of an automatic rifle, entered the sports betting room, where members of the Armed Forces of BiH were killed near the worker. After entering, he fired several shots from firearms in the direction of members of the BiH Armed Forces, after which he immediately left the bookshop, approached the KYKP GRAS Sarajevo bus containing several passengers, including a uniformed member of the Armed Forces of BiH, and fired more shots in the direction of the same, to move away in the direction of the main traffic station M18. On that occasion, a third member of the Armed Forces sustained bodily injuries. 47 In the course of the shop, the curvature of the sports betting facility, for the purposes of art, has been fixed and excluded several traces of biological and mechanical origin between which are also a framework for ammunition for automatic ammunition rifles, on which the outer part of the duct-painted white paper on which the manuscript of large letters is written to Allaho eKber, which are stored in the Department of Criminal Engineering, Forensics and KDZ MUP of Kanton Sarajevo. At the moment of finding the trail, meaning this frame on which it was written to Allaho eKber, the prosecutor found, the state, that the event in question, had elements of the crime of terrorism. In the course of the shop of the curvature at the bus stop where the Mercedes brand vehicle was found, so for art purposes, more clues were fixed and excluded from the Department of Criminal Engineering, Forensics and the KDZ MUP of Canton Sarajevo. Since there were grounds for doubt that the crime was committed by the E.O. Police officers at Canton Sarajevo's MPs have taken intensive measures and actions at its location where it was determined that it is currently located at the home address. At the time of approach to the above-mentioned residential facility, police officers activated an NN explosive device, killing the perpetrator of this terrorist act. On the spot, an automatic rifle with a wooden knapsack and a wooden handcap, a bullet in the bed of a pipe without a frame on which, due to traces of blood and tissue, it was not possible to detect the mark. So this is what happened that day in Rajlovac at that address and further investigation is under way. The investigation is being conducted by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I can't talk about the details of the investigation right now. That's when it comes to information on this terrorist act in Rajlovac. When it comes to the event of General Jeleč, on 20.11.2015, Colonel General Ante Jeleč was driving in an official vehicle, means an official vehicle accompanied by his driver, Damir Akmadžić, and headed from Sarajevo to Mostar. In front of them in the immediate vicinity of the Salakovac tunnel, Mostar municipality, an unknown explosive device exploded without damaging the vehicle or passengers in the same. Working to shed light on the above-mentioned crime, the Mostar Pliss Administration came up with knowledge and evidence, and listened to witnesses of the events of the M.A. initialsA. And P.A. As well as the suspect H. who confessed to committing a crime. In a statement, the suspect said that he had thrown a pyrotechnic agent out of the vehicle window run by Pajo Amar, a cannon strike, as he passed through that tunnel. Against suspect H. A report will be submitted to the Mostar County Prosecutor's Office for the offence committed. And in this case, the investigation was conducted by the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and the SIPA employees were not involved in the investigation of this crime. I also want to inform you that during the night we had another case that happened in the Zavidovici. It's the Zavidovici Police Station on which an explosive device was dropped. The investigation is thus conducted by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and SIPA employees, the Agency for Investigation and Protection are on the scene, and the case is under investigation and investigation is under way. There are, then, certain indications of the perpetrators and traces of a possible explosive device that was dumped on that police station. So here's the information about these events, and here I am at my disposal. So, the Ministry of Security will certainly collect and provide detailed information on these events to the Council of Ministers and to you here by this conclusion that you are today, here is what I believe you will adopt today. Thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9347	Thank you. Replication or correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9348	Thank you very much. I used this to call it a replica because I didn't know what else to press. I detest, in fact, by asking the esteemed Deputy Minister Krešić not to keep the perpetrators from us under the initials. I wanted to insist on telling us who the E.O. was. And some more initials. And the other thing, the other thing I'm really saying is that we didn't have to move this wheel. All we've heard now is actually cynicism. We read it all on the portals, I don't know why we listened to this report modeled that the contractor shot the same bus. And again to be cynical or ironic, to ask if he was exactly the same bus and if he was the same executioner when he did it and when he was in the house, etc. So someone put this report together as if he was reading the portals and tracking the media, so he offered us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9349	Thank you. Now a discussion, Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9350	The Honorable Chairman. I think this is Parliament's defeat, what we are listening to today, and we are not aware of the fact that the problem is being done here, or those who impose such solutions are not aware. We are today listening to the Deputy Minister of Security's report or the Ministry of Security's report without having previously passed the Commission's defence procedure. Let me remind you, when the cases in Bosnia and Herzegovina were similar, that, people, we discussed the Council of Ministers' report. Why are we letting ourselves do this? Why is someone worth our intelligence? What news did we hear other than what we heard and saw on the media? What new information did we get? What kind of messages have we sent to those who inspire, order, organize people to commit these crimes of a terrorist act? What kind of message did we people send today? Do we know how many such faces there are in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Do we know if our security agencies are covering it operationally? They're obviously not covering. Are the existing legal regulations adopted by these institutions being respected? Does it have a political impact on the D.A.'s office? Do we have that kind of answer today? What did the D.A. handle on the Zvornik cases? Who's been arrested? Did it reveal who inspired, who ordered, who organized, who funded? Does any of us know that here today? And we're listening to a bunch of press reports on different portals, whether electronic or printed. What are we talking about here today? On what basis are we going to approach this responsibly? I am telling you that this defeat is the ruling majority at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We should not have allowed today at the House of Representatives to have information, yet we do not know whose, whether the Ministry of Security or the Deputy Minister, and that in the same cases we had discussed the information of the Council of Ministers. And when we discussed the information of the Council of Ministers, let's be responsible for each other, do we know if 49 are implemented the conclusions of the House of Representatives? Do we know where the investigation came from? And we know how the D.A. in certain situations reacts spotlessly, somewhere they make a decision in 10, somewhere in 15 days, somewhere in two days, and sometimes they never, ever make it. Is this about politicising the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Has everyone responsible in this country come forward for a terrorist act in Rajlovac? What today, Parliament, here we are, 42, has received some new information. Do we know anything? Do we know what institutions are going to do next? Here, you know? Well, that's why the SNSD asked for information from the Council of Ministers on the agenda. What did we hear today? What are the new measures? Why aren't the laws respected? Enough of the law to regulate all these forms of suppression, enough. Now some are imposing a question of some new laws. There's no new law, let's implement these. Who are our police agency managers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are they competent? This is what Parliament needs to talk about, whether political structure supports it or not. Do we know what some new challenges are, can we face current challenges? There's been a situation in the Navidovics tonight. And what are we going to say, yes, we had information on the state of security and security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what did we bring new? We don't talk for no reason. We think this is a problem for everyone. The problem of every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm afraid that once again the ruling structure, this is how we get into a situation to ease what it was. What kind of message are we sending? Please tell me what message we're sending. That we realized what the media had already published, and what else? Here the Council of Ministers today showed that the issue was not properly addressed as soon as we had no information. Now the House of Representatives shows that it deals in an unquality way with this issue. What do we send to the citizens, what does the ruling structure send to the citizens, what message today? What, please tell me what? What kind of message are we giving the D.A.'s office? What message do we give to those people who are in this process, who organize, inspire, organize, finance, order? You don't think they're watching or hearing this. I think we're getting into a lot, I don't know at the end of the day, and I suggest this kind of information, or this kind of initiative, is he satisfied with what we got today? This is a precedent. Who's gonna deliver the paperwork to us by 30th of September? And today we're going to make a clear statement about this. Someone didn't get a good look at the Rules of Procedure, but something's obviously wrong here today. We'll see, be careful to tell you, here it is necessary for the House of Representatives to state their position. But we can't, my people, based on one piece of information given to us by the Deputy Minister, respecting his professional credibility, how? Please let us take enough care of what messages are coming out of the House of Representatives. What kind of message is being sent by those who are here today? We have many more topics to discuss, some agency directors' elections, not acting, the silence of some very high-ranking officials of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, allow them to enter half the information in Parliament. We do not want to raise the temperature, we want what the law has defined to be implemented and that the agencies in charge of this work are doing their job to the end and in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9351	We've got Damir Arnaut, a misstatement. Is that what's left before or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, my esteemed colleague, Košarac, asked me if I was pleased with what Mr Krešić said as a pronoun of this conclusion, i.e. these points of the agenda. You see, if you remember my discussion on the agenda, I offered a compromise after a series of proposals appeared and I offered a compromise precisely because it was pretty clear that neither the Council of 50 ministers nor the Ministry of Security had this information today. And when you ask me what kind of person you're asking, is it me or Dom the whole message that we want the House of Representatives to send, in accordance with the circumstances, which is that the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers do not, unfortunately, have this information today, I think the most important thing is to send a message of condolences to the families who were killed in this terrorist act. And that's the message we're going to send today, and I've accepted so much time, so, the suggestion that the sooner the deadline is no later than 30.11., and I hope that by then, it's not much time, I hope that by then we will have really full information, and I hope that this information will contain concrete recommendations from the Council of Ministers to this Parliamentary Assembly, what we need to do, what we can give you, which tools we can give you that even better access to these problems, because these are really serious problems. So, to go back to this, which is not a question of whether I am satisfied or not, because my initiative was just the fruit of the fact that it was clear at the very beginning of the debate that the Ministry of Security today will not have the information we asked for, and therefore I have offered this compromise as I have offered, and this question of what the Representative predstavnički is going to send, even if it is this message of condolences to the families of the victims of this terrorist act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9353	Thank you. It's Diana Zelenika's emissary.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9354	Thank you. Here's a little bit. Kind of a replica of a fellow Košarac player. I think an even worse message would have been if we hadn't discussed it at all. That would be, here's a lot of worse messages. I agree that Mr. Krešić brought out only what we all knew on the portals, but I kind of, in a doctor's dictionary, we took a history. So what happened in memory, that's what we are. But what we miss and what I miss all the time in this House is prevention and therapy. So if nothing, through these conclusions that we will ultimately adopt on this item of the agenda, other than the inclusion of the dots, and in the conclusion of the events related to Salakovac and General Jeleč, I consider that until 30.10.(?), if we adopt this way, that report by the Council of Ministers should contain concrete recommendations and what we do to prevent and treat such events, in order to ensure the safety of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9355	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9356	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I've already said something from what I was about to say about the debate when it came to putting the agenda on the agenda for today's session and some comments on the unaccounted for answers. I wasn't a member of Parliament until this term, it means before. I am 51 constantly, so Mr. Košarac is behind me, I am not satisfied with this state of security, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'd like to do it just once, and it seems to me that the time has come for all, as a position and as an opposition, to get and to respond to this state. So I'd like to really get that information by 30th, but it's content and full, with what Lady Majkić said, let's see, so what about our agencies, what about our services, what about the Ministry, what about the Council of Ministers, what we're offering to finally solve this situation. I'd like to get a cut of all the things that smell like that in that information, under the pretext. So, I was talking about killing the returnees in Travnik in '98. For years, that's when father and son were killed. That's when old man Babić was killed. That's when two cops were killed. So it wasn't an accident, it was '98. A year. After that, the murder of Minister Leotar took place, then the murder took place in Kaknja, then took place in Zvornik, etc. So, does this have anything to do with anything? I'm not an expert on that job, and I expect that kind of answer, if we need to close the session and give it to the gentlemen who think they'll do better if something doesn't go out of the public because of the tactics of the procedure, I agree with that, which is what Saša, a colleague of Saša suggested. So, to close, so let people once tell us where we are, what we are, where there are drawbacks maybe. What fellow Arnaut said, what can we do to help the agencies with our conclusions, proposals, changes to the law, I don't know what, to finally change that situation. Maybe the answer is that our General Jeleča is someone, there's been an event, and imagine him doing a local police investigation. Well, that's responsible.What are we doing? So there's no SIPA to look for. Well, that's amazing. Imagine that this happened to the commander of the headquarters of some serious state, their armed forces. Who would do all this research and research? How can it happen that an employee of another agency is playing on the road? Well, imagine. So that's amazing, that's amazing what we're doing. So I wish I didn't really have that kind of information today. When we had information on the state of security, when the case took place in Zvornik, I remember Mr. Minister speaking, I remember his argument. And I told him then, Mr. Minister, do you hear yourself saying what you're saying? So, unfortunately, I wish he'd heard it, so he's not here today, and I wouldn't want to. First of all, I would like to get this whole information in which these events that happened throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Mostar, etc. will be sorted. What's the matter, what's going on, who's doing it, how's that happening? Why is that, how long did the prosecution get here? Why for three months, three months doesn't suit me for a 10- to 12-year-old event. So is it okay for them to at least tell me – sir, the case is closed, we have no proof. Is that okay? So they don't respect us. We, I don't know, we don't respect them, we're invited, first of all, I think we're invited to invite them to the seriousness of everyone, and the prosecution and agencies and the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. So give us people what's going on around us? Give us that, give us a history of what Mrs. Diana said, give us what we're going to do. Let go of the strike groups, I respect everything, it's all a rule of conduct, but what's going on in this room? Does anyone have any answer to that? If you'd only seen those cases in Travnik, I didn't want to do it then, I didn't have a chance to talk, or maybe it wasn't an opportunity, because there's always some other events that happen, so you can't go back retroactively, as if it didn't matter. Well, the man was blown up, I watched it with my own eyes, literally blown up. Father and son returnees were killed in their own house, in their own house. From 100 metres away, another man was killed who returned. You think that's an accident, don't you? Then we forgot it, I don't know if this Parliament has forgotten it, obviously it has, and then we forgot it in other parliaments and finally, here's the prosecution won't even answer as far as it came. I have half the information I could talk about here, who was hiding the evidence, what was going on, how the observation was done, etc. I don't want to bring it up here because I don't have any proof of what to say. And I'd like to hear from those who are authorized to do it, how it's done. 52 So I think that we are all invited as a government or parliamentary majority and as a position to give these questions a common answer, to help our agencies and I am ready, therefore in every kind, I would not go into that variant to accuse some earlier composition, because this obviously takes a long time, gentlemen. This takes a long time, just a little time to forget, and then again, someone reminds us of it, and someone forgets us again, so reminds us. So, let's say that, here in 2015, in this term we all respond together, but first of all, based on really thorough and good information from what happened and what our people we put in various agencies are offering us. So let's not mind if this information is, of course, 90% that we knew it was, 99% we knew it before Mr. Deputy Minister said it. So, let's say that if we have to... so let people open up to us, let people tell us what their problem is, so that we, as agents, once in this assembly, all together tell us what to do. What, in more serious countries, this is happening to us, more serious states. So this is not a normal state. So this is happening in one France, she has no problems that we have. Brussels, he's under siege. So this is not just the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't justify what's happened to us and our agencies not doing. But let's all do it together, here's in 2015 to fix it, if at all possible. I'm at my disposal as well as the HDZ Club, but let's get full information with measures, with suggestions, if we need to talk here in the eye and see where the mistake is, what a mistake. I hope I get something like that. I accept this conclusion, if I can do so on behalf of the club members, so I'm prepared to close up by 30th, so let's have a full debate, if necessary, as far as I'm concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9357	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9358	Thank you. The SDP's initiative as a fellow Košarac player to discuss this today, a conclusion that, on the basis of the initiatives and discussions that have been given before, was brought by fellow Arnaut, a discussion of other colleagues, shows that the intention of all of us to pay significant attention to this issue is to this issue. Unfortunately, we must begin to realize that today the Council of Ministers is not at the level of the task. This has nothing to do with Mr Krešić personally, but it must be said very clearly that what we are told today as information, as one of our colleagues said, was less known, and we hear today in Parliament initials, and the media published full names a few days ago. And in that sense I also understand a fellow Košarac player who shows his dissatisfaction in his own way. We're actually showing today, or the Council of Ministers and executives are showing their impotence or for some other reason he doesn't want to go public with information. I don't know what to discuss today. One technical information equivalent to a newspaper article. We don't have an answer, and it would be logical to have one. What was done from the time the terrorist act took place in Zvornik to what happened a few days ago in Sarajevo. We are witnessing that public correspondence in the media is between representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, where the Ministry of Security requires RAC to sanction media that in different ways become a platform for hate speech, a call for terrorism, 53 murders, etc., where the RAC again publicly responds that there is no jurisdiction. And with such a public controversy of the representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the whole system, the whole state, is becoming ridiculous and powerless in the eyes of the public. That kind of thing can't be allowed. This morning, I was asking a question, talking about the subject I started in January, when I received answers from the Ministry of Justice that our criminal law allows sanctioning hate speech, calling for murders, spreading religious intolerance and whatnot. Unfortunately, the number of crimes prosecuted in this way is negligible. And now each of you can go to any of the portals that allow comments, so see that at this point it happens in an inexplicable proportion. We do not have such an answer to the question, and it is understandable that we do not have it today, what our capacities are, what our problems are, what Parliament can do. What's the law and set of laws that we're going to, uh, do a special session, change them in an emergency procedure? What is it that we, as Parliament in Budget, which should be adopted soon, need to intervene to help executive authorities, agencies to be more efficient? This is all very bad today. An ugly message is being sent to the public, and for that I am sorry, and I wish we could get something good out of this thing as an example of what happened today in Parliament, but unfortunately this is not exactly the day that we can single out good things. Here I am, and if I had to, it's only good for me to see, in one way, unity within Parliament and willingness to go, is it, in the same direction. Well, even a colleague of Košarac named Mr. Džaferović with the Honored Chairman, and we know that until a few months ago at each session, Mr. Džaferović's resignation and the SNSD Club had left the sessions for that reason. So that's, if I have to isolate something good that's going on, that's it. I hope this debate doesn't end and the SDP Club will surely insist that as soon as we get the material, we have a serious debate. This isn't a serious debate today. I repeat again, that by respecting our Rules of Procedure the debate is closed to the public and that information is shared here and that we know where we are, what we do and what the role of each of us is in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9359	Thank you. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9360	Thank you very much. Here, I'll start with my colleague Magazinović's sentence – I don't know what to discuss. In fact, we've set up a agenda today so we don't know what we're going to discuss. What I think is the goal of this, and it wasn't actually that we are having a debate today, but that the conclusions that a colleague, as a proposer of such a formula of the agenda point, suggested, means by 30.09. we get the information that we can seriously discuss, 30.11. Because by insisting on putting this issue on the agenda without starting material, we have brought ourselves into this situation today that we are unfortunately discussing such serious issues in a rather unserious way. That's why we're all saying that we need a serious debate and that's why we expect to have that debate on the 30th of 11th, and that's why I'm not spending my 10 minutes, but I'm going to say what I'm about to say in a lot less minutes. There's been talk all along about what kind of message we're sending here today. We are actually sending only one message – that we as Parliament are ready to talk on this subject, and that not 54 can be done today quality, but that we can do it later. And that's the message. Any other message that someone thinks we can send without having the Council of Ministers' material is unserious thinking and we can't, of course unseriously expect something like that. What I don't need is 30.11. And that's why I think it's good, in some way, that we have this point today, that a representative of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Deputy Minister, sees what is expected of this information, in order to guide it in the right direction, is not the police report we heard in the form of reports that are being reported by reporters. The spokesmans when they go behind and say – the person with the initial team and team, using firearms, I don't know, etc., etc. We don't need that, that's what we have. What we need is knowledge, first of all, intelligence structures, and therefore this session has to be closed, in which we need to know the organization, we need to know who, from which motives, etc., and not who physically carried out this work. That's what we know, that's what we knew before this. His motive we probably know more or less. The essence of this debate, as far as I'm concerned, which will follow, is not that we're reading police reports, but that we're in trouble to come to a solution. If we don't, then we don't have a solution and, of course, we're going to have all this happening to us so far, I'm afraid in a much worse form than it's ever been before. So, I just wanted to say what I expect from this report, that is, this information, and, of course, we all expect the proposals for measures that we can support here, transform, in some ways do something to ensure that all intelligence and security structures in the coming period provide the safety of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9361	Okay. I'd suggest we take a break for lunch from 2:00 to 3:00. Do you agree? I think there are too many registered MPs to wait for the debate to end at this point. Break till 3:00. We're moving on with the session. The third item of the agenda is in progress. Please register, we counted that there is a quorum, but you need to connect to the system. Next up is Ambassador Zaim Backović. Ambassador Backović is not here, MP Dušanka Majkić. Oh, yes, I'm sorry. There's a gentleman. Excuse me, sir. I didn't see. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9363	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9364	Well, I have to improve the dioptria.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9365	Okay, well, sometimes it's not a waste of time to relax, no matter what it is that we're supposed to talk about here more than seriously. 55 I will not interfere with qualifications and something that can give a completely wrong connotation to those who interpret what we are saying here, I will try to talk about the real life and the feeling of people walking the streets of this country and this city where we are today, Sarajevo, when it comes to this type of event or some other event, because we are masters in... situation. First of all, I have to say that I am bitter that something like this is happening in my country, in a country that should have perhaps the most beautiful life in something called Europe, it's heartbroken, but it's not that it's hearty, but it has 3.5 million inhabitants, which is less than any major city in Europe, with natural resources that are above the largest number of countries that are considered the richest countries in the world, including Švajcarska. I'm talking about natural resources. Now, in those natural resources we also have natural resources, where man is given to God... we have something that distorts and destroys this country. And here we're not talking about religious, national or any kind of charge, but idiotism, something that is beyond any doubt total degradation of me as a man and all of us here, no matter what happens to someone, no matter what happens to someone, no matter what they look at indolently, we have big problems. I'll set an example for one child and then go back to these cases. One child who walks and passes by one object, is a religious object, on the fence of that object sits one who, in the sense of appearance, does not belong to an environment called the Bosnian Herzegovina, and this child carries a earring, such children today in Bosnia have a huge number, it does not mean that... of the people, religion or anything, and they stand up, surround him and tell him that once again when they pass the sacred object they will cut off his ears. I'm telling us a true story. If I have to, I don't want to do this, because they're going to say right now, I don't want to put my family in an awkward situation, a name and a last name. And then this child goes all crying out that he wants his ears cut off and his father goes out armed with them and says, "When he's short of hair, because I know every one of you, who bought them apartments I don't know, who brought them to this place, I don't know who pays them, because none of them do, I don't know, but these people live there in this neighborhood of my town and they drive, so they come wild, they drive out the pitomes. From that religious facility drove the native population away. I don't know how it happens, but I wonder what's going on. And I need a colleague, who I know well, we know each other well, we know each other as people, as friends, but I think you're also disaved as assistant minister and minister, because what you've read to us is the fact that what Mr. Košarac said, what Mr. SBB said, these are newspaper articles. I want an answer – is it true that it wasn't just those two military officers in the facility, but more military officers, is it true that when he went inside, he strictly demanded that those two stay, that the rest of them leave the facility, and that the girl was told... lie down? Be careful what I tell you, be careful what I say. Is that true? Is it true that by name he asked for a third? Is it true that they regularly gambled, or played this X, I've never bought a lotto in my life, so I can't even get termologically accurate, to play that x 1 - 2, 2 x 1 and rhombolu, that they regularly played at that facility? Is that true? Well, let's turn the stories around a little bit. Then I'd like to ask you if you'll get a decree on the ban on the sale of pyrotechnics, Christmases, Vaskrs, New Year's Eve, then New Year's, and then the next New Year's, and the firecrackers will shoot everywhere. Will it all be a terrorist attack? This is a very serious question, because you only have two assumptions. It's like math to you. When it comes to a high-ranking army officer, and I have to tell my esteemed colleague they don't know it, and they translate, all foreigners translate... so it can't be translated differently, there's no other term, if he knew there was an officer inside, a high officer and threw it away, then it's undivided... What if the driver had lost control of the vehicle at that point and they were killed? It's not a violation of public order and peace. So we need more details here that we have. Being a firecracker means nothing, from a firecracker's heart, to a man's heart attack. 56 This state said there were no illegal weapons. Is it possible that... archives, especially interior ministries, which we had three, means the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia and the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia, as well as military archives have no names and last names who owed that weapon. They don't show up or do we still import weapons? So check out Zaim Backović and look for – did you man return the weapon, do you have it. Do you see the fear of being ruled by children who need to live a normal life? How come we don't have that and that feeling that our children are no longer allowed to move normally, not in Sarajevo, but because of the general atmosphere of fear throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is that what we're supposed to allow? You gentlemen, from the Department of Defense, the archives, you're looking for, because it's impossible for that weapon to rise, to suddenly, from where it is, find 20 rifles there, find handthrowers, find explosives there. What's this? Is that what we live in that time of 1850, then onward, when the cowboys were wearing and shooting each other at each other's fights? What's this? If this is how we're going to talk about these things, based on this short, of course, man's neither guilty nor due, such a report has what it has, we talk about it, about something that has a whole other consequence. Don't forget that through this is supported by national tensions, religious discord, and especially, which I don't rule out, distance from the MAP. Let's not forget that we were very close, that now we're moving on. .../Employee warns that his time is up/... We need to know what it is, how and in what way and who's producing this. In addition to this I wanted to ask, allow me one sentence, please, ask one question, if it is the correct information, and it was presented by avaz two days ago, that in a few months, 286 companies that do not have any employees, none of them are properly registered, then companies bought real estate and that they are all registered by persons from the Arab world, someone has to explain to me what this country is doing. .../ MP is warned that his time has run out/... Who allows them to come to property and property in this way, through the establishment of a company, and no company has anyone employed and pays this country nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9366	Mr. Backović's 12th is a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9367	What is the goal of these countries, what is the goal of these...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9368	Mr. Backović's 12th is a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9369	Thank you. I'm not saying anything against anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9370	I know, go through the replicas, I don't mind. MP Dušanka Majkić. I apologize, Replica Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say – if I have understood one sentence or one part of this discussion by Mr Backović, then I am terribly disappointed. Namely, the conscious act that the D.A. defined as an act of terrorism on a gambling account is extremely, extremely impertinent, not to use another term. I'm sorry to use that term to my colleague. I can't believe that after the 57th part of the discussion, there's a part about three gamblers sitting there and somebody coming with an automatic rifle and killing two Bosnian-Herzegovina Armed Forces soldiers, even if the possibility exists. To be honest, I'd be calmer if that were the case, I'd be less concerned if someone had killed someone for gambling debts, not because it was a terrorist act. What bothers me is this possibility that in such a way we can place ourselves here in Parliament after so much desire, which we have shown here when we put this point on the agenda, that we want to be accounted for and I don't even know what we're not, that I don't repeat what we've been saying. If I have misunderstood, I apologize to my colleagues, Backović and all my colleagues in Parliament, but I am afraid I understand well.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9372	Thank you. Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9373	I'm sorry, Mr. Novaković, you got me all wrong. I said the report's like a newspaper article. And what I just told you, what I said is from, from the portal, I don't want people to get informed from the portal, and then I said it in that twisted view, through... through the portals you can say anything. I didn't say it was, but you have to tell us how it is, not to say this was still in there, so he was selective, so I'm not saying it, it wasn't really my intention in my sleep. So I'm saying something here that through the form of misinformation, through something called these hyvan boxes, these, the Internet, people get all kinds of pictures. We have to have, the citizens have to have the right picture, the exact picture of what's going on in this country. We just have to, because of the future of kids growing up here, because if this keeps up, the kids want to get out of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9374	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9375	Now, after all this time I think we were right this morning when we said this subject should be given a place of importance and time in circumstances that can provide it. After many discussions, even more replicas, we will bring this topic to an end and wait for some next moment at which we will not achieve anything so new. This is not the first time we have talked about such topics, which suggests that there is still no willingness in this country to take effective action on terrorism issues, at least we are not setting an example. These are just declarations and they can't be confirmation and they can't take any test that could be put in front of them. Why is it important for Parliament to discuss this? First, this is a unique case that in so many years as I am in Parliament that this one-time event has not been notified to the Joint Defence and Security Committee urgently. Why isn't that done? It has never happened 58 that the Ministry of Security as a first priority has not brought down the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. Why? We don't need operational data to read to them, and what the deputy minister is, that's why I suggested to him, to read it, maybe there's a slip somewhere, this is an open set, it's not supposed to talk about it that way. How should Parliament view this? What are the measures he can take to avoid such things happening? It's our only assignment here. To talk about it, we need to be well informed, and that's why everyone has to be. Not only does this apply to the Minister of Security, but the entire Council of Ministers, and it does not only refer to the Deputy Minister, whose chain here, is practically in the most awkward position right now. So, Parliament, its competent commission was supposed to take the first picture, hold the debate, and then hold a debate at the House afterwards. That's the rule, that's the rules and that's the practice. Now no one respects any rules. So the security minister behind TV says things have not yet come to say them, then doesn't inform anyone. It's not the way. There are institutions, those who speak of respect for the institutions of this state, should make sure that they respect the institutions that are designed to do so. That goes for Parliament, too. And we kept our mouth shut and acted like it was happening in an African country. So we don't have the opportunity to make proposals in terms of what Parliament needs to do crucially, it doesn't need someone to tell us, to look at it, to discuss it, and to then be a measure. Another thing we should do, do we have a way, finance, and even a vision of what it's supposed to do. I don't believe that at this point, when the situation in the security sector is as it is, that anyone can respond individually from security agencies, none of them, where we are and what measures should be taken to prevent things from happening. The third thing that often happens to us, that we don't know if we control the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know there are parts of the territory the police can't get into. Have we mastered that space, do we know all those places where we have no influence? takoċe we got, now after these events in Paris, we got information that both Bosnia and Herzegovina became... a country in money laundering to fund terrorism. What did we do on that subject? So the Britanac now clearly wrote, and not only that, but that we are a key country by number of people, i.e. The fourth, which sends to battle in the Islamic state. Are these the questions that this Parliament needs to discuss and are these the questions for which we can make our full contribution? I think we're gonna lose, so here's the thing, nothing of this is going to go out like this with one... There'll be another moment when we get some information, but we'll see what that information is. I know, I've been very zealous so far when it comes to security information and I know it's always just a bunch of statistics, never a correct and quality proposal that could serve Parliament in decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9376	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9377	I have to say that one of the reasons for a rather ineffective debate on this subject today lies the fact that we have a point of the agenda that we misconstructed. From the very formulation of this item of the agenda and the debate was headed in the wrong direction. We don't have information on security today, and in the agenda is the information on security, with a special view, not to quote now the complete agenda point. We don't have it today. The only thing we can do today is, in part, say colleague Novaković, we as MPs before a serious debate, when we get serious material, to make recommendations, suggestions and suggestions on what should contain such serious information today. And we don't have that. I must say, after this debate, I think that the initial proposal of the SDP Club today is to get one full piece of information on the state of security, and within that information to process both Rajlovac and Zvornik, and Bugojno and all other issues, might be the best solution. So, we don't have all the information, we've opened up a big debate about it. I expect, and I will say something that I expect from this information we hope to have here in Parliament soon. I don't expect just a look in the mirror to see what happened, of course, I expect that, but first of all, I expect to see a view forward, to see what these measures are, what are the directions of action, how this country will face serious problems seriously. At least we shouldn't take a step backwards today, that some statements that can be misread to make even bigger problems. I don't know, one of the previous discussions before the break said, as – today is the defeated Parliament. Well, we can't even think about it, let alone say it. From here, the message must go towards both the public and the whole country – it cannot be defeated by Parliament, by any state authority, or by any state, especially by those forces of evil. What forces of evil we see is, on both a global example and an example of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can talk, of course, about bad authority, about bad individuals, about inefficient institutions, but we must always say that the state and state authorities will be able to defeat every evil in this country. And I have to say that, now I suggest, so it would be interesting in the information that we get to clarify one part of how much the overall political situation and the action of domestic actors, above all on the plan of obstruction and preventing the construction of efficient and trained security structures, as much as it affected that we are in this position. That's why I'm asking because we see that the most powerful and most developed countries that don't even have 1% of that kind of problem have big problems today. And as for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we have these problems. Well, at least let's settle these things, see if that coordination from the state to the lower levels works. If it doesn't work, is it, why, who's responsible for it, and how we can improve it, so let everyone do it, is, what he's responsible for and responsible for. To conclude, they need nadm, therefore, the essential measures in this information, the direction of action, and in this way, we expect in this information that, for the first time, perhaps, you should provide us with what is the task, which are the deadlines for doing the job and who are the bearers of the job. I expect in this information to see what the negative effects of this phenomenon are, above all, in three dimensions. Number one, and I always point out, the human dimension, which means for this country on an economic scale, I'm not going to talk more about it right now, but it's very reflected on that plan, and of course that third -- the security dimension. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9378	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I am taking the opportunity to greet you all warmly. 60 Well, of course, I have all these discussions, which I have had the opportunity to hear, I have accepted and understood as something that is an expression of concern, even pointing to a really dangerous situation like we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the phenomena of this terrorism that cannot be seen as isolated cases. Not only can this last case be observed without previous cases being forgotten (?). Of course, I cannot agree with the criticisms relating to that information presented by the Assistant Minister because that information in this sense, Deputy, excuse me, was not even prepared in that sense. That was one piece of information that we could, here's to say, read in both the newspapers and all the media. So such information will not help us. If we get such information at this session, which we said would be 30, then we have no reason at all to have an optimistic attitude towards a possible solution to this problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, in this sense, I really propose, that I do not prolong because really my colleagues and colleagues have said a lot, and I support all the discussions, but I would like, with the concrete conclusion that I am proposing, to assign the Council of Ministers to propose, within the framework of this information, measures that the Council of Ministers, in the framework of their competences, and together with other organisations, or agencies that are responsible for these issues, to oppose this terrorist action by individuals and groups. So, I think this is what Parliament needs, and in this way to express our concerns, not just through these discussions, but to give a concrete task to the Council of Ministers. ...we'll get us a full discussion., written material, a report based on which we will be able to discuss here. Of course, I haven't said anything new, but it seems to me, since I'm last, I have to say that these are a number of colleagues and colleagues already in advance, actually before me said, but here I am also taking the opportunity to make a written suggestion of one such conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9380	Thank you. You are not the last one, so MP Sadik Ahmetović has been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9381	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, present. I've been thinking about whether to answer, but I've been offered the discussions I've heard here today, and in connection with what's been said by Mr. Krešić, Deputy Minister, this is where he informed us from what was only possible when it came to the Ministry alone. We have heard various observations here, I have no dilemma in criticising anyone when it comes to the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it must be said that the Council of Ministers held an emergency session for the first time since this terrorist act. We can go back and retrospectively by date see all those terrorist acts we had in the earlier period and the dates when the Council of Ministers' meetings were held. And you'll see that sometimes it's been months and months and after the severe terrorist acts, we haven't had a Council of Ministers session. About the information some here called and that it was copied from these newspapers, portals, etc., etc., I don't think they stand. This is information, I'm sure, which the Ministry has received from the police agency to the extent that it is possible to have as information at the moment, so as not to endanger the further course of the investigation. The second question is what do we expect from the Department of Security, which has absolutely no or almost no jurisdiction. You know that many, or some of the state-level police agencies, were formed before the Ministry of Security got their laws 61 and then we got the Ministry of Security, and between those agencies and the Ministry of Security we have nothing or any obligations arising from the law. That's what we keep quiet about. Or when we open that story, then we call on some national, political, entity, etc., etc., interest. And that's the problem we need to talk about here if we think that we are adequately confronting a problem called terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina and beyond, given that it is a global problem. And we must never give him a sound, a political sound. Why? Very often, very often, we can hear that in certain parts of the country, it is pre-named, and in some parts of the country it is minimized. And that's a mistake. And all those who are building a political story on it, damage and police agencies and all those who are fighting and who are trying to prevent these acts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the information we heard, so those basic or those translated information that we had and will be very interesting in the further course of the investigation to hear what are possibly commanders or potential motives. Someone here has asked a question, I will re-submit it, when it comes to, or ask why the Armed Forces of BiH? Is the motive for stopping Bosnia and Herzegovina from getting the MAP? Is the shooting of the Armed Forces perhaps against the entry of Bosnia and Herzegovina in obtaining the MAP? And it would be good for our security agencies or the police agencies and the D.A.'s office to either give that answer. I don't say that's the case, but it would be good if we got that answer, too. When we talk about security challenges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are the same as in the surrounding countries. Especially when it comes to terrorism, they are the same as in every country in the world. But what's different when it comes to the world or countries in the environment and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have or don't have, we have a completely scattered security system, or police system. And that question here needs to be spoken clearly and given the right answers. I know for sure that in certain periods a better exchange of information was between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries than within police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's true. Why is that? This may also be confirmed by the directors of police agencies and security agencies if they do not keep the information to themselves or if they do not want to share it with those to be spoken to. Do we have the strength to stand up to this? If we just talk after every terrorist act, I don't think we do. If we don't get what we're supposed to call a real name or define a problem, I think we're gonna have a hard time standing up to this monster. Why? I've already spoken before. Someone here mentioned coordination. We in the Co-ordination Act have that the Coordination Directorate is coordinating the Border Police and the SIPA, and no one else. All other coordination comes down to whether or not someone will voluntarily co-operate with the Coordination Directorate. It was best seen here when there was an attack on the American Embassy, when the three police came and there was no telling which one to intervene or who's older, so to speak, and which one has priority over, when it comes to these crimes. We need to open up all the questions. We in our system, in our constitution, in our laws have no ability to declare an emergency. One France that has an hourly system, and a security system, and a police force, has declared a three-month state of emergency. I understand why we don't have, why it's not in Dayton, why it wasn't in Dayton. Because the whole country was armed. It's been 20 years now, we've got new problems, we've got new challenges. We have a difficult challenge called terrorism. Why don't we have a chance, at least when it comes to these crimes, to have a state of emergency. Do we have the strength to talk about it here? I think if we opened that story, then many would call on some different interests of entity, party, I don't know all of which, regardless, and they wouldn't think, any of us, about what threatens every citizen of this country. Do we have the strength to pass the Anti-Terrorist Act? Do we have the strength to pass the Security Act, which would not take away any jurisdiction of any police agency, just set them rules of play in such or similar situations. I don't think so. Do we have the strength to amend the SIPA Act, where 62 would give power to the financial intelligence department? I tried that as a minister. We don't. Why did I try? I used to say that here, the Law on Police Officers won't let us hire people who know how to do it in the financial intelligence department of the SIPA. Because whoever's competing there has to be a police officer first, and then an expert. And we usually have there in those departments dealing with the Financial Intelligence Department, which should identify where the finances and the money are coming from to finance it. We have, not to offend occupations, various occupations that have nothing to do with economics and finance. And let's open these questions, let's open something that would be useful, which would be useful for both this country and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without that, it is very difficult for us to pay tribute to every act here for a minute of silence, study the fatiha and continue, cross and I don't know everything the way he thinks, but I think as long as we have a system like this and until we can talk openly about what's the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will be very hard to have the right answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9382	Thank you. Mr Ahmetović was last reported for discussion. I'm closing point three. Let's go to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for an Asylum Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 18th session, held on 07.10.2015. In 27.10.2015, the Joint Committee on Human Rights requested the removal of the draft law on the agenda of the 19th session of the House due to a large number of amendments tabled. The committee responsible submitted the report on 23.11.2015 and adopted three amendments. On 23.11.2015, Ambassador Damir Arnaut submitted three amendments to the procedure to defend the plenary phase in accordance with Article 124. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9384	I thank the chairman. As you have announced my other amendments that I have proposed, either myself or together with my esteemed colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, have been adopted by the Commission. These are the three that's left. So the first two concern the rights to translators and standards introduced in the case of translators, and the third amendment concerns more precise definition of the reasons for persecution. Since it is very clear and precise that all three amendments have been tabled as well as those adopted on the Commission, all amendments have been made with the aim of fulfilling the EU directives which, as a country that has aspirations to the EU, are better done now than when it becomes an absolute obligation, as has become an obligation for the Republic of Croatia, which is then its law, which has adopted this area this summer, in 02.07.2015, a law that treats this area in the Republic of Croatia. And in order to avoid any controversy, I thought it was much better to overwrite it literally from word to word, so without any changes, there are links to Croatian law, copying it from the current law of the Republic of Croatia that treats this area. They call it the Law on 63 international and temporary protection of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those amendments adopted on the Commission and those not adopted on the Commission, which I again defend at this session, are, therefore, 1.2 and 3 amendments literally prescribed by the Law of the Republic of Croatia which treats this area. Here, this is the introduction. I would just like to add that it was on the Commission, the Security Ministry's representative felt that this matter should be regulated by Praivnik and I pointed out, and I am now pointing out that I do not see why Bosnia and Herzegovina would invent hot water to regulate something by the Regulation, which the Republic of Croatia, an EU member country, considered necessary to regulate the law. Finally, let me draw, therefore, these amendments are heading towards the fulfilment of the current EU directives and are literally prescribed from the applicable Law of the Republic of Croatia, which treats this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9385	So the College has agreed to limit the time of discussion from now on to five minutes and for reporters or promoters 10 minutes. The next is Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9386	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, media representatives. So here we are in the second step at one job that we need to finish. In fact, we had one broad area regulated in one law, so we decided whether to pass two separate laws. The second of those two laws is the Asylum Act, he's in phase two. Here we have the Report and the Commission's competent authorities some of the amendments have been adopted. Since it's a second reading, I'll concentrate just on the details. Therefore, I will support the Law in this text as it is before us and with the amendments adopted, of course, on the Commission responsible. And about the amendments of a respected colleague of Arnaut, they make sense, here's for two reasons. So, the first is that the amendments apply to EU directives, so we better do it now than in some subsequent process to go again with any amendments and additions to the Asylum Act. Another practical reason, so our neighboring country, which has already finished this job, contained the same things in its Law. So it would be good if we did the same thing. I was interested and wondered why it was not accepted on the Commission. Here were the arguments from the ministry's representative that they would do so in a sublegal act. I think it's better to have it regulated in the law in any case, and then I don't defend that, as stated in the Law, to bring in later and sublegal acts, but there will be fewer dilemmas about the very process of adopting sublegal acts and possible clarifications of things for the application of the law. What I might have some little slight remarks about amendments and what I'm going to ask, possibly if the applicant, colleague Arnaut, wants to respect them, I'll take it out, so here, it's on him, he can possibly correct his amendments. My corrections aren't essential, they're more in the normative part, and they're about renumbering members of the existing law. Namely, Amendment II adds a new Article 16, so here I can say that there are a lot of strict conditions for translation engagements, but here I am not going to enter into that part that must meet both these and those conditions and as if it were a civil servant and anything. And this new member, this new member of 16, leads to 64 renumbering the other members from 16 to 83 to become members of 17 to 84, which is a perfectly normal thing. However, the problem is in the third amendment, which states that after Article 20, a new member of the 21st reads is added, and then the text of that new member 21. In fact, starting with the assumption that both the first and second amendments will be adopted, the 20th member has already been renumbered as the 21st member. Thus, the text of Amendment III should read – in the proposal for an asylum law behind the former Article 21, a new Article 22 is added. So, in that section about renumbering, and then the last sentence of Article 21, ie. Amendment III should read so far – Articles 22 to 84, because that renumberation was carried out by Amendment II, becoming members 23 to 85. Because two new members of the law are being introduced. Amendment II New Member 16 and Amendment III New Article 21. So that the law would, of course, be adopted by all three amendments, especially the second and third, not 83, but 85 members. The particular connection here regarding this prenumeration is a prerequisite for being adopted both first and second, and third amendment, especially the second, which is related to renumberation in the third. It would be then, we would have to return the matter to 80, excuse me on the 22nd to 84th condition that the second amendment was not adopted. Well, that's it, thank you very much. I'll uphold the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9387	Thank you. We have a replica, Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I agree with Mr. Rančić. Of course, this is something I have taken into account and, as Mr Rančić pointed out, the only reformation that would be necessary would happen in Amendment III, but that reform depends, of course, on whether amandman II. is adopted. And since it's about the new law, the single rules don't allow what would be the most elegant, is, like, a new member of 15a) or 16a, I don't know which one. So we can't use that kind of numbering in the new law, a) and b), etc. But here, given that Amendments I and II are very similar to the treatment of the same substance can be assumed if Amendment I is adopted, that Amendment II will also be adopted, so I accept this proposal from Mr Rančić. And in accordance with Article 124(4). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which allows the amendment to be modified by the motions until the debate is concluded, should be recast in the first sentence instead of Article 20, or Article 20, to be a member of the 21st, a new member shall be added, instead of the 21st, and then shall be 22nd to 83nd, and then the members of 22nd to 84th will be 23rd to 85th. This shall be fully in accordance with Article 124(4). Rules of Procedure. I think the secretary can confirm that I can make this transformation. I accept the proposal of an esteemed colleague, Rančić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9389	Thank you. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9390	It's very short, since... it's a matter of renumberation that I agree with, I just want to say that these amendments deserve to be supported. It is special to me, so fellow Arnaut himself said 65 that this is not inventing hot water, that these are solutions that exist in Croatia, so the country that is a member of the EU, is particularly interesting to me in the third amendment. I believe that my content represents a major step in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation for reasons of persecution, other than race, religion, nationality, political opinion, introductions and sexual commitment, which I think is one of the pioneer steps in our legislation, defining and social group in a way that can also be marked by a group based on common characteristics of sexual commitment. I think this is the legal solution, especially given that fellow Arnaut has been well aware of this European practice and of the Croatian law, it is quite appropriate to be part of our legislation as well. And in that sense, I think it deserves attention, and we will, of course, support the Law and these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9391	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9392	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9393	Zaim Backović, replica. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9394	I'm going to support the law in part by merely suggesting a small slip and a failure to abuse, abuse, and that's what our neighbors have just seen, Mr. Damir. That's what I was just talking about. Forming the firm, getting it, and then getting a stay and then nothing. Just possibly one little suggestion. Those forming must be reported, if not reported, then subject to general legislation on the residence of foreigners. Because you now have situations, dozens, hundreds of people who stay here permanently through the formal formation of legal entities that don't function at all, and there's no one reported paying medical, social, pension or anything else to this country. Now they remember how to avoid our legislation. Just one little suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9395	Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9396	I answered about Amendment number III. It says here to add a new member of the 21st, so there are reasons for the persecution. The reasons for the persecution are assessed in terms of content, so the content of the following concepts shows. Now, in the context of the following terms, point 3 speaks of nationality. I disagree with this content of this concept, a team before today in the world we have two views of how nationality is assessed. One is the Western view of state-law, the other is Eastern, say culturally-biologically. In world termological communication, which has also been accepted by the UN, the nationality is the sum of citizens, while that Western view therefore assumes that there is a distinction between the nation and the people, unlike this eastern view where both the nation and the people are the same phenomenon. Therefore, this interpretation of nationality for me personally is not acceptable and I am obliged to say it. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9397	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9398	So, as a matter of fact, there's no problem. These amendments should be accepted, I think it was better if the Commission did but did not. But there's one problem, I talked to a secretary, a nomotechnical nature called calling certain members to some members of the law. If until we move in that early phase of the law, then the whole order is disrupted and we can get a mockery or a freak of the law. Well, then until the vote, some people who advocate these changes have come up with an idea, so that's the solution, to keep in mind that we don't get into trouble, actually get something that's funny when it comes to calling on members. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9399	Thank you. This concludes the fourth item of the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9401	Replica. Uh, it doesn't matter, I don't want more than two minutes anyway. What Mr. Džaferović said is true, I agree. This is what we offered to adopt on the Commission, and it would be much easier. What matters to me is that there is, means that the amendments need to be adopted, that there is a will to adopt them, and I am sure that in the event of such a will that we will find it very easily, and that a monotechnical, or technical solution to these issues, meaning that, of course, I do not know whether to seek a break for consultation or, uh, or there is a will, so don't let the amendments of this kind fall because of technical matters. That's it. If there is a will, I think Mr. Džaferović gave the signal that there is no need, is that right, for a break so, then we will very easily come to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9402	Okay. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Discussion Information on the violation of human rights and freedoms and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići – Proposer: Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević 67 Here's my word to the promoter. Please sign in only.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9404	I thank and thank all the colleagues who have supported today to put this point on the agenda. I don't think I need to speak in detail what this is all about. The fact is, unfortunately, in this country, the example of Boksit is that Milići is merely an escalator of something that has become a daily phenomenon, which is harassment, mobbing employees by employers. I was recently on one of the stands, when a young man came out with me and said, you know, you talked about everything, but you didn't talk about it once, my wife was out of a job just because she was in another condition. Not to mention that people are registered to that minimum income. So every day we're in all jobs or most of them, unfortunately, facing something called mobing. What happened in the Milics is just an escalation of such a general phenomenon. I don't know, here's maybe a co-worker who didn't have a chance to follow, the president of Milici has a rather unusual behavior, so in 21.10.2015, he sent a memo inviting his 25 workers to a polygraph test. The memo was provided in the file I submitted here today. And all persons have been called upon to necessarily reach and access the polygraph testing and otherwise no entry will be considered a violation of labour discipline and a disciplinary procedure will be launched against them. Then he was hired, a polygraph test was conducted by an unauthorized politicalist from the Republic of Serbia who is not authorized to do so in Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, one of the employees, the girl Jelena Simić, did not pass the test. Turns out she was communicating with someone she didn't really like the company's director, which is why his private security brought her into the hotel room, and the media published, he physically ran into her, strangled her, abused her, threatened her by not moving out to swallow her, from Milic, swallow Drin, etc. After the media released the story, the company's director verbally attacked a BN TV journalist who called him to hear his side of the story. Alternative TV and federal television have so published this story. It ended with the director of the company suing them and putting pressure on them for libel. I note that the girl who was the victim of this, voluntarily subjected herself to a polygraph test by the Banaljuk Association of Psychological and Polygraphic Research, and on this test it was confirmed that she was telling the truth about her employer being harassed. When BN TV called for a show and Mr Dukić, and psychologists, and mentioned girl, instead of responding and telling her side of the opinion, Mr Dukić made a statement, which you can find on the site "Boxyta", a statement where he told BN TV that they could defend themselves in court. By the way, I draw your attention to the fact that the Jelena Simić is being manipulated, that it is the same on sick leave, and I draw attention to both you and her not to abuse sickness. What is this, a threat, you can't go there because you're sick? And in the end, he's telling BN TV that they need the psychiatrist they invited to the show, assuming it's a good expert, it might be useful because apparently they need a psychiatrist. These are just some, so I didn't really say here, and Mr. Bosić and I were honored by these statements of vulgarity, profited from the media in Republika Srpska that charged the publication of these statements, just because we asked for protection for the mentioned girl and that institutions, in this case, the Ministry and the District Attorney's Office did their job. Republika Srpska's MUP filed a report against Mr. Dukić for the crime committed. The report was submitted to the Eastern Sarajevo District Attorney's Office. I will not talk about that unfortunately in Milic, because this comes out of the theme "Boksita", we have one phenomenon that, there are some lists where 68 people are forbidden to enter a hotel that is owned by Mr Dukić. Well, the guy who was on that blacklist, the other day when he tried to get into it, there was a physical accounting. The injured went to the home of health and then Mr. Dukić's bodyguards came and shot him in the home of health, wounding him in the leg. takoċe as an employer, in May of this year, Mr. Dukić directed his initiative, an instruction to his workers whom you can all find on the site "Boxyta" today, where he obliges them to read his four books during their vacation. You know he put his bust next to Ivo Andrić, so he thought he was as interesting as Ivo Andrić. The four books are "Three Successful Stories", "Great Brother", "Milići in Five Stories" and "Postdaytonal Authority and Powerlessness or the Chronicle of One Time". And, after the annual board, workers had to answer questions from his books. So I'd call this mobing. Well, if I wasn't taking any more time, since we're not judges or anything here, I'd ask, I suggested three conclusions. Dear colleagues... to support these conclusions and to task our Ombudsman institution for human rights to provide us with a report by mid-January on respect or non-compliance with human rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ and, of course, to condemn human rights violations in the field of work as a general phenomenon in this society. Because you know what's scariest to me, which in the Jelene Simić case kept the union quiet, and the Boxita Union called to condemn media attacks on its employer. That's the scariest thing we haven't heard from the union. And of course, the third conclusion is that we support all of these media reports about these phenomena and which are exposed to pressures, in this case they were Alternative Television, Federal Television and BN Television, which they received, here from the employer and this criminal complaint, that is, the libel suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9405	Thank you. Ambassador Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9406	Thank you, Chairman. The agenda item is Consideration Information on the violation of human rights and freedoms, and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići. What does the House of Representatives have to do with this? And why is the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on this issue, and that, in the working material we received, we do not have the findings of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we do not have a letter, these persons are said to be in some mobbing, problems, etc. I respect the fact that you come from this area and have some kind of communication and that you have some kind of perception of what was going on or is going on in the company "Boksit“ Milići, but coffee has to do with the House of Representatives? There are a number of institutions in which this could previously be addressed, in the local parliament, and then damaged, under alleged signs, by the parties to the relevant institutions. We see that the Republika Srpska MUP has done its part of the job. We don't have a report from the D.A.'s office here, or a report from the D.A.'s office, so we can make up our minds about it at all. We don't have an ombudsmen report. Here we have, I'd say, a note or a thought by a esteemed colleague, Pandurević. I'm never going to support mobing over anyone, no attack on the media, and here I have no ambition to defend anyone at all. I have no ambition to defend anyone at all, but I want to ask all of us - what do we have to do with this, especially if we do an analysis of the conclusions? It would be extremely logical for those damaged parties to address the Ombudsman for the protection of human rights. The Human Rights Commission would have seen that, of course, has the right to call on the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has the right to call 69 public hearings, and eventually to reach some information. I'm afraid there's too much subjective here. And then we are all in a position to plead on some proposals for conclusions, that we do not have relevant evidence or information from the relevant institutions in charge of protecting human rights. I don't know if any of us here have seen one document of the relevant human rights institution? I understand that the Ombudsman at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I understand that we should consider annual or periodic reports, I don't know exactly, the Ombudsman for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I don't understand that without a single valid document of human rights institutions, we are discussing and making some kind of conclusion in the House of Representatives. Do we have any? I understand the fact that there is a political struggle for early elections for the head of the Milic municipality that are scheduled, I think, December 6th, I understand. I understand the legitimate political parties that plead to take the position of the head of the municipality. I also understand that we don't all think the same about Rajk Dukić or the company "Boxyt", and I understand that. I understand that someone likes or doesn't like them, I understand that someone is wrong or not wrong, but I don't understand why we need to verify these conclusions today, and we don't have a single document from a competent institution. I ask you not to abuse, none of us, the House of Representatives for some kind of political struggle. A lot, watch out, I won't defend anyone, if the competent institutions prove that this is all the same, then we'll plead our conclusions. We'll look for reactions. But like this, to rule without documentation, I think we're dealing with a dead end, to damage the credibility of this institution, respecting, once again, political struggle, political interests at local level, different political programs of parties, different approaches to some people, but don't please don't do that in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9407	We have a replica, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9408	I thank the chairman. Well, you see, colleague Košarac, if the Ombudsman had done his job, the former one was SNSD's position or came to the SNSD's proposal, there would be no need for this information today. But we've been calling, and here we have new ombudsmen. And that's why I made this up because of this conclusion. We are not judging anyone, but we are also asking for a special report from the Ombudsman that they will clear up, and the truth will be what they have said. If it were up to us politics, we'd give them a seven-day deadline so that it could be before the local elections in Milic. Here is the deadline for the Ombudsman's report on January 15th. So the election in Milic will be over. It's scary to me, I haven't heard from anyone from SNSD that he's convicted, so somebody's not gonna say that a girl choked herself and left her bruises. I have not heard publicly, and interestingly, RTRS has not released a word, the only medium in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has not published this story. I don't want to talk about Republika Srpska's MUP here, the fact is that... they did the job, but the fact is that some security upstairs is walking around the Milić, that we don't know if they're registered in accordance with the agencies of security of the person and property in private activity, whether they're technically or physically, so I'm not talking about it, but you're talking, it's the work of the Republika Srpska MUP, and I'm going to ask the Minister of Lukač tomorrow, whether they have permission to do it and whether these people are certified or can walk around the Milić like they're fighting who they like? Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9409	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9410	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I think I was polite this morning when I was talking about what this Parliament looked like a year after the election. I ask you to try to protect the dignity of this House. I have a feeling we're missing some more sex affair and that the entire restaurant is in this country. Let's get out of this, let's be state ambassadors. If each of us brings something from the local community and serves here, develop a picture of what this Parliament will look like in the next year. That's why I'm inviting you all to... If I'd been here, I wouldn't have voted for this point. The role of Parliament and the state is to form institutions to work. I don't know if these parties, any of them individually addressed the Ombudsman? They personally, because the injured Parliament is here. So let us respect you, respect these rights of these people, but not to enter into this debate. We're still missing a sex affair and it's going to be a complete feast, because it's going to be like the House of Representatives of the State Parliament. And, therefore, I'm not asking anyone to replicate, but please, yes, so this morning I said the formulation of Parliament dying, even worse than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9411	Deputy Chairman, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9412	I fully understand why colleague Pandurević put this on the agenda, although I understand the remarks that Parliament cannot deal with all individual situations, and I know what the motive was. Because the institutions that need to deal with the team don't want to do anything. And that's an amazing story. I don't know, probably 70% of you here don't even know what this is about. The man has his own territory in which the laws of the state and the Republika Srpska do not apply, the man has his own police calling the industrial police who are bringing people to the hearings, to the polygraph interrogations. And it's not since yesterday, it's been asking Bog since when. And it's a typical example of mentality, a man who got rich at the expense of state property using the natural resources that he got to use from the state and who became arrogant and above the law. So it's not a lonely story with us, it's our mentality that those who get to the couples think they can do anything. And this is one, only one in a series of such stories in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where those who have come in any way to a large pair take the law into their own hands. And that was the motive of MP Pandurević to address this Parliament, because there is nowhere else. There's nowhere else to find understanding. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman also elected this parliament and this is an appeal to the Ombudsman to get involved in the problem because it is behind it by the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9413	Thank you very much. Replica, Lady Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9414	Well, these affairs, mentioned by Mr Špirić, say there are a lot of them in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they don't do their jobs, so they have a lot more time for these affairs, and unfortunately they should. I will support this initiative primarily on the human side, on the other hand as a member of the Joint Commission, on the third hand as someone who is in the legislative body and should absolutely deal with this issue, because this is about citizens, or citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the third hand, we need to finally, so, when we connect this point to the previous points we discussed, i.e. the state of security and this point, we first need to take responsibility here, because we are constantly dealing with such appointments, where we again position similar rather than capable. So we had ombudsmen probably, I don't know what the practice will show today-to-morrow, with new ombudsmen, but everything was spinning and still practicing practice to name people on the party line for all important functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina without having an absolute level and zero percent of the moral principle to act in the protection of human rights. We are the signatories of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, and we should deal with this and the DF Club will absolutely support this initiative, and this is a place to be ordered, because I doubt that they would go to Milic on their own and do something, which is certainly their purpose, i.e. their jurisdiction and their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9415	Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I don't think there's room for Parliament in this country to discuss human rights violations. I guess that's the elemental thing we should discuss in Milic, both in Banja Luka and Sarajevo. It was not discussed in Milic, it was not discussed in Banja Luka and is now being discussed in Sarajevo. It would probably not have been debated in Sarajevo if it had been discussed in Milic and Bnja Luka. And that's the whole point of this story. As far as I'm concerned, for me, I'm now returning to the conclusions, the first conclusion that speaks, means on the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman is the only one to deal with "Boksit“, the "Boksit“. I'd end up here with Boksit. What am I saying? The third conclusion, since the second conclusion is of general nature, would thus transform the third conclusion into the conclusion of the general nature, so I would not limit it to this, but I would say – The predstavnički of Representatives gives full support to the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their reporting of social and legal unacceptable behaviour, and is most strongly supporting the pressures they are exposed to. Namely, this debate can be held here on a specific case, but I think its results must be a conflict with the general practice that exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in Milic, and not only in "Boxit", and many firms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I would also change this third conclusion and in this way translate this debate out of debate about one company, in fact, in the discussion of many.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9417	MP Dušanka Majkić. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9418	I must confess, Chairman, that I thought that you would be, although you are in an awkward position, because you are also chairing and this proposal is coming from your party, that you will find a solution to stop this. Because if someone wanted to check all this out, there was a unique way. If you had given any of your MPs to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, you could have driven them to the finish line. I don't see any reason, nor is this the first, if it is, I don't know this man and I don't know what's going on either, or if it is all, let's say it's not the first, it's not the only, it's not the worst, and I don't know what's going on, but at the level that these things should be dealt with. If this is all true, isn't it the most logical that the National Assembly has talked about it? I have never felt more miserable and miserable in my life, I am ashamed to be an MP in a Parliament where this is how it is discussed. If it had been accompanied by acts that would talk about the position of metric institutions about it, I would have clearly been able to engage in all this debate, but in this way with newspaper clips or I don't know what, portals, so please, this is embarrassing. Don't let us continue to destroy this House's integrity, if anyone cares. It's embarrassing at this hour, we're gonna spend half an hour on audit reports, an hour, and we're talking about these things all this time. Please, I really expected that you would find a solution to get us out of this attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9419	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9420	gospoċo Majkić, I am offering a solution to stand behind the Ombudsman that the BiH Parliament is asking to protect workers and people whose rights are at stake.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9421	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9422	He can't, because there's no ombudsmen there.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9423	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9424	Please, please, you voted for the Ombudsman only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not in Republika Srpska. Therefore, the Ombudsman who is now performing the post has been elected in this House. We're asking this man to check all these allegations and you know very well that's all true.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9425	I don't know. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9426	As you don't know, I mean, don't, you're not in politics yesterday and you don't know who Rajko Dukić is. So here's a very simple thing, there's no argument here, we're not a court. We are merely asking here that the authority responsible for this be involved in the protection of human rights in the territory where they are threatened. Do you think the Ombudsman should not do business in the territory of Republika Srpska?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9427	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9428	That's right. And we're asking him to do his job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9429	Thank you very much. Lady Diana Zelenika, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9430	Thank you. I don't know who I'd like to replicate before, or my colleague, Majkić, who says she feels miserable, or the chairman who supports the ombudsmen's decisions. And now, from my point of view, what I was talking about, when there was an Ombudsman report on the agenda and when I set my own example, I couldn't agree with either one of them. You don't need to feel miserable, I've gone through all the things about taking away human rights and politicizing science in my situation. So, from Herzegovico-Neretva County, the government, the ministries of the relevant, all possible inspections, I sent a letter to the president of the Federation, who put it down to the Ministry of Health, sent a letter to the Minister of Justice, who sent it down, and I never got an answer from anyone. The politicalization of the ombudsmen's choice, and that's what I'm talking about. Because, in my case, for over a year, it was in the drawer, and that was it. Why? Because I, or my party, are not part of the parliamentary majority. That's why their recommendations aren't always great, because mine stood in the drawer and again, thanks to the parliamentary majority, the person most responsible for my case standing in the drawer was re-elected as an Ombudsman. What are we talking about? But if we're not going to be here, what my colleague Gasal-Vražalica-Devil said we have to fight for human rights, then I don't know who will, because this Miss Jelena, Miss Howl... already said, I've been able to read all this stuff that's happened, so obviously she couldn't exercise her rights at lower levels like I didn't. E, we must show that we are fighting for human rights in this House and I do not consider it a bit miserable.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9431	Okay, thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9432	I have to say that I am as surprised as we really are here, in the highest legislative body, we don't really understand what human rights mean at all, what human rights means, 74 what human rights are conceived, above all in the Charter of Nations, in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which is an integral part of our constitutional right, because we all know that half of these discussions wouldn't look what they looked like in the last minutes. Well, the fundamental thing is, that's why I got up first of all to say, human rights don't come true on the territorial-political principle, they come true transteriorally. If we went to this logic in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would probably have both Mr Dervo Sejdić and Jakov Finci attack on what they were suing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thousands of other applications from other countries to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Well, it doesn't work that way. So wherever we can, on every level, if we can make a move, if we can help endangered people, if we can raise our voice to protect human rights, we need to do it. Both here in Sarajevo and at lower levels, and of course, as we see and when we do not solve things in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9433	Thank you. Debate, Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9434	A pieceless thing that is in the description of what we are doing, which is the protection of the Constitution, and the Convention on Human Rights is an integral part of the BiH Constitution, we must elaborate and discuss, highlighted, show and do such things at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what part of it, cannot happen. I'm just afraid we're not going the wrong way. I see the Deputy Minister of Security has gone, I wanted to look him in the eye and ask him – by which law, who, how, and how can he have armed guards around the city, so if he's lying, the goat doesn't lie, we all saw it, not on one media, but on a number of media, as gunslingers around and around the city. Is that a private army? What are the security authorities doing now, SIPA, OSA, MUP and so on. Who are these people who can be so uninterrupted, is that perhaps part of our army? If not, is it part of the Home Office? Who are they? Next thing you know, by what law, how, and in what way can someone put in such a position that any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unless it's the prosecution, is going to a polygraph or voluntarily seek a polygraph? That's what I'm asking now, that's what it is. If that's the case, it'll start all employers using it. It's hard on us. Well, since we have employers, we probably will, too. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, Mr. Bosić, when are you going to hire someone to go on a polygraph? We need to know, these are the questions we need to discuss. That is what legislation is about to prevent such things from happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it privatisation to give into the hands of the whip and the claw and that people become slaves? Yes, it is, people have become slaves. If you talk you get fired, if you point out you're going to a lower job, if you're working in labs, you're stuttering, you're thinking, you're not working, if you write reference scientific papers, you're disturbing what you can't, and you don't know how to write them, and you're not worth it. These are the things we have to talk about, offered by this which, as an eclectic example, Miss Pandurević brought to us here. And it's a miracle that it's just her, all of us on that subject, everybody, because we live off those people who work there, we live, and Dukić enjoys it. That's a big 75 differences. Their work gives material good, and it gives the employer plenty. That's the difference. The sin of God, and I guess we're going to get a man who understands that in the revision, so he might also make a proposal to introduce a tax system... five Scandinavian countries in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. That would be best. So you would see how it would work. So the inheritance right on the property is only 10%, everything else belongs to the state because it's earned at work and it goes to the Social Fund. That's why they're social states. They've got where they came from. Because a man created a hardware store, his family only fell 10%, 90%, and they don't object, there's no insolence. But that's why we've been since '96. To date as Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a state, the owners of hundreds of yachts and the number of private aircraft is unknown. That's very interesting, you know. Specially the estate, villa, wonders, Beverli Hils, which has never been found in various locations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then the one who says, "Wait a minute, he's going for a polygraph." And then he's flogging. We forgot that nice expression, he says what it is, he says – my mom banged me. Now we have dads, but big dads who have slaves, and they can beat them up, like in the age of slavery, and then they'll probably go into reservations, and then some new enclaves will be created like Sierra Leone's enclaves or the state of the slaved slaves, so what Bog gives them is to bring them on ships, disembarks them, so what Bog gives them. I think we should start this topic, we need to talk on this subject because.../the ambassador warns that his time has run out.... Dukić. Dukić in Bosnia and Herzegovina has countless, countless, and we have to, that's the problem of the state, it's not the problem of the municipality, it's not the entity, it's the state. Thank you, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9436	Thank you. The next MP, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9437	Mr. Chairman. So, for me, it would be a logical debate on a very important issue that we instead of this material, which we received as prepared and which was the basis for supporting the inclusion of this item of the agenda, against which we voted, because it is dominant in the sphere of political debate and disagreement on some issue much more than on the fundamental issue of a very important institution, so the functioning of the Ombudsman institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, there is no dilemma, I am against the oppression of anyone in any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, any way, anyone, on any side. If we had a report from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ombudsman's institution on the violation of the human rights of any individual or group of people, including this story, which is now current, and a statement by politicians, and the media, and the individual, and the person to whom it relates, I would immediately demand that the Parliamentary Assembly insist on the absolute support of the report and respect for the recommendations made by the Ombudsman. Like this, I'm not sure we're gonna come up with the right solution. I am ten years in this House of Representatives, never before has this House of Representatives had the agenda point required to be respected, i.e. the Ombudsman's institution to determine human rights violations. Today we heard an esteemed colleague about the rights to use, the right to the national language, the use of the mother tongue at school. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have areas where diplomas are issued today without a group of cases because a group controls space and time, and that is exclusively there, are excluded items that are undesirable for education in this respect. The results of this and all other violations of human rights can be seen. If we had, recently we had a report from the Ombudsman Institution on the right to motherhood, 76 or... supplement, which is excellently clocked. I find it unacceptable to violate the human rights of mothers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That takoċe, I find it unacceptable to put pressure on the media. But I think so, and it is necessary for the media to have other people's attitudes when they publish. They must have because they are a major threat to human rights and the safety of people. I've heard about myself that the sky's vault couldn't read what the media was writing. And if any word of it were true at the same time that I'd stop doing any public work my whole life, he'd step away from everything and give all his property to it, if that's true. We must have as politicians a sensitivity to it. But it can't exclusively be protected by the media's right to be protected. All media must have that right or have the same relationship and equal responsibility for what they are doing. And when we talk about this case, he's, therefore, full of emotion and injustice, it's a tragedy if any of this is true. If you're asking me if she's got any rights... working, I don't think anyone has the right to violate the human rights of anyone in any form. But please, let's have an ombudsmen report. No Niko forbade me as Lazar Prodanović that I was looking for the Ombudsman's report on the case or some arrogant private who fired some pregnant woman who worked in that company, so she lost... But we have to have reports. We cannot have this kind of information as the basis for it, it loses its meaning and the integrity of this Parliament. Even assuming this is all true, we can't function like that. I really don't have any reserves, I'm against it, I'm talking right now,...any sense at all, but it must have a different approach. I'm not going to say whether, I would never suggest such a proposal in the agenda, nor would in that way... It's a waste of time for us. [[You don't understand.]] But right away I'm telling you, when the Ombudsman's report comes up, and this Ombudsman can't be anyone's, he would have to be independent and... and absolutely unbiased with arguments, then we would have, recently I was at a regional conference outside that talked about protecting human rights, we see in neighbouring countries that all recommendations are being respected, in Bosnia and Herzegovina they go invisible. So it is unacceptable for me to take this approach to this issue, not to dispute essentially the right to protect the human rights of every man, including the conclusions from which only a second conclusion could be acceptable. Both first and third are too biased, unobstructed and limited to only one group, and yet it is not in function... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9438	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9439	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we had a proposal for a agenda point coming from the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the president of one of the clubs, which speaks of very serious things in a very specific way. This, first of all, involves the responsibility of a representative who presented such things and such a proposal in Parliament. And I am starting from the fact that 42 of us here in this House are, above all, serious and responsible people and that by dawn, as our people would say, we do not decide to make such moves. And I, therefore, first of all, appreciate this situation and I mean, so responsibility, first of all, Lady Aleksandra Pandurević, for everything that is written here, and what is stated. But on the other hand, if I understand things that way, and when I look at the contents of what is said here, then I can't help but say that I'm amazed at what I've heard is happening 77 in that company and in that city, and I think that when one of the representatives consciously of all of this, what I've been talking about, he gets up here after the pay phone publicly, and he supports Parliament's proposal to become a part of the agenda, I can't help but react and see what we're going to do about this situation. I understand all those who said that we can't prejudge and we can't predeterminate things, but there's a way, and within these conclusions that are proposed, let's see what's really going on. And I have stood up for a pay phone to say, first of all, that the Ombudsmans have an obligation to make special reports, when Parliament asks them to, and here is the kind of special report, except for those general human rights reports in Bosnia and Herzegovina on all matters and in all areas. So, as far as these conclusions are concerned, I think they're on to what we need to adopt, see what's really going on. And not only in this case, in all cases, when a representative stands up, and decides, and says, because it is a big deal to be a member of this Parliament, of course, and responsibility. First of all, he's calling for a special report with me not putting this here in brackets and then respecting human rights. So it is said to be, to deliver a special report on no, in brackets, respect, therefore, of disrespect, or respect for human rights. I would say here about the situation instead of not respecting the word, the two words, so on the state of human rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ Milići, refering to the proposal of lawmakers in the state parliament adopted as a part of the agenda and discussed today. It would actually lead us in a position to look for a report and not to judge it, not to respect it, not to respect it, but to the state of human rights. And I think that Mr. Momčilo Novaković, on the trail of this, was well aware of this third conclusion and made his intervention sufficiently concrete, but basically abstract and general way, and that repairs should also be made in that direction when it comes to the third conclusion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9440	Thank you. Replica, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9441	I thank Lazare, because when I say great, you said great, we should. You just didn't go on, but they don't do what they're supposed to do, because we want to or not have parties over what's professional, or we would have to. Also, I'm hearing that everyone... is saying what I said - who are the armed people who walk the city and not the police? Security houses work all over the place, but I don't see any armed guards walking around the city, not on company circles. If that's true, why don't we talk about these things? Why don't we talk about who the houses are doing the polygraph interrogations of people are? By what law, in what way, how, who does that even allow them? If the doctors are going to start the polygraph now, he says his head hurts, let's go to the polygraph, you won't, I won't treat you. It is funny, Doctor, funny. Is that what this is? Do we live in a country where we can lead people to come up with rules of work, life and the right to motherhood? Maybe it'll be legally regulated as in China, so we'll have the right no more to two, not to one, not to three, but to say one-and-a-half children. Just how are we going to get this half, how are we going to do it in what way? Now, that's half what these guys are taking on. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9442	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9443	They make two, they get one half, right? There's Nikola when she did, but she really gave birth to a black one white in Split in the '80s.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9444	Please, Mr. Backović, time's up. Discussion, Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9445	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am starting from the fact that human rights and freedoms are undeniable and defined in our Constitution, that is, in an act that is directly and primarily applied, starting from the fact that we have both the right and the obligation and that we have made a statement that we will respect and protect human rights and freedoms, I will certainly try absolutely not to enter into any of the parties' debates, but to stick to the fact that we have been delivered, with the desire to protect the human rights and freedoms of each individual, because unfortunately in our country we have a violation of human rights towards many individuals and too much, I want to look briefly at a few facts. So, I'm going to stick to the fact that I'm not pre-judged, and then I'm going to get out of the fact that I'm going to make any suggestions or conclusions. In this, so I don't want to prejudge at all whether there was or wasn't, or judge, or anything, I want to discuss it in a way that I can touch the facts. The first one I would like to present is a document by Boksit“ in which the company's president invites 25 people to do a polygraph survey Friday 23.10.2015. I ask all of us, on the basis of which law or regulation is the president of a company, a stock company, an action society, authorized to conduct a polygraph examination of its employees? Is there a regulation? Is there an authorisation for any company or any form of business organisation, the right to conduct a polygraph examination? In what labour law does the management have the right to work? What my humble knowledge is saying, this kind of measure and examination has the right of law enforcement agencies, precisely prescribed, so police agencies, warrants, etc., and voluntary ones. The gentleman ordered a polygraph exam unfounded. I don't see any legal basis for that. The second fact, under the list of those 25 persons, says – called faces are required to come, required to come. I don't know on the basis of what powers he obliges 25 people to do the research and to access the polygraph. So they have to come. And then there will be a threat: refusal or non-come will be considered a violation of labour discipline and discipline will be initiated against them. This is a threat. First, it is doubtful whether, in accordance with the Labour Act and in accordance with the Rules on Working Relations and Discipline responsibilities in that company, the arrival of a polygraph examination is prescribed as an offence, so that there is a possible follow-up of proceedings and penalties. I am absolutely certain that it is not, because under existing legislation, economic operators do not have the authority to conduct polygraph tests. That thing can only be done by law enforcement agencies. These are the first facts I see from these materials. The second fact or the next, it is not important that I read now, is also an instruction from the president of the company which undertakes both former and current and future employees of the company that 79 read some three books he wrote and was eventually embellished that after summer vacations, during September and October, testing will be organised for all employees, so that through certain issues from the above-mentioned books, which will certainly be adapted to the structure of the employees' jobs, they will find out whether, not only understood the instruction, they have already accepted it as a need. And there I saw on the company's memoir there also has hospitality, and transportation, and woodworking and it is, now imagine a driver who works there whether he will read these three books, whether he will understand them and how he will be tested, or someone who is a welder, or one who cuts wood or a halves, and that, the poor man has to be bored in the fall when he comes and when he has to answer these questions. Now, I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but the point is, is that according to the Labour Act, the Regulation on the organisation and systematization of the company's business, for every job, it's meant to be a commitment to work in that company, to read those three books, to know them.../the ambassador warns himself that his time has elapsed... and to know how to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9446	You've gone down.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9447	I'll try again for a little while. The next fact is, is the House of Health a serious or easier injury to that person? And the next fact, did the MUP file a report on the crime? So I support that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore the Ombudsmans also determine whether human rights have been violated. The second so-called conclusion is acceptable, and the third one is, here's re-formed, that's what we got, so I support all institutions to protect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9448	Thank you, Mr. Rančić. The thing is, I can't really figure out that people, Mr. Špirić Replic, can't understand that people take seriously, what do you think your child might call some boss to question a lie detector?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9449	Now that we've stayed to the end and we're dealing with serious things like this, since I'm going to read you what document we have to discuss here, so he says -...or for a little bit of ass... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I'm reading you a document that we're making a decision on, and now it says here - it's a problem and with appetite it has less desire for a whale. And based on that we today...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9451	It doesn't make sense, Mr. Špirić. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9452	This is a document for Parliament, and you've got this as well as I have.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9453	Mr. Špirić. I know, I wouldn't expect you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9454	But just so the public knows what Parliament is discussing today. I'm for fighting, for protecting, for human rights. But gentlemen, the whole of Parliament on this document...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9455	Mr. Špirić, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9456	This is what I got as an MP...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9457	Well, I know, from you I'm not, you're still a highly educated man, hand over the kids to college, I think this is out, this is beyond any moral...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9458	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9459	Replica, Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am no one's spokeswoman here, but I quite confidently know why, in the hodogram of the activity, the distinguished Mrs. Pandurević did not, with her request, go to the Ombudsman's institution, because, as the former chairman of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, she has repeatedly convinced herself, as I am her deputy then and now a member, that the Ombudsman institution is working quite slowly. Quite slowly, but unfortunately I was bothered by the silence of all my colleagues when we discussed the Ombudsman's Institution when I was the only one, I think, abstentioned to their report. I don't agree with many of the things that happen at the Ombudsman Institution, either, but what happens here today is the bottom. So disrespect for human rights is evident in Bosnia and Herzegovina at every step, including in BiH institutions. And I appreciate the good intention of trying to raise the level of protection of human rights to an adequate level, and absolutely with all my heart I support, even such a discussion of Mr. Prodanović and colleagues who say we should also have an institutional framework for the protection of human rights. Although they do not have the opportunity to give a legal remedy, it is therefore pointless to answer the Ombudsman's institution when it arrives and, if it is adjudicating, it will be pointless and we know it. It is also pointless that the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights receives complaints from citizens because there is no possibility of any recommendation or legal remedy. So we are in a circuit that we have to change the Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure in which the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights will in some way react to such harsh and terrible violations of human rights. But, as 81 women, as a mother, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I couldn't really expect these lyrics to be spoken... as a pornographic, terrible text that came to us here in the bench, it's terrible, it's horrible that employees, women in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are threatened with their sexuality and the fact that they can be mothers and because they have reproductive properties and can be mothers. And this gentleman who's been mobing, if that's how it's proved to be, he was born by his mother, and he has a mother, and maybe he has a wife, and maybe he has a child, a girl, a daughter. I, on behalf of these daughters, on behalf of the mothers, on behalf of the women of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where I am asking you as chairman, very much to appreciate your political experience and your good intentions, and the intention of proposing, including all my colleagues, and my esteemed fellow physician, humanists, please stop this discussion after this. Otherwise, I will not attend a further session of Parliament, and I do not want to be insubordination, I very much appreciate your good intentions and the intentions of all colleagues. Don't let this woman of Bosnia and Herzegovina be so hot. I'm asking you nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9461	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. I can only appeal to two reps that we don't move on. If you want to quit...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9462	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9463	Mr. Novaković? BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9464	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9465	This concludes this point. So, before we move to item 6 I propose that a joint debate on points 6 to 78 of the agenda, given that it is the reports of the BiH institutions' audit office for the financial audit for 2014. Please prepare to vote. Due to technical problems, we repeat the vote. Here's your vote again. For 25, v. 3, abstention 1. So there's been a motion to unify the dots. Ad. Six. - Ad. 78. Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2014 At the beginning, I would like to invite the chief auditor, Mr. Vrankić, to speak briefly on this subject. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9467	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected MPs, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Here, it gives me the pleasure of speaking to you, so I can welcome you and thank you for your confidence. At your last session, me and my colleague, Krsman, we got your trust. ... thank you... on my behalf and his name and I personally feel honored with this very important and respectable function that I have received. Cooperation with Parliament... was at an envious level, we were communicating, the Office communicated with you, and through you and with the public and there is no reason not to remain and in the future so and I think there are some other things we can do to improve in the next period. Let me just have a few... since we took over the office yesterday, but since the office is well organized here I can say a few words on behalf of my colleagues. That in this audit covered by the 2014 budget, 75 institutions amounting to 906,5 million marks were employed by 22,393 employees, that the Office audited 74 institutions and carried out 8 impact audits. Opinions were next, purely positive – 31 institutions, with a positive focus - 36 institutions, 1 with a reserve and 5 with a distraction. When it comes to recommendations, a total of 460 recommendations are made, it is 17 less than in the year before 2014, the rate of implementation of recommendations between 50 and 60% which, in some ways, we can say somewhat satisfied, but it must be even better. The recommendations can be found in two groups in fact. It is one that applies directly to institutions, and most of these recommendations are more or less implemented and the other group of recommendations, those which are systematic nature require, means, action through several institutions and through the action of several forms of adoption and adoption of regulations. ... recommendations relating constitutionally to internal controls, the adoption of me by international accounting standards, the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, the implementation of decisions and conclusions of this Parliament, the recommendation of the revision and perhaps more, but here are only those that are basic. The task of the revision is, in fact, to spot and diagnose the problem through its reports to Parliament, i.e. the public. Reports are a fact of responsibility. The audit office is not a repressive body, it's a responsibility that, you know, can be multilayered, can be, I don't know, public, political, disciplinary, can be criminal responsibility, depending on what's been missed in that work or what's been done as a misdemeanour. And I think the success of a society is just being organized through a developed awareness of responsibility. If there are responsibilities then every year there will be fewer recommendations and the system will be organised, if there is no responsibility then our reports will be in vain, your attitudes and that state will then strive to ride out and dissatisfaction, and then, in such circumstances, I think it's too much to talk about. We've already made a schedule for the next period or for this year, we've started a new cycle of revisions. 74 institutions will be audited, 6 audits will be impacted, and I think that through one co-operation with Parliament, which has been so far, we need to be even better, I think we will be pleased with all of us to raise our system for another step towards better, and I think we will also meet our expectations in this way. Thank you very much, cheers. I stand by all the explanations that will be needed along with my staff that are found.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9468	Thank you. 83 I am obliged to inform the House of Chronology. So the financial audit reports of BiH institutions for 2014 were submitted on 10 and 14.07.2015 and included in the delivery agenda. On 10.11.2015, the Commission responsible for Finance and Budget submitted a summary opinion on the financial management audit reports of the BiH institutions for 2014, with a proposal for conclusions. The first group of reports are reports with an audit positive opinion – 31 institutions and a positive opinion with an emphasis on the case – 36 institutions. The second group of reports consists of reports with an audit opinion with a reserve – 1 institution and an opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the subject – 5 institutions and reports on which the BiH Institutions Audit Office points to the Commission to pay special attention when considering. The second group's reports were discussed by the Commission with a public statement from the representatives of those institutions at a regular session. In addition to these six reports, the Commission has also decided to consider an audit report on the financial operations of the BiH Direct Taxation Board, which received an audit positive opinion with the emphasis on the case. So, the Commission has discussed in detail the reports on the financial operations of 7 Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and this: the BiH Ministry of Defence, Foreign Affairs, the BiH Foreign Ministry, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange, the Agency for Labour and Employment and the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH. For these 7 reports, the Commission has drawn up specific opinions which form an integral part of the summary opinion and contained in each of these conclusions which provide for certain obligations for the institutions. In addition to these conclusions, it is also proposed to adopt the following conclusions: 1. The House of Representatives accepts 73 audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH institutions for 2014 of which: (a) 66 audit reports of an institution whose financial operations have been assessed by an audit positive opinion and a positive opinion with the emphasis on the subject (Annex 1 of the Summary Opinion); (b) 7 audit reports of an institution whose financial operations have been assessed by an audit opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the subject and 1 positive opinion with an emphasis on the subject (Annex 2 of the Summary of Opinion). 2. The House of Representatives obliges the management of 36 BiH institutions whose financial operations in 2014 have been assessed by an audit-positive opinion with the emphasis on taking all necessary measures from the competence of each institution individually to avoid further consequences of the business problems which the audit has drawn attention to in its positive opinion, and in particular that the materiality of such findings of the audit does not possibly miss the future qualification in the subsequent audit reports. 3. The House of Representatives adopts the Commission's proposed conclusions for the 7 BiH institutions contained in the Commission's individual opinions on each BiH institution whose audit reports on financial operations for 2014 were the subject of a detailed analysis in the Commission (Annex 2 of the summary opinion). 4. The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider, no later than the end of February 2016, audit reports for 2014 with an emphasis on 7 BiH institutions whose audit reports on financial operations for 2014 have been evaluated by an audit opinion with the reserve, opinion with the emphasis and subject-matter reserve and 1 report with a positive opinion with the emphasis on the subject as well as the corresponding conclusions set out in Annex 2, with the obligation to make up the full information on it, and 84 its submission to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within no longer than 30 days of the date of consideration, which will contain the following minimum: 4.1. Programmes of activities and measures to be taken in those 7 institutions listed in Annex 2 in the direction of overcoming difficulties in business and preventive action so as not to repeat them in the following reports; 4.2. Declaration by the Council of Ministers on the system measures proposed by the Office for Audit referred to in points 3d) from 1 to 18 of the Assembly Opinion, which would eliminate the causes of repeated audit findings at the systemic level; 4.3. Declaration by the Council of Ministers of BiH in the programme format with the holders of obligations and deadlines for the implementation of activities aimed at strengthening the control environment, the adoption of new regulations or the addition of existing rules, set out according to the categories of expenditure referred to in points 3e) from 1.1. to 1.1.13. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. A summary opinion. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9469	Well, I first came forward as chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget and I just wanted to do what the chairman did. Since the chairman has made very detailed statements of the Committee on Finance and Budget I will only use this short time, not to repeat what you said and what is important as in this part, to say, since I always try to look at things on the better side, today we have delivered black things and said and said and saw, within these audit reports through all these past years I will warn you of one, on two table views of these reports that still say something. This is a table report, I don't know, you're not looking at it, so I'm going to convince you, a chart that shows the growth of those reports with a positive opinion over the last six or seven years. The second graph, of course, shows the decline of those reports with, whether they are negative or expressed with the reserve. This chart, which is very optimistic though, does not show the real, fully realistic state of the audit reports and the state of budget spending, because one other chart shows what the total budget value is for those budget users who have a positive audit report and for those who have an audit report with a reserve in 2014. It is characteristic that they are generally more money-spent budget users, these few ministries, which have a huge amount of money mainly in this reserve category. But what I would like to highlight as a positive value came out of the 2014 audit reports, that for the first time the amount of the budget money of those budget users who have a positive opinion had revised the amount of money of those budget users who have reserve reports for the first time in 2014. And I would really like it to be at this time today at the end, I would say, day, even though not at the end of our working day, I say, within this, something positive, that over the last 7 or 8 years continued financial discipline in BiH institutions, I would say, by a mild step, but still improving. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9470	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9471	Thank you very much. First, let me thank you for the good co-operation so far with the current general auditor and vice-general auditor who finished their seven-year term and wish for at least as good cooperation with the new members of the management of the Office for Auditing, in the hope that we will at least be as successful as we have been so far. Here, you heard the chairman of the Commission, he said some of the elements that talk about what it looked like. In 2008, the competent financial committee and the budget of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted guidelines for reviewing and analysing audit reports, and from that moment on, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has a unique approach to the processing of audit reports. Not one, not a single parliament in the wider, still, and a closer environment doesn't do it this way. So one huge power and energy is invested. I therefore have to thank again... who has made it possible for this project to come to life, while thanking USAID, who is today monitoring that project in the way it allows MPs, within the Commission for Budget and Finance, and then in the Parliamentary Assembly, to do the job in the best possible way. It took us a lot of time, we started with 2% of positive reports in 2003, we climbed up for some bigger ones, we only recorded bigger numbers in 2010 when there was a number of positive reports about 30%, and here, now you've heard how this situation changes. It's not good yet, there's still something to do here, but if one significant step was made, it's done. What's left of our biggest problems, and that's something we've been dealing with for years, and we haven't found the answer to why that is. First, the audit office forgot that there's something called a negative opinion. A negative opinion unlike the entity audits of the audit offices only did it once, seems to me to the Ministry of Defense, and no one ever got negative again. I've been trying to figure out what the threshold is... that deserves someone to get a negative opinion and I've never figured it out. Then I heard that a lot of auditors weren't allowed to find out, so now in the meantime, I'm comforting myself. However, there are still very serious problems that the review of the years sees, so with the largest number of qualifications institutions related to missing internal rules and missing regulations and laws. Well, you watch what that means, you don't have a condition to work. And that revision keeps mentioning it. These are the systemic matters that the Council of Ministers must arrange. As much as Parliament has heard you have tortured the chairman to read a large report, you have seen what it looks like, what a report it is, there is no help no matter how much Parliament insists, how many audits it is doing, how much Parliament insists on it, until it happens that the Council of Ministers does their part of the job. So far, the Council of Ministers has never analysed the audit reports. No, then we talk to ourselves every year. The second is qualifications related to the area of public procurement. We've been saying for years that our law is problematic, so we've passed a new law. There is still a problem in public procurement, and there is an outflow of most of the funds and these are the greatest chances and opportunities for corruption. So it's a priority that needs to change. There's got to be an annual procurement plan, so we wouldn't be doing what's happening to us. 86 Qualifications related to... and budget planning. This is the only Parliament that only sees the budget once. Afterwards, such turns and changes are being made so that we can see what happened the moment the budget comes before us. No country can do that. The moment they go through parliamentary control and stop there, there is no force that could change one point in the budget. Finally, weaknesses in carrying out a list of assets, assets, sources of funds related to internal controls, etc., etc. So there's something that's also called the inconsistency of the audit. We've had, as you've seen, six institutions that have received an opinion with a reserve or an opinion with an emphasis on the subject. All these institutions have a different complexity and weight of sin, which, under the quotes of sin, puts on their souls the Office for Audition. But let's say the Ministry of Defence as Bosnia and Herzegovina's largest institution, it deserves special monitoring by the Commission for defence and security. Because the sooner and more successful we finish, the more I looked at how the Department of Defense ended, the more than 11 recommendations from the Office for Auditing, the four were under way, the 14 were not realized. .../a message is warned that her time has run out... And that wouldn't be too bad, I'm finishing up, 35 new ones got in 2014. The question is of so many recommendations whether the institutions will be able to complete it. We've sent, hyperinflation is recommended. I think that these recommendations should be discussed, I think we should make a joint meeting with both finance and budget committees and discuss all the open issues that we... I hope so, and I hope that, as we have done so far, we will cooperate well on this plan. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9472	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9473	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the new auditors on taking over their duties, wishing for success in their work and having fewer problems, even with the implementation of this Public Procurement Act. I don't know how much really financial discipline the institution has improved, how many employees have learned a little better to book and cover all these shortcomings, but I have to notice what my colleague Majkić said that there is inconsistency in these reports. I may not be directed enough, I may not know enough, but it is, for example, unclear and illogical for the Foreign Ministry to get an opinion with the reserve and to draw their attention to: which has not been passed by the Foreign Affairs Act, which is a purely political decision and we are responsible for what they use fax in documents, which have contracts on work, and they have an opinion with the reserve. On the other hand, when you read the report of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, you come across a very serious violation of the Public Procurement Act, and this is positive. Here, I'll list just some, two examples at the Directorate for indirect taxation that the auditors have seen, it's building the border crossing of Gradiška. First, one bid, 6 offers, 5 meets the conditions, the most favourable 4 million, so it's said – but we don't have money for the second phase. Then they say, “We wrote to the Ministry of Finance, and they said that they will have in mind the Budget for the next year.” Look out, not that they're going to provide, but they're going to have to keep in mind for next year. After that, second repeat procedure is called, 3 consortiums only 1 offer complete and this “Predator roads” – 6.9 million. Of course, the procedure was annulled because the number of eligible offers received was less than 3,87 niskogradnja-Breeding Laktaš – 6.3 million. Well, I guess when it's estimated how much about, since 8.5 million was allowed to go on a shake-up call from the Niskogradnja-grading Laktaš, it means within two months, it's a $2.1 million offer, and this time it's the most favourable offer, and of course it gets the job. On the Commission we asked how it was possible, people from the Administration. They say, "Spoiled gravel because of the flood." The floods, and when the previous tender was after May of the month, so in July there was a previous tender, impossible that the gravel had just accumulated by 2.1 million. I was not lazy, and I checked everything possible, or our chiefs were in charge of all possible gravel and quarrys, from Gradiška to Bijeljina we checked, through Doboj, nowhere, the same price of gravel was in April, and in July, and in September of last year, and today is the same price. The next grudge was the procurement of the Regional Centre here in Sarajevo where the condition of the tender was that the building was located 2 km from this building. I asked – why is that, they explained to us from the Department of indirect taxation that it was because of the configuration of the terrain, they needed it to be straight, etc. So please, 2 km from this building is also the Grbavica of arms and Vrats which are in the hill and Rajlovac is in the straight. I don't see why it was a problem to get that building in Rylovac. And in that, of course, we had a repetition here too. Of course, in the second call here, as the auditors noticed the specification of the space was significantly altered because it was obviously the one who had to get that 14 million and buy his building and, as the auditors noticed, it seems to me that I was wrong whether the minimum square was 2,300 squares, and yet it was bought 2,125. So it went under... under the terms of the tender. I think that someone should answer for this and that this is something that the BiH Prosecutor's Office should do. The next report that's traditionally bad is, and this one, here... before I finish, the I.D.A.'s report. The purchase of ID cards where it turns out that it wasn't paying 30% on an advance basis anymore, but that the advance payment was over 64.57%, meaning someone in advance, and that we were then, that a tender for passports was called to be again within 2 km of IDDEEA's right passports. I asked, "Why is that?" They said for safety. I will tell you that the same company... in Serbia is making passports and that it is located in Old Paz. So someone in Lermont's extracting a passport, by the same technology, gets it, in Old Paz's print. Our money, which we also take care of security, is printed in France. But apparently this condition was supposed to be preferable to someone who had already had this famous contract with Milbauer, or Mites, for the printing of ID cards and documents. I am asking here that we appeal and that perhaps as a conclusion from here we send, to assist the current minister of civil affairs, to call on the prosecution, which has already come forward and said it is leading the investigation into this matter, to end this investigation as soon as possible, because if this ends with the prosecution and the verdict of the Minister of Civil Affairs, we will facilitate business to end illegal contracts. I'm sorry the D.A. is a trombone and he's been doing this investigation for over a year, but here's the first year they've been working means they've got something to do. They didn't immediately close the investigation as unfounded. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9474	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, he has a word. Here you go, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9475	By Bog, this is injustice, I'm alone from the political option, so I have to, what I'm going to do, and I know I'm bored, but I hope I'm saying what I really need to say. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9476	As long as you're within the borders of the Rules of Procedure you can't be boring to know. Feel free to exercise it. It's your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9477	Well, it's not my right to harass anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9478	Within the borders of the Rules of Procedure, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9479	It's not in accordance with human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9480	Here, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9481	Okay, a little joke, yeah. Audit reports, of course you gentlemen have come and I hope you will appreciate what I'm about to say. This all looks like, when you ask someone how and he says it can, but trust me, it can do this, and you know it could do this. So I wonder how many MPs here, or MPs, or the people's will of elected national representatives, have the right to a paid phone. How many of you here have the right to do that? I don't. It wouldn't be bad for us to know that. Because you come to a miracle, you know. I have to hang up now because I don't see well, so I can tell you what I mean. Where are these audits, then we have the Anti-Doping Control Agency. Have you read how many people are entitled to the official phone? Did the audit see that? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What kind of rule is it that everyone has an official phone? Oh, please, ma'am. That means, let's get those rules. How much fuel does a car spend per 100 km? I'm very simple to calculate, you've, it's dry, spent as much fuel as this. And that's all right. Everyone's got tickets to the transport except the director. Have you seen how many miles a day they travel? According to what's been presented, they cross daily, a day, 250 km, 250 km. Pick it up. Well, gather the travel expenses, the living room, and the rest, so there are some illogicalities. Well, you can have a positive opinion by tomorrow. Or the official phones at one agency, not to open one by one, 32,948, official phones. Share the months and you'll see what it is. It's really amazing. It's just amazing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9484	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9485	So if you're in a bad hurry, let me finish everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9486	You see, you've been almost a minute now, so let's finish if you want to think, but I'm embarrassed to interrupt you all the time. Please take within the time...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9487	These are the biggest holes, the special thing is that it is not controlled in the finality of the contract, agreed – done, so you will see how many differences are made in the contracted – executed. Those pins that are made that way are easily controlled, except they won't control them. A long time ago, Fidik and the EU adopted the principle and way of accessing tenders, but gentlemen will not. It's nice to get the money that doesn't belong to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9488	Thank you. Replica, MP Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9489	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect to my esteemed colleague, Backović, I wanted to say that the exact details you presented for the Anti-Doping Control Agency are not correct. I mean, please, so I wanted to say, so here the costs and expenses of telephone and postal services have been achieved, so on fixed phones 2,680 and mobile phones 3,200 and only three people have. And it's true... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9490	90 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9491	I'm sorry, that's what I'm saying because it's embarrassing for someone to abuse right now. I know, I've looked at the report, and it's embarrassing if you're bringing out information that can create delusions in the appointed ones. I'm not protecting them, the director or anything, and I have to say that this review report is quite correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9492	Thank you Replica, MP Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9493	Dear colleague, I'm most likely mistaken. Now I'm going to tell you, now I'm going to need every single one of these reports, I've read every one of them, believe me. And here you have...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9494	Not everyone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9495	I've read each and every one of them, but now I have to look. So this way, the employees - 20, this much, this much, the director-approved 100 marks, plus the special costs and so on, just so that now in order, please, everyone has a right, 100% everyone. So 23 official phones. It's possible it's also anti-doping, I just have to check it out, I didn't say which one it is, one it is, let me. Here, I'll look into it now, so I'll tell you, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9496	Okay, thank you. We'll figure it out. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9497	I thank the chairman. Maybe I should have given up while Agent Backović on this. So, at the very beginning, I have to express my gratitude to the audit on a well done job. I really thank them for that. Revisioning 74 institutions with more than 22,000 employees is indeed one huge job. In this way they worked, which I must say, was in some way also subject to the Finance and Budget Commission and where the Finance Commission and the budget of a designated institution checked in its own way, of course in its own way, we came to the conclusion that this commission, or this revision, was really good. What's interesting here is that since 2008 we've introduced this audit. Its progress, the rapid progress in achieving a positive atmosphere, positive business, etc., is really visible. What concerns me in particular is a large number of recommendations that this commission, or revision, has recorded. These recommendations, therefore, are minor errors or major errors that occurred in the business of certain users, and they are therefore not all eliminated, 91 are not all removed. That's the problem with this committee. Why do I say they're not all removed? So in some ministries, therefore, certain recommendations have been repeated for as many as 4-5 years. So it's incomprehensible. I purposely stated that it was under the Swedish Government programme, recently I was in Sweden, so where we were just discussing this topic that recommendations from previous years were not respected in the next period. They simply could not explain it, it is not clear to them that the recommendations made by the audit are not to be carried out during a previous period, i.e. in the future accounting period. What is particularly important to me is that the internal audit system in the budget users has failed a lot. There is therefore no efficient internal audit system and these are those that should prevent abuses, illegal business, etc., so that auditors have a more solid review. A large number of recommendations are applied in this way, and this is not mentioned here, so doing business through an act contract, where the auditors have found it. The biggest problem, in my opinion, is certainly the restructuring of budget positions. This Parliament brings the budget, someone has made a good point before me, brings the budget, now in what way, by emergency procedure, one way or another, but we, this Parliament sees the budget then and never again. Restructuring budget users' positions is a very dangerous thing. Why? Because you have one amount and then you transfer that amount from position to position. I think we should work this out. We would have to solve for a number of reasons, because if this Parliament has adopted a budget then it is logical and to monitor its implementation, that is, its implementation. So we bring the budget to one position, and the money is spent completely in another position, and this budget has no insight into it, i.e. Parliament has no insight into it until the debate on the implementation of the budget itself. So we're coming into a position that brings the budget to someone in particular within the items to transfer money. So it's observations, it's also auditors in their reports, although I think it should have been much more pronounced. So, I think we should work on the next thing. Of the 460 recommendations is a small number, everything seems to me to have been established, only 50% of them realised from the previous period. What are the consequences if these recommendations are not carried out? .../Employee warns that his time is up/... So we, if it's negative, no one has consequences, if it's a positive opinion we don't have positions. I suggest we bring in some, just one more sentence, so we bring in some sanctions. It is not possible to pass sanctions, but it is possible that the budget users who have done negative business, who have a negative opinion, will be able to bring forward a boom of the realization of that opinion. So, before this Parliament, to go behind for a pay phone and say how these recommendations should be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9498	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Please, Mr. Backović, try in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9499	With my due apology for the mismentioned, this is about the Anti-doping Control Agency where all the official phones are available. So, here I am, sorry I said wrong, and what agency, if I caused them mental pain, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9500	92 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9501	Antidoping control.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9502	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9503	Well, he's standing right here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9504	Come on, please don't have a discussion about me to you, please, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9505	Let me read it, please read this just, it's a second one.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9506	Mr. Backović, the MPs themselves will read. hajati on, Mr. Prodanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9507	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9508	He's giving up. Discussion, MP Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9509	Mr. Chairman. Well, more of an explanation for Mr. Backović than I ever wanted to discuss. We are today considering audit reports and financial operations of institutions for 2014. That's what you need to know, now it's the end of 2015. Why do I want to point this out? It is precisely because of the fact that it is just about the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions that the Council of Ministers has adopted internal acts on the use of official cars, telephones and representations. And the application of these internal acts, Mr Backović, was announced for January 2015, so that we do not have the effect of these internal acts in the audit reports we are currently talking about, which means that these previously observed shortcomings have produced the production of these internal acts and the effects of these internal acts we will have in the 2015 audit reports. And then these things won't happen around these cell phones or car abuses, representations, etc. We're actually going to see it through new audit reports and I think it's going to be one, per se, positive shift. Furthermore, we also mention the Law on Public Procurement, and we also know when it was adopted, a small effect on this revised period. What is needed and what is the obligation of the Council of Ministers and here is indicated as one of the essential activities, the essential measures proposed by the Office for Audit is to produce these sublegal acts under the Public Procurement Act. All those, meaning changes that...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9510	May I have your attention, please, I know you're tired, let's hear it. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9511	The creation of sublegislative acts, i.e. the application of these sublegal acts related to these Rules of Procedures on the use of official cars, telephones and representations, means we will have in 2016. What matters to me is to point out here that, in my opinion, it is very important that the Council of Ministers, meaning to implement Conclusion 4, which is to carry out an analysis, by the end of February 2016, an audit report and then act on these three points that are listed below, that I do not repeat them, and that he read them to the chairman. Or what is further important to me, when we have that analysis, to act on glava v of the zbirni opinion, which is to control the implementation of the recommendations. And then if we follow this sequence of events, or if the Council of Ministers first, and then in the next phase as a House of Representatives, together with the Office of Audit, we take over our obligations, I think we will now have these audit reports in 2015, and certainly for 2016, we will have far more quality, perhaps even these seven conditional reports that have a reserve, to make it positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9512	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9513	Well, I will only make one small contribution to this agenda point, although most of my colleague Salko Sokolović's discussion has touched and, in some ways, mentioned what I wanted to say. I mean, what am I saying here about... not repeating ourselves, right? For years we have these audit reports, there are 74 institutions, we have impact audits, and we always sort of go over these audit reports the same way quickly. At the time, I was an advocate of the idea of seeing these 74 directors or responsible persons responsible for spending money in these institutions. So I was also an advocate to have some session, whether in two parts or one group of these institutions to be here, and then another group or in some way, mostly to see these people. I've been five years, here's a second term in Parliament, and believe me, I don't know if anyone would tell me these are these 74 directors in charge of a man, if maybe a couple of them would know. What do I mean? It is very important that these people hear parliamentary discussions. They dobići receive in writing the views of the Commission, in writing our conclusions. And in some ways, when we look at for years, the same comments are made in those who have a positive opinion and an opinion with an emphasis on the subject and these, if it was a negative opinion, there was once, there was always the use of the phone, the use of official vehicles, the large lease of these institutions, the powers, some great powers of individuals, etc. What's going on in here with me as a general question? How much energy do we spend? Look, we have auditors, we have internal auditors, we have MPs and most of our questions, when we look, MPs go towards these institutions, how much energy we spend just to keep these people responsible for these 74 institutions, to work under the law. So we need to find some modus. We're going to have the same review again, we're going to have the hearing again, and we're going to have the same conclusions again. And we'll always get over it. And when I look at it, I really wonder if we need to find some new modulus in the revision itself and a modus in the system of responsibility to sharpen that system of responsibility. Why? I have a feeling, here we have the new first people in the Audit Office, I have a feeling that some institutions aren't the same criteria. That's us on the Commission, I'm not going to say that 94 is looking at who the political parties are from, but that I feel that they are not the same criteria in giving business reviews and financial conditions in individual institutions. Knowing the new auditor and knowing all the jobs he's been doing, I expect it to be better in the coming period, but also to be some new methodology in the work. I'm not going to be pulling some data here right now, let's just say the Foreign Ministry where I asked two questions, the Ministry that's really specific, that works without basic two normative acts, I'm not just going to mention the leases of individual embassies, I'm not going to mention some examples here that we could talk about topics and topics about. And believe that's the way it is in most of the institutions. And who's on the record for these 42 people. And what Zaim Backović said, look at these 74 institutions how many people are in charge of cell phones, how many people are in charge of official cars. So look here at me and our colleagues, how many of us are there? We don't need to, but they don't need to be there, they need to be aware of a certain measure. Here's so much, I think we need to support these conclusions of the Finance Commission, the new responsible people in the audit to hear our voice and the next revision to make it even better, better and sharper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9514	Thank you. Ambassador, we have a replica of Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9515	Comrade Fazliću, I know you know this, but you didn't want to say it now. When will things start to change? Then when this Parliament refers to the audit reports differently. Then when we have the strength to replace someone because they don't work the way they should. Then if someone were sanctioned, punished by any kind of punishment, if he were punished for what he didn't do and what he hasn't done for years, and for what he is, we don't have the right to blame anyone but us. The Minister's advice will only work if it has to. The executive power will work if Parliament forces him to do so. Obviously, we didn't have the mechanism to force him. Let's see if we can get that for the next audit report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9516	Thank you. Ambassador Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9517	I thank the chairman. You're neither the first nor the last to sin on my name. I welcome everyone here, of course, and I'm really going to be very, very short. I haven't read all the audit reports, but I've tried to read, I think, a 10-year review report concerning agencies and institutions that were the subject of the Joint Commission on Economic Development under the Council of Ministers' report we had last year. And of those ten institutions, one of them got this opinion with the reserve. I personally wonder, based on what was written there in that report, half of them not 95 would get it, but I'm not an auditor and I wouldn't, my criteria are quite different. And this isn't why I answered. I've heard a lot since the last 2-3 debaters. I may have a real sector problem and the way it's seen in the real sector. You do something good, you do it successfully, that's why you're rewarded, when you do something wrong, then you're sanctioned for it. I would like to have one instruction from the Council of Ministers, one rule on which we will determine and determine the real impact and real work of the people who run these institutions, which would include audit reports. Let's say, what do recommendations mean when someone doesn't respect them, what are the sanctions? Was there, as well as reports from commissions that discuss the reports of these institutions and that one sublimation based on which to either stimulate these people or naturally destimulate, in the end, what we have already heard, and replace. I think it's the kind of approach that I say again, maybe it's something of mine, to take away some kind of professional, but that's how I see these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9518	Thank you, Mr. Safere. Deputy Chairman Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9519	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think the time has come for us to seriously consider in Bosnia and Herzegovina the methodology for reviewing the Office's review report. First of all, I congratulate the newly elected management, and I wish him success in his work, and our well-known colleague from the last assembly is at the head, and he, like everyone here, knows what I'm talking about. Look, there used to be a social accounting service that had the opportunity to file a criminal report, a criminal report, when the report was wrong. And today there are institutions that can do that, but there's no financial institution that does this job and has these powers and there won't be one. The audit isn't that, the revision is something else, it's something new that we've been getting used to here since 2001. The person who taught us here, I am always grateful for it, in 2001 is formerly the general auditor of Norway, vice-president of their Parliament, Minister for..., sir, I think, Sven Ludvigsen. I think the time has come for us to take a step forward to see what and how with the audit reports. In other words, the question is – what should we do to make those who have made the problem in their work bear responsibility? I know it would be ideal for Parliament to make a decision if it were a negative report several times or, I don't know, if it was once to replace such a person. We have a problem with that, so we know that, so it's got to be done with politics, but I think every time it starts with the first step. First thing we need to do, I don't think we should ever put 70 and some reports on one session again. So that's one thing. Yesterday I heard from one of my colleagues a smart idea, she mentioned, so here in Parliament, which is that we should specifically consider reports that are negative. On the one hand, all the reports, on the other hand, those who have a reserve, which are negative... have some problems, we can classify them in the way that the review is doing, and we can consider the report by report. Let's call the responsible person from the institution, the auditor here for the pay phone, the chairman of the commission in place, and the responsible person in place and then from remark to remark. And let the public know, if anything, the public knows where the problem is. We have today had some 96 attempts, mentioning some institutions that went for access to this methodology, but of course it is not possible when 70 reports or around 70 reports are on Wednesday. That's why I'm going to propose, first of all to our College, it's up to us now to organise it, and the Office of the Auditor-General and I'm giving this Commission a thought that this is how we start to discuss the reports in the future. We are all professionals, we hold two sessions a month, if two, here the last two months have been one, we should be ready to work every day, maybe think about changing the way Parliament works. It doesn't have to last a session in the morning from 10 a.m. to 10 o'clock in the evening, it can be from 10 to 17, then again the next day, and then the next day, and so on. So, we have something to do if we want the job we're in charge of to start dealing with the way we're supposed to. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9520	Thank you. Is that Mr. Sokolović's replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9521	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not just a replica to Mr. Džaferović, it's Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Demirović. Look, I don't normally like the life of this demagogue story. It is available in the means of information and can be downloaded by the Financial Report of the Agency for Identification Documents. Someone responsible in this country, which is the D.A.'s office, that's the D.A.'s superfluous, should have studied matter, so he could suggest it to the judiciary or not to propose it. So there are mechanisms if they want to activate. The question is who won't allow it. And here, brother, to be clear, I've at least tried to point out that problem so far. And that's that political bosses have their own political favorites and install them into certain positions. How do we replace them? How do we replace them? Here, you tell me how we're gonna replace them? What are we going to put here, then criticize them for three days, and then the fourth day someone will say, don't touch them. So these are demagogue stories. We need to set up an honest relationship in this country with people who operate certain institutions and thus improve the state, not cover some, and then, there, when we take the microphone, we talk about something that can't be achieved in public. That's what I needed to say for who knows which way, because I think that only in this way through the responsibility of individuals who manage certain institutions, not only Bosnia and Herzegovina's state, but also lower levels of both entities and cantons, we can improve, strengthen Bosnia and Herzegovina and bring good citizens to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9522	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9523	Just for a little while. It's not the only way to shift, buddy, there's another way and there's political responsibility, there's disciplinary responsibility. When did we start any of these? There are 97 different kinds of responsibilities. The trouble is, when the Finance and Budget Committee calls, for hearings, institutions that got opinions with the Reserve, you know who's coming? The director of institutions doesn't come, the accounting chiefs come or the lower level. And that's why they'd have to be here, here they are now, the review will now be doing this preliminary audit, at the end of the year the previous audit will be completed. In January, we should know exactly these six institutions with a reserve of what they've done, whether they've removed anything from those recommendations they've received. And here to reach Parliament. So here's the way it can be found, but we haven't shown our readiness so far. It was easier for us to discuss 80 institutions at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9524	Thank you. Sefer Demirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9525	It's a mistake again. Safer. You mispronounced my name.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9526	Tell Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9527	Well, I said Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9528	It didn't sound like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9529	And you didn't hear, no, no, this time I was careful to say it right, but it seems to you, you're used to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9530	It doesn't matter, probably. Thank you. I'm going to rephrase to the gentleman, my esteemed colleague Salki. I said there might be a problem with me in this real sector. In the real sector, it's like that. If you work and reward, if you don't, someone better will come. This is some new atmosphere for me, and I respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9531	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9532	I thank the chairman. We've already exhausted ourselves, I'm going to try to be brief, and don't feel me as a distraction of all these praises, the Office of Audit, which I do, because only when you look at the many materials that we've got you have nothing to say, and that's all you have to write, review, see, etc. I would only draw 98 attention to some things that sometimes seem to me from some experience, very short at this level that I had, that sometimes the revision behind the frame of my behavior, so sometimes let's say some documents, some findings that are in the phase of still talking to the users of the budget, are already publicized. I don't know how that happens. So whether it's malicious or not, according to some institutions, it's the same as you're revising some with some attention or attention, some with someone else. So some documents and some data are going behind the press from the auditor's pens, and if it wasn't for the process and it wasn't for the end of the conversation, so as far as I understand it. On the other hand, there have been such findings since the revision, so I'd like to draw some attention to that, for example. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, as I recall, washed his car too many times. I mean, it's the auditor's nebulosis to ask for something like that. You need to look at the documents, the money he got, and what he's already been acting on, not that he's acting on now and his conscience, even though it's part of it, and that's that, right? Or on the other hand, you remember one problem that I may have experienced, and there is Mr. Novaković, president of the Committee for Transport and Communications, when the information was brought out to the public that BHANSA is what 70m euros or marks we were lower, because of some unfinished business. So, first of all, there were no invoices, so the unpaid bills, but the audit told us that, if something had been done had been made, it would have been so much earned. And the second is that, but you can't say in public that it's a loss of account or I don't know, that's how you actually get a public opinion, even though it's not true. So, here I would just, I wouldn't go on, with congratulations, of course, and me, joining the new management of the audit team, the chief auditor, to take a little bit of care about it, so when the process of reviewing the establishment that it doesn't go out until it's published. I know that there is a Law on Access to Public Information, but also if they are in the role, in which they are, to warn us, to warn all these powerful agencies to do as Bog commands, or law, then they should do so rather than manipulate themselves in public, sometimes unfounded. Here, just so it's not all good, even though I'm really congratulating the review on this hourly work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9533	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 79, Ad. 79. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Instituting public internal financial controls (PIFs) in BiH institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was submitted in procedure 03.08.2015. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its opinion on Report 23.11.2015. The Commission accepted the report and proposed its conclusions. I'm opening a debate. If no one's answering for the hearing, we'll close point 79. We're going to the 80th point, 99 Ad. 80. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Material of the BiH Ministry of Justice
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9537	Thank you very much. I don't think it's right for me not to say a few words that are important and likely to make a proper conclusion from this House's session. It is known that both soldiers and police officers on peacekeeping missions are getting very high praise for their work, but it is not even known to this Parliament that one thing that makes it impossible for them to do their job the way they should. For years, therefore, all police agencies have been ignoring the state that the equipment of people who go on peacekeeping missions, especially police officers, is not appropriate, and it is the people who are going to the temperature of plus 50 degrees, and that, in November 2013, the Council of Ministers has tasked the Ministry of Security to initiate, as soon as possible, with the security agencies to make a proposal for working and formal uniforms, so that soldiers, or police officers, are leveled and allowed to work in these working conditions. So, never that topic, that job is done. They, all the members who write reports on the state of the units, repeat the problem of boots and uniforms every year. And I really can't believe that only the SIPA and the Republika Srpska MUP came forward and made prescribed uniforms, both solemn and working, and that all other police agencies are waiting for someone to do it. So, I suggest we draw a conclusion within this point, no matter what... The Commission adopted, and this is that the House of Representatives of the Paramentary Assembly asks the Ministry of Security, or the Minister, to initiate, within the shortest time, the establishment of a Regulation on uniforms adapted to the climate conditions of police officers in peacekeeping missions, and to inform the House of Representatives after the adoption of the Council of Ministers. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9538	Okay, thank you. Please deliver it in writing. We don't have any more charges to discuss at this point. Moving to point 82, Ad. 82. Information on Annual Training Plan and Training of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2016, BiH Ministry of Defence material A law on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities in the field, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 14/05, the BiH Defence Minister is obliged to meet the Council of Ministers by 15 September of the current year with the Annual Training and Exercise Plan for the following year and to provide information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH has delivered its opinion on the Annual Training and Exercise Plan 09.11.2015. The Commission took note of the Annual Plan and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a call. If there's no record of a hearing, we'll conclude the 82nd point. Point 83 of the agenda, Ad. 83. Information on the problem of solving permanent ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9541	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9542	We have a order that's the other way around...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9543	No, it's not that anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9544	And it's not the Agency yet, it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9545	She's on her way now. We've got the wrong schedule... 101
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9546	He's just leaving now. He's just leaving.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9547	That's what I saw. You see, here we have the 82nd point of information on permanent accommodation, and 83rd of the Annual Training Plan, and he read 82. The annual training plan, 83, and 82 is this. But never mind, now goes this point. He won't skip anything. Read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9548	So the 83rd point according to the material that I have, but I think there was a mistake somewhere in one point, Ad. 83. Information on the problem of resolving permanent accommodation of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption in eastern Sarajevo, Commission material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency The Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, 02.10.2015, referred to the Commission to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and to coordinate the fight against corruption of the Information given for consideration. The Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, 06.10.2015, proposed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to include the consideration of the information in question in the agendas and to invite the director of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives of the Office for Joint Affairs of the BiH institution. The College of the House of Representatives decided to refer the information to the Joint College of both homes. At its 10th session, held on 29.10.2015, the Joint College was informed of the above information, and concluded that the information was delivered to MPs and delegates for consideration at the next sessions. The material for this point you've got. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9550	Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9551	Replication to what, reading the agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9552	No, it's just since... The Commission and the Agency shall, together, address this information. [[no microphone turned on]] So I would suggest that we first address the Honorable Director, Mr. Lisak, and that he present to us here what the situation is about this solution, and then we can get involved. It's just a technical remark. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9553	Where, where is Mr. Lisak? Do you need to talk? You have a need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9554	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, first of all, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the Agency's staff and on my own behalf. I've respected fatigue since the whole day's session, but I'm also taking the opportunity to address myself for the issues under consideration. First of all, I would like to thank the Agency's selection and monitoring committee, and then this House, recognised the problem of the Agency's accommodation and put this Information on the agenda. True, I am not happy about this, and I am not exulting, because at first we must all acknowledge together that the reason for today's agenda, which is discussed at the session of the highest legislative body in the country, is more than odd, and this is about considering the Agency's accommodation problem. This should be a technical issue under normal conditions, but unfortunately we are witnessing that this issue is also being debated by Parliament. What Imposing me is that this debate shows this House its commitment to combating corruption, creating institutional capacities for this Agency as a central point for preventing and coordinating the fight against corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am responsible for the work and functioning of the Agency and I will do everything to ensure that the Agency fulfils its tasks, but also to ensure adequate conditions for the employment of employees, which I am obliged to comply with the Law on Civil Servants and in accordance with the Labour Act. I've seen you so today, here I am since this morning with you, your mixing when five seconds doesn't work the microphone in the O.R. That's what I saw on the side. So do you think that without basic working conditions, the Agency can function? I know so, and I am sure that today will open various questions, all with the aim of ensuring a certain way of replacing thesis. Therefore, honourable MPs allow me, because of the objectivity of the real situation, to at least briefly convince this Information, and in particular to point to one fact that this way, in some ways points to some illogicality, which is that the executive authority does not implement the conclusions of the legislative authority, and then that certain services do not carry out the conclusions of the executive authority. I think this is really inadmissible. So, through this information once, in a chronological way, we tried to present the sequence of events related to ensuring the accommodation of this agency. I would not have convinced in which way the Agency was formed, I would not have convinced the Council of Ministers' decisions on the Agency's headquarters, nor would I have convinced that this esteemed House in 2013 has concluded that the Agency is being provided with adequate accommodation. takoċe, the same conclusion was reached during the discussion of the report on the work of this agency at the House of Peoples. meċutim, what I particularly draw attention to is that after the address of the Council of Ministers' General Secretariat, in his letter of 09.10.2013, when he provided us with information on the Council of Ministers' conclusions, nothing practically happened until February 2015. So no one contacted us about the problems of accommodation, any needs, schedules or the size of the office premises, although we estimated in the eighth month of 2013, based on certain standards that regulate the necessary conditions for the work of employees, the needs of this agency, which ranged about 500 square meters. So, instead of any agreement with this Agency regarding or indicating that the issue of this Agency will be resolved, we simply received one notice from the Service for Joint Affairs in addition to what was the Council of Ministers' decision, and then I was simply aware of that 103 Decision immediately saw a series of illogicalities, and among other things, that the collection of assigned space is greater than the purchase of, than the total number of purchased space, so that this fact itself speaks about the seriousness, professionality, expertise and awareness of the motionor of the Decision, which, by the way, is published in the "Official Messenger of BiH". What's the basic problem, what we've been talking about at the Agency's College, is that we can't physically settle in. I'm not getting into a problem right now that we don't have adequate accommodation for certain other obligations that we are obliged to adapt certain rooms related to the accommodation of material and technical resources and the rest, but the bottom line is that in this space we can't physically move in. Thus, I note that according to the standards necessary for the workplace, for the needs of 33 perpetrators, as many as there are currently in the Agency, it would be necessary to provide 306 square meters, so that the total space allocated to both agencies, there that has been purchased, is 279 meters. And on this basis, practically, if the entire Agency had been assigned a total space, it would have been 26 and a half meters missing, and this would mean that the Agency could no longer be extended to a systematiced number of perpetrators. meċutim, what I particularly wanted to draw attention to is that the key problem has actually arisen because of the fact that the Service for Joint Affairs, which has been designated and tasked by the Council of Ministers to implement the procedure for the purchase of space, has never contacted the Agency, in order to possibly obtain information on the real needs of this institution, when it comes to its permanent accommodation. And then comes a certain correspondence that shows certain illogicalities, and that's the first thing that we got one letter from the Ministry of Finance that urgently, which urgently requires moving into the assigned space, so only if you allow me, is we urgently asked to move into the assigned space. This act has been in place since 10.03.2015, and the Joint Affairs Service 15 days later informs us of the work on the premises and that they are unable to hand over the keys to us, although in 23.03 we were informed that they have made an official transfer of the purchased facility. This is really something that's very hard to understand. We later formed, with a solution, a commission for the handover, as someone who respected the law and canceled the lease of business space in the area in which we were then. This lease of business space expired on 1606/2015, and what I particularly want to stress is that from that period, as legalists, the Agency did not take any financial commitments related to the payment of the lease. What is particularly surprising is when the Key Transfer Commission, which was formed by the Agency, was on the spot together with the representatives of the Market Surveillance Agency, which so got space, came up with some data that were really a little bit strange, which is that those people who came from the Joint Affairs Service only had keys in their hand, without possibly preparing a certain transfer report without having any information on whether there was a valid permit, etc. Thus, during this period, electricity was not included, and in particular the members of this Commission, which I formed, pointed to one fact, which is that the offices contain gas boilers, practically behind the contractors, boilers for heating. For all these reasons, I have urgently asked the Council of Ministers.../the speaker is warned that his time has run out... to reconsider the decision. In the meantime, the Council of Ministers held a session in the sixth month and tasked the institution's Joint Affairs Service to draft a proposal for the accommodation of institutions in eastern Sarajevo for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9555	Mr. Lisak, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9556	Nothing's going on and what's most important and I think what really as a legalist can... 104
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9557	We have it in the materials mostly everything. Time's up, 10 minutes are up, we've given you an emergency word. Please, let's finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9558	Here I am ending, only that, therefore, the reasoning of the Decision on the granting of financial resources for the lease of business space not only for this institution but also for other institutions, is the fact that it is said here – given that the Service has not acted after the conclusion so far, therefore the funds for the lease are set out. And what I suppose is, what you expect from me as a director, which is that I might give a determined proposal on how to get out of this situation is actually a fact that if an opinion prevails in this House to possibly satisfy the needs of the Agency, I suggest that the expert face of a civic or architectural profession be hired to give a professional opinion, opinion and assessment – whether it is more cost-effective to adapt and adapt the existing space for the needs of the Agency or more rationally to place agencies based in East Sarajevo, whose space is appropriate and which can be moved immediately at no extra cost. I'm afraid if there's any extra costs, I'm saying this now as a former police officer, that eventually it won't withdraw the question of someone's responsibility and unconscious service work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9559	Okay. List of discussions, MP Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9560	Thank you very much. I don't think there was a need for this long exposure to the situation we're in could, this is written material, to divide. However, as a member of the Commission for the Monitoring of the Work of this Agency, I know about everything that's been going on, and that's why I answered my word to support this, I say this is the system of hunger that doesn't understand, the director doesn't seem to mind, he wants to say everything, because that's what they feel bad for and for a reason they have, they have this feeling and the injustice and irresponsible relationship with this Agency that we all swear to. We all say we need an agency like this, that God has greater powers if it wasn't just coordination or I don't know the prevention, that we also have... a agency like this that would have other powers. But what's there is, in any case, I want to support, support or join in disdain for this sort of resolution of their accommodation, I would say on a symbolic level, this is multiple can be signifiable. We have the Agency... on the other hand we have obviously some blurry actions regarding that space. To compare that others understand what it's about, here per employee's head, I'd say, up to about two with two rooms where that's what you can set up, alone, and maybe a chair, a chair. I made a comparison between the Information and Recognition Centre of higher education documents, from these audit reports, and I saw that they have 16 employees and have a space of 207 square meters. Here 149, that's one of these apartments, 149, here's 150 squares and 33 employees, about 4.5 meters gets one employee. I think that's why we've somehow initiated the Commission to go to this one of our sessions here, and it would be necessary to approach this. I'm saying, there's multiple symbols that it's exactly this agency, and that behind that, it seems, there's a lot going on. Now, I support this being resolved if it is possible in any way in favour of the Agency which is obviously very important to all of us, but let it be in practice as well. Thank you. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9561	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9562	Well, here's what I have the right to say, since I was the former chairman of this Agency's Labour Monitoring Commission, and I know what motives we've been working on to get rid of as soon as possible to get the Agency into the right space. But please, Council of Ministers at 123rd session, held on 11.02.2015, that was eight months ago, decided to move this Agency and this Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Agency for Market Control to newly purchased 407 squares. And imagine the correspondence that's been going on since February, and I remind you, just that the Agency has 348 squares at this moment, and this other agency with 318, it's almost 670 squares and sits, none will be measured, and the lease is being paid, and the purchase space is being bought. That doesn't have any excuse. How could the problem be solved? When I saw how many letters were going here, so listen, this could have been solved by going to the Council of Ministers and ending the problem. I don't think everything can be solved, Director, just -- I'm writing to this guy, I'm writing to that guy. Well, in the end, you came to the worst solution that you've ever had with all of us. To ask the Council of Ministers to put aside the decision and nothing further is resolved, and you are even worse than the matter the Commission has made, to ask the Council of Ministers to raise the issue of responsibility for the Joint Affairs Service. Well, the Joint Affairs Service is the operational body of the Council of Ministers and is doing what the Council of Ministers tells him. Well, the Service can't make a schedule, buy new spaces, throw away the old ones. Only one conclusion here is missing, yes, and now we can do it in front of Parliament, ask the Council of Ministers to get the space at its height, as far as that is, 407 squares are allotted to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. And we solved the team, the other agency stays... rented, because we have no other way to solve it, if we care to end this problem. And they can start right now, call the Service now to see what needs to be adapted and start working here. So there's no other possible way. Who's going to buy a new space now and when it's a new space... it's a matter of no speech. So I think this is the simplest way, I'd like to see, Director, what do you think about it, but I think it's the only way, because there's no new shopping for these needs special.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9563	If I understand you've suggested a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9564	I've suggested a conclusion, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9565	Please deliver it in writing. Next is Aleksandra Pandurević. /Shortly interrupted video/ I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9567	In short, about this, in fact, this Joint Affairs Service, colleague Majkić says it is not up to them, is to the Council of Ministers sure what they say so. And this is the proposal the Agency has advocated, of course. meċutim, they were told, as far as I know from what we discussed with the Commission, you go in here, and we'll eventually go after that. Imagine moving and all that, so it seems to me, to the Service and how this will be resolved is a good proposal for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9568	Okay, thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9569	Thank you. Well, it seems to me that dear colleague Majkić didn't read the information until the end. The Service for Joint Affairs is an operational body of the Council of Ministers and therefore our conclusion 2, because the Service for Joint Affairs refuses to implement the decisions of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Lisak was at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, he was, were representatives of the Joint Affairs Service called to resolve this case, Mrs. Majjko Majkić, the accommodations, and I must say to the vice-president, Mr. Mirko Šarović, who attended the session was the initiator of this, had the discomfort. The director of the Joint Affairs Service started shouting at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on him because he asked for this problem to be resolved. The Council of Ministers, this Council of Ministers, unanimously adopted a conclusion on 17 June 2015, in charge of the Joint Affairs Service to review the Decision on the schedule of office space in East Sarajevo and Tuzla, making sure BiH institutions in the newly purchased facilities have optimal conditions for their work. What's going on? The Director of the Joint Affairs Service refuses to carry this out. The director of the Joint Affairs Service was also at the meeting of the Commission, a respected colleague of Vajzović, you know what we experienced, attacked us and the director verbally, yelled at us, did not allow us to speak. The man refuses to implement the Council of Ministers' decisions. And that is why it is unanimous, so unanimously at the Commission's session, it is concluded that it is required by the Council of Ministers to raise the issue of responsibility of those in the Office for Joint Affairs who are obstructing the resolution of this problem. The Commission thus unanimously adopted two conclusions that I propose to Parliament to adopt, by becoming the conclusions of the House of Representatives, and possibly modifying this first in a way that in the end means, instead of "point" adding a "point" and adding: "and to consider, means, the Council of Ministers to consider the possibility of obtaining space in the East Sarajevo Street in full to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption". Of course, in ours, of course, please allow a colleague, of course in our conclusion 2, we are absolutely staying because of the behavior of the Director of the Joint Affairs Service, and these costs that continue to be paid for the rent are his responsibility. I have to say that I have information that the rest of the Joint Affairs Service, the executives, have been fenced in writing from his conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9570	Thank you. 107 Mr. Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a lot more complicated than we have in front of us and what we're discussing. If it's true that the price of a square meter was 2,460 KM then this is a much more complex problem. I've been working as an engineer for 37 years, and what I have in front of me, if this is a drawing, I don't know if it's an accurate, typical building with apartments turned into a business space. Prices in the eastern Sarajevo residential space are accurate, Ms. Pandurević I'll give you an ad, 1,240 marks. I'll give you last year's ad, last, 1,170 marks, and I'll give you last year's notice because we're following it on the market because... And it's very interesting that this cost 2,460 and we get what we get, and that's to say Mr. Director, that gas boilers are above leins, which means now they have to do a different distribution of gas boilers because of the depletion of space. And look here at the scattered and wet knots, so you'll understand that it's overcompensated apartments. They're scattered, these are where the bearing beams are located and the layout of the light vents or windows and entrances. And don't, since you're at the Anti-Corruption Agency, don't you ever question this, because this is absolutely impossible. Do you know how much the price of squares is to build a building like this? If you don't know between 700 and 850 marks when you're building it yourself, it means brick, malter, installations, floors, sanitary and ha, ha, that's how much it costs. This is some other game. So whoever's forcing you to go in there is in good debt to whoever paid for this. So when I say debt means he won, and now the poor guy can't pull out of it, because that's why heads fly, there's money in play. That's what, and I don't see here from the security agencies or any of the ministers here, which they would have to withdraw -- who, how, in what way, under which conditions he accepted to buy an object that costs 2,460. Do you know how much it cost the square of this building you're sitting in right now, we're sitting, you know, did you ever ask that? _________(?) We didn't. You're not. A lot less than 2,460 KM. So what's the catch, what's the catch? If such objects are purchased, then woe to this country, woe to this country, to the people we represent, if this is how easily paid at these prices. At the price of 2,460 marks, the building is a top-of-the-line building with marbles, jacuzzis, I don't know, effects, and I don't know you anymore as soon as I don't know these prices, remember that. It is necessary, Mr. Lisak, that I recommend it to you, because you are forced into this facility, to persist in this and to become an expert in the grace-architectural profession that will give you what you are really going into. Just one detail on the drawing you gave, it's a compound of two wet knots on each other, just one detail, I've seen it here, just one. That means there were two apartments, and then one of them was separated in the hallway, and one of them was connected to the room where people were going to stay, look at that, look at that. It needs to be looked at, so one here and another, clear as day. Well then... the ambassador warns himself that his time has run out from the living room made corner office to single out another office. Here, I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9573	Come on, please. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9574	I'm just alive interested in who were those who decided to buy objects in and for the sake of the country's money citizens of this country? If it's such a waste, I say again, woe to the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9575	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9576	Thank you, gentlemen chairman. I didn't think there was any need to answer that, but the discussions in their own way are inciting a man to answer. I thought today was about getting rid of the Agency's accommodation, because there are other questions I have nothing against, fighting corruption is a precontamination job. Corruption can be on one side, it can be on the other side, there can be corruption everywhere. And I'm sorry the Council of Ministers didn't solve this problem. This is the space that, other areas have been purchased, I think it's the cheapest space paid for in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the cheapest,... This structure here was completed at a time when Šefik and Martin Raguž presided over the donation of the Norwegian government. _________(?) [[You don't understand.]] [[no microphone turned on]] The Norwegian governments, Greece worked there, Greece worked, the Norwegian governments at a time when the prices of squares were... I'm begging you... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9579	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9580	Thank you. The price of all this was to first show that the anarchy of government in this institution, especially by the Service for Joint Affairs, because I think all of this here requires that they know and that we, as Parliament, ask the Council of Ministers to put an end to this anarchy and finally resolve the issue of accommodation of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. As far as the accommodation itself, mentioned by Honorable counterpart Špirić, said he couldn't believe that he was less safe than he is now, which he already is less safe, I know where he is, there are two buildings than mine and you know how you are now approaching, I passed there last night, one end of the street I closed with burners, in rubber boots to the door, unskilled access, so it's a street, who knows, under the shower this way turn me away to the bar to get to that business space in such conditions. It's a business space in a residential building where people live on the ground floor of that apartment building. So, the approach is absolutely unskilled, I don't know when someone was buying, whether he was taking care of all of it, of the clockwork, but what's there is, let's decide not to pay rent and rent and ask the Council of Ministers for that space to be assigned to this agency, or possibly to pay them rent to this agency, and then put some other two agencies there. Because here this morning was the answer to my parliamentary question, in East Sarajevo you have a dozen BiH institutions paying rent, so I guess someone else can move in there, but let's get rid of this already.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9581	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. We're going to the 84th point, Ad. 84. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Supply, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance On 06.11.2015, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a report on the establishment of a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Development Agency. The proposal for a ranking list is as follows: 1. Momčilo Pelemiš – others, 97.3 points; 2. Nikola Poplašen – Srbin, 96.8 points; 3. Midhad Jahić – Bošnjak, 96.6 points; 4. Marinko Jurilj – Hrvat, 96.5 points. Noting that this list was adopted at the House of Peoples, is it true? I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić first called.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9583	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are three reasons why the Social Democratic Party's Club of MPs cannot support the election of Mr. poplašiti in the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency. In the foundations of the Social Democratic Party is anti-fascism and we cannot accept a man who has never been fenced by the actions of organisations and individuals of the fascist province who support him. Another significant reason is the fact that the authorities, or one of the agencies, select one of the agencies a man who, as President of Republika Srpska, requested by his actions and whose strategy was, in fact, that entities, that entity borders become state borders. And finally the third reason why we can't support the election of Mr. poplašiti in the Management Board of this Agency is the fact that Mr. Poplašen is the bearer of the recognition of the Chetical Equality Movement that we in the Social Democratic Party are experiencing as a terrorist organisation. Thank you. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9584	Next Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9585	I thank the chairman. Soon, the day before the 72nd anniversary of the maintenance of ZAVNOBiH, we are talking about a man who is a follower of defeated ideology in World War II and his appointment to the Management Board of the BiH Higher Education Agency. It's sad that we've even come into this position, and it's saddened to say that it's a subject, and even sadder that the House of Peoples has given its support to this candidate. In short, I call on all MPs to vote against the proposal of the Interim Joint Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9586	Ambassador Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9587	Mr. Chairman. _________(?) Replic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9588	I'm sorry, Nikola Špirić came forward before that for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9589	He's a tolerance.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9590	What? Tolerant.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9591	It's a tolerable Špirić when...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9592	Well, if you accept here's Mr. Špirić to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9593	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9594	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9595	Mr. Chairman. Well, I've come to say a few things, to learn from all this and move on. So the first thing is that we at least formally, when it comes to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, talk about our European definition and that's important to us all, it's a chance for 112 of this country, that's what citizens of this country understand and that's that look in the future. I think this step that's been taken into the House of Peoples is the wrong step and he's kind of taking us back. She wouldn't want anything further in that sense politicizing. Instead of us sitting here in the House of Representatives understand that we should be sensitive when we make decisions, that we are not making anything that could bring us back when it comes to our European path. So, and I suggest that in this sense we reject this decision, that in the future we negotiate more seriously and more responsibly before we put into the Parliamentary Assembly some things that could produce what they have now produced. I don't think anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the interest of us wasting our time on this evidence, going back, talking, taking out, as they say, CVs, biographies, uh, and anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I call, in this sense, to sort of, uh, deny some broad-ranging, broad discussion, rather than throw this away, and to learn from all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9596	Ambassador Mensura Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9597	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I join the discussion of my colleagues who have discussed a proposal for a member of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency, Mr. poplašiti, for two more reasons why we should return this proposal, or not support or refuse, however you wish. I'm a member of that commission, a temporary commission, and I've been to a decision-making session exclusively against this proposal, and I would add in my discussion two more very important reasons to repeat ourselves from the session to the session. One of the reasons I want to join this one that is very politically sensitive, and I absolutely agree with it, is that in the work of committees, temporary commissions, and among other things, this commission, which is already sitting and considering proposals, or the application of candidates for members of the Management Board, is that we, I can't say, degrade, but let's say, I'll use that term, at the very least, failed the institution of the competition. So people apply to the competition believing that they will be assessed realistically, their competences that they will be realistically evaluated, that they will be ranked in the way that they really need to be based on their biography and interview, which unfortunately does not happen. It's in force here, I must say, here is the power of the voting machine of parties that can decide and decide who will be ranked. I know it can be someone funny, like Mr. Sarajlić at this point, I don't know if that's why you laughed or not, but I don't want it to be relevant enough. So to degrade the competition institution means to send a message to the candidates who are coming to the interview. And I'll just tell you, not to name names, what situations we have, that a man writes a CV that has a total of six sentences, that a man comes to an interview and doesn't want to talk and present himself, because, my Bog, it's a matter of politics and politics should make such decisions. That we should ignore the situation in which someone says, well, I have signed up out of curiosity. Please, we are registered by people who, after two, three mandates, are sitting on the same board of directors of the Agency who have not achieved the results they were supposed to produce in these previous years. So we'll give them at least one, two more terms of office. I really don't think it makes any sense either of these commissions that, in that way, I find, degrades the institution of competition and that makes us... It is not only with this committee that the word, but with other committees,...the last time in Parliament held a situation when we expressed doubts about the regularity of the candidate candidate for the Ombudsman. So I think we should really consider it with due seriousness. 113 The second reason why I would reject this proposal is because I voted against it... it is precisely because of the 21 candidates where we have highly respected candidates who are regular professors, doctors of science with a rich experience in those jobs that are needed in the Management Board of this Agency, not one woman of cadida, therefore, was not a proposal of these four who have appeared. So, as a commission, we don't respect the Law on Gender Equality. There's no need to mention, you probably all know, that the education sector is mostly based on women who are employees of primary, secondary,... education where the percentage of working women in teaching staff, and otherwise in full staff, in the education system is far higher than the percentage of men. [[isn't understood because someone coughs]] Such a situation is not in the administrative bodies. So,... send me a message and through this selection and this proposal for the Higher Education Agency to be exclusively men candidates in four, in this case where we choose four members for the Management Board. So I suggest that the proposal is not rejected (?) And I don't think the Democratic Front Club will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9598	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here I am reporting that I would try to put this little problem, that is, this question, where it belongs. In fact, it is true that the colleague is a member of this committee, and I am a member of the commission, and I claim that we have done according to the Rules of Procedure and according to the contest that we had before us, but we have had a difficult task because there you must have regular professors, and the representation of the people, and, uh, here, and sexual representation and every other one, so it was. Last time we did the proposal that was previously implemented, so in two parts we did this, first for three places so for four we're working now, so we had a rejection. So besides this commission that did everything according to what was to be said (?). All the candidates who came before us satisfied, therefore, the conditions of the contest and it was simple, the colleague said this on the committee yesterday when we briefly had this second competition repeated, remember that before two sessions this one was returned, so we talked about this impression. And Mr. Kadić, who was on board from the House of Peoples, and he felt very uncomfortable, and this really caused some controversy that we were wondering what to do now, so we were going to ask people there if you were a war criminal, didn't you, what you came here for, did you, therefore, bring the documentation requested by the Constitution that you were not punished. We appreciated it all, and we fought how we fought. My colleague may have voted in favour of the report when we made a complete list like she said, and when we hit, we don't know how she voted or she knows how I voted, and I don't know who has any colleagues here. But I, uh, I've consulted myself a little bit, you won't mind me, with colleagues who are at least from the commission, thinking how, since this has gotten some of the connotations that we really didn't want, and we don't think that that's why in this House so much tension is rising because of the Governing Council of the Higher Education Agency, which has the ingenuity that it has, you know, you know, the Administrative Council for what it can do, what it is, that now so much, uh, it's got this kind of proportion. My colleague, my colleagues from the House of Peoples, said they couldn't believe what happened. So 114 we've just been working on the procedure that's been planned. meċutim, here are colleagues from the commission, I suggest, therefore, that we adopt this committee's proposal with what I propose, this time as a representative, because here, perhaps as a member of the commission, that instead of Mr Nikola poplašiti, we should appoint Mr Milenko Stanić, who is second on the list, so by our score, as far as I know, and he is a regular professor, so we must also make sure that we have a new, new, new, new story of the three. So maybe that would be the way out if we didn't repeat the competition again, because we've already repeated one part once, we should do another. So, I think it would be going out if colleagues, first of all from the commission, accepted it and you others. So, they all met the conditions, that we understood each other. So none of them did, only in the score got the position they got, so no one, if we chose, I don't know, or the fifth. This was a proposal from the commission, and now I suggest that only Mr. Nikola the Poplašen... we replace with this name that I said and that we may be in the procedure that this is the solution, if you agree, if you disagree then, of course, you will decide what kind of... Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, we'll take care of the second round now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9601	Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9602	I don't know, here... but I need you to replicate, do you. We're a country that came out of the war and a lot of people in the country weren't responsible for what he did in the course of cancer, because prosecutors and courts in this country aren't that fast. We here have to worry or those who, the board that is pushing, who are discussing it need to know at least about a sensitive area which is called education because of the new generations that are coming. And that's the point. So your proposal to instead of Nikola poplašiti to be Milenko Stanić is unacceptable to me, because I also know the role of Mr Stanić when it comes to the Vlasenica and the war period. I'd rather go for the first one.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9603	The chairman, Mr. Mladen Bosić, is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9604	This, as I understand it, was a competition that required a profession, this is not a political choice. Here people competed, met certain conditions, and based on these conditions, and their statements, the commission scored them. The attempt to import politics into who's what ideologies, who's what they're doing, for people who aren't in any way, and who aren't convicted of raising tensions here, who's been doing what in this House and what ideology he's had during the war, and no one's been distracted here. So don't bring us into political waters on the issue of the Higher Education Commission. Secondly, it is not possible, I understand Mr. Lovrinović's good intentions, but there is one problem the House of Peoples has already adopted such a list. If we were to adopt that list, some other list, so the changed list would be a problem again, so the whole thing would fall. I propose to vote on this, to accept that the BiH Parliament is no courtroom, who likes me personally and who doesn't like 115, that's a whole other thing. This is about competition and the score of the expertise and qualifications of one of the candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9605	Thank you very much. Lady Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil has a wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9606	This is a replica, actually, because what you're offering here doesn't answer what we'd like to replicate. Since I see that the rapporteur of this commission, Mr Nenad Lalić, and according to the rank of the list that we had... two months ago when a respected colleague and head of the SDA Club asked to return and repeat the competition because the SDA gave up the candidate, if I am not mistaken, Goran Selesković, that the SDA is ready to support the quota of others to give to Mrs Lamija Tanović, then there was an option that one woman and how can be in place on the Management Board of the Agency for Higher Education, today we see this is not the case. I think it takes chronologically for me to explain how it is then, we, of course, Lovrinović not considering that we're throwing someone out right now and we're putting in the place of whoever we're throwing out because this was exactly the repeat procedure when the head of the SDA Club asked for it, and we agreed that we should return to the commission. As far as I know then, it was to be given to Lady Lamiji Tanović, she is no longer absolutely in the quota of others, but replaced by a colleague. I, Mr. Bosić, would not agree with you, even consider myself offended if you identify the declared duke with the jewelry in this hall who sits. For example, I wasn't born at the time when the gentleman declared himself a declaration, so I couldn't be a war criminal or anything. The qualities and qualifications that should be valued here absolutely need to have a moral note. Here we are talking about high school education, and at a time when in one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina we are talking about banning the use of the mother tongue and calling it Bosnian, we need to be at the head of a board of directors, although I fully deem this Agency in general and the existence and need of this agency in general is highly questionable. Since this is not the topic of today's debate, the Democratic Front will absolutely not deal with this list, nor with the poplašiti, nor with the reasons my dear colleague presented, will we support this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9607	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a replica, no, a mistake, a replica of MP Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9608	I want to replicate my colleagues to Ahmetović on a sentence in which he says that for acts committed in the war that have not yet been condemned by some people, for these reasons they cannot be elected here today. First, whether someone has done some work or not, it will show or show time. The way someone took his picture, my lords, let's take all the pictures of how many of you have taken your picture since '92. '95. A year. Shall we take out those pictures with the EL Mujahid Mudžahid, too, and we'll explain those pictures here in Parliament, and we'll talk about it. I was never a member of the Serbian Radical Party. We in Republika Srpska have said our relationship to this ideology 116 in the elections and there is no need for you SDP to tell us. None of the radical parties met the censorship in the election. That means we've made that clear. There's no need for you to tell us this. So, I don't see and I don't know, I'd be begging colleagues who know to say what crimes Professor Dr. Nikola Poplašen, who committed a crime other than taking pictures and being led by the Serbian Radical Party. I repeat, I've never been there because I'm not that radical. But I'd like to know what crime a man has committed. Well, which I would vote for if a man committed a crime, I don't want to vote for the man who committed any crime against anyone in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9609	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Lovrinović. Sadik Ahmetović, was that a mistake or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9610	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9611	And you answered again. Nikola, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9612	I don't know, the one... intent, I think, I've replicated to Mr. Lovrinović for the names he pronounced as a replacement, so. [[He/she doesn't understand because at the same time he/she talks and holds the presidency/]] And I could explain here why I wouldn't vote for Milenko Stanić. So it's better if I don't talk about it, I don't want to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9613	So it's not acceptable either this one or that one. Here you go, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9614	Nothing, so I wanted my colleague Sadik, first of all him, to answer that I only logically suggested a candidate who got another number of points to get out of this situation, nothing more. We can line up like that now, I don't know how many there were, 10, so in order, if you will, of course, the order of the Serb people. My Koleginica Majo, now the contest in progress is the part we've returned in three, remember then, it's not this. So, it was chosen on two occasions, this is a tender for four members of the Board of Directors, before it was for three. That's the one we knocked down, now it's the competition for him again. And we have there... and there will be for another, because 10 is a total member, there will be a re-election. We can even sort things out when it comes to what Mrs. Beganović was talking about, but it's a very unpleasant situation. So you have to have a good relationship between two entities, you have to have a national composition, you have to have a line of regular professors, it seems to me 5, so that's it. People came to the public tender, so it would simply be so hard to do, all the people who met your requirements on the list, i.e. the competition. And the only thing that can happen to this fielder is that I, here's what I suggested for the best, to at least finish this part of the job, suggested this name. Now I don't know, so if it's unacceptable, I have nothing else to say. He'll vote. Thank you very much. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9615	Thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9616	First, it should be said that we should return to the essence of what is problematic in this appointment. And to respond to what is essential, it is not bad to remind some that Bosnia and Herzegovina has suffered the greatest sacrifice of all Yugoslav republics during the last, last, world-wide anti-fascist war. And all Bosnian-Herzegovic peoples – Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, ostali, are undoubtedly listed on the side of the World Anti-Fascist Coalition thanks to anti-fascists. These values of antifascism on these values are also fabricated and today's Europe in which we live. These Bosnian-Herzegovic peoples – Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, ostali, they still have many decent, educated people who do not, for one moment, associate their name, their profession, their ideology, with fascist movements from World War II. Even after this election in the House of Peoples, Mr. Nikola Poplašen made a statement that he was still proud of the Chetnic movement, the title of the Duke and the Chetnic ideology. So none of the MPs put him there, he still claims it's his choice. Now the question is, if this is all the same, that there was not a single vote in the second equal home against the appointment of the Chetnik Duke to the Higher Education Agency. Not a single vote against. So, three people with their representatives without a vote against. The second question is not clear to me, and often here in Parliament and in previous mandates, it has been said that 99% of the laws and parliamentary procedures can begin from the House of Representatives, and ends in the House of Peoples, as in this 1% of the cases that this started from the House of Peoples, so here is the House of Representatives today. The truth under the current constitutional law is also possible, but it is very indicative. Next thing you know, God Bog this is this guy's last mistake. We are now surprised that the Chetnik Duke has passed through the House of Peoples, as counterpart Zaim Backović would say, let's do. And why is that? Well, because we're not reading, which we're not following, which we're not seriously analysing, which is what we're superficially approaching, because we're almost anti-citing nothing, and that's just one consequence of the policy most people are silent about, and here in Sarajevo, in Bosnia and Herzegovina all over. Most of them are silent about the fact that in neighbouring Serbia 2004, the Chetnik and Partizan movement, that in 2006, the Rehabilitation Act was adopted, that a procedure for the rehabilitation of the Chetnik movement was launched in 2007 and 2010, that the final decision of the High Court in Belgrade was now taken on 14 May 2015 that Draža Mihajlović was released. Well, it's not the release of Draže Mihajlović, it's the legalization of ideology and the goals of the Chetnik movement. And what are your goals? .../Employee warns that his time is up/... Most of Croatia, the whole of Bosnia, the whole of Montenegro, Macedonia, the north of Albania and all that is drawn there. So don't be surprised, because the good part of our politics, our silence, and we're causing us to create such an atmosphere that even such things are possible for us to have the Chetnic Dukes entering our Higher Education Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9617	Replica, Miroslav Milovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9618	Let me once again welcome you to the Honorable Chairman. 118 Since on each other, the third point of the ruling majority is about to get involved, so here we are now on this subject, we have a similar situation, so I suggest an exit solution to take a 10-minute break and check it out. And I think Mr. poplašiti Act of the Duke has been taken away, so it may be some extenuating circumstance to overcome this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9619	Ambassador Nenad Lalić, replica. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9620	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Deputy Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to welcome you all. As chairman of the Interim Joint Commission, here's just to clarify a few things, I would just like to point out, we have analysed, this Mr. Professor Milenko Stanić is already a member of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency to which the mandate has expired. I don't know what it's like, so his term is up, he's already a member. But I want to tell you, we have the order of Srbin, the next one is Drago Vuković, so Stevo Pašalić, and I don't know, they're all extraordinary and regular teachers. I'd like to explain the procedure a little bit, and that, in addition to my colleague Nikola's story, it wasn't an easy task, because all the candidates that were reported here are intellectuals. Let's just say most of them are teachers, from doctor to regular professor. So these are shades, which our people would say all candidates are in five blankets. For that period of 10 minutes, we listened carefully to them when they introduced themselves and gave their interview, asked them questions and based on normal and visual observations, and therefore we made some conclusions and gave assessments that are very close because there are no huge essential reasons. So there were no NK workers and regular professors, all regular professors mostly, so it was hard to rank taking care of this representation to the national and this structure of education. So here I am a compromise man, and I always think, I agree that we shouldn't forget some events, but I think we should forgive each other, try to find a solution, and I'm up for a change and a correction of the list, here's what this Mr. Stanić who's already a candidate is, I don't know what he's been through before, so let's go with the next one, right? Do you have any objections to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9621	Well, yeah, well, obviously it's not acceptable even next, so it probably won't be acceptable for some reason, this is already symptomatic, I think if no candidate on the list is acceptable then something else comes to mind. Lazar Prodanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9622	Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of getting involved in this, but yes, we are virtuosoes to produce tensions, to hate, not to agree on a series of problems. I don't agree either, I have to say it right now, even with the ideology of Professor Dr. No Nikola poplašiti, but I wouldn't argue with his calling. So, whether university professors should be exposed at a given moment, that's the same for me very discreetly, I'm talking about the professional calling that someone has. I will draw our attention here in the country so much I disagree, but it is a matter of the majority's decision, and I am surprised that Professor Dr Lamija Tanović was not elected to the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency or Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović who applied, I saw, quite familiar 119 for which I do not have to explain, but it is not a miracle. But look, the key thing is is whether Nikola was Poplašen in any way suspected, resisted or judged for his work? It's for me, and regardless of the prejudice we have, I'm going to bring you back to the very important things that have been happening in the world. Do any of you remember Kurt Valdhajm, Secretary General of the UN? Do you remember what happened after that, the stories of his biography and a series of other things? Does anyone remember a famous Nobel Ginter winner named Guenter? [[Common discussion]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9624	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9625	Does anyone remember the famous Nobel Ginter Gras Guenter Gras? Can we take away what he was? And I'm going to tell you the third thing that's very unpleasant, but I have no right to take a stand on something. I read about Cardinal Alojzi Stepinac yesterday, you won't believe it, we probably don't get along much here, but I don't have the right to treat him that way. izmeċu other suggestions is that he gets the calling of the Order of the Righteous. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a total of, you know, probably what it is, 90 people got that title. And look what we're doing here right now. I don't have any reserves at all, we don't have a commitment in this sense, do you now have a more important debate, here I am, five cases listed, I apologize if I offended anyone in that sense, how capable we are of being in the past and in our truths. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, personally I had an example, when I was telling the truth, different spins that now... the story of Nikola the poplašiti,... There's not a single human thing in life that's about ethical principles... about the position of the man for whom I would not be proud in my life and what I wouldn't want anyone in my life to do to me, which someone would want me to do to everyone else. So we're virtuoses in the production of hate, congestion and incompetence. In that sense, I'm amazed at what's here, the second process, so if you're serving us this commission now, it's necessary. We are leading the.../Embassy is warned that his time has run out... all the time he's running out in inability to say – come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Please, here's the talk about Professor Dr. Milenko Stanić. The man will now be the deputy governor of the National Bank of BiH. How is it possible to speak now that we are against the fact that there is a story about something, that no man has been despondent, that he has not been convicted of anything and that his mandate has expired in the Agency that he was previously in? Those who say they're against it now voted for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9626	Thank you. Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9627	Thank you. In order not to owe here, I elaborate on why, how, as long as, etc., since in the 1st member of the Statute of the Bosnian-Herzegovic party, the Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotic 120 party is a party to the social democratic orientation, anti-fascist, etc. And since, on a personal example, no matter how anyone looked at and glued me any labels, only World War II survived only my father and everyone was killed by the Chetnik hand, by Chetnik Pavao Đurišić, I mention only my father and no one else. And all over the world, there are only nine last names that are like this, Islamic events, just because they were Islamic events, they were all killed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) I have Backović Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9630	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9631	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, we are coming back to the agenda where Parliament is turning into a courtroom. Now first I ask the commission – has the competition been held? So this isn't or we turn this into a political choice, so you out of the majority make a decision. If her later mind is not helping, it could have been in competition to choose depolitised people who are not members of any party, so it would be worth one, the other and the third. So it's about two equal homes, the House of Nations and the House of Representatives. And I'm not going to defend anyone, but what we're going to be looking for as a political party is to vote in the package, so we can't bid as a bear of the grizzly pear of this one I won't, telling a story that can hurt people. After all, I have to say that the political parties they have today, which were elected by the president of the Federation up until one year ago by the president of the HSP. I point only to consistency, so before noon one afternoon the other. Is this a choice by competition or political choice? If you're going to do business here with the representatives of the Srbin, it won't pass, it won't pass 121. Let the parliamentary majority decide, we will have our position as a political party. So, if someone makes a mistake not to highlight in the competition what kind of choice it is, if today is debated about people who are already members of the commission that can't do it again,...is that a look back or a look into the future? What's going on... in this country. I am against this Parliament being a courtroom and that is why I said today – this is becoming more and more an agency, a court, a prosecutor's office, and in fact we have all these institutions. The konkurs was, it was respected, and that's why I can't understand that the commission bids so easily on its proposals. If it's gonna be a repeat contest he's worth everything. And that's why I'm asking on behalf of the political party to vote in the package. So if you've paid the price to go through procedure two or three months again, let's learn once. It's either a competitive procedure, or it's a political appointment, only in that sense, and we choose words. There are different pictures, my colleague Momčilo Novaković spoke, today I'm going to say we had a judge who took a picture naked in the office. Right? Well, there are different pictures. Someone's taking pictures that love this picture or that picture. Did it say in the contest to attach pictures? Did it say in the contest that they must be depoliticized? It could've all been in the competition, so it's right in the contest who's to be chosen and what's to be chosen. Now, that's why I told you to disabling the competition with all the appointments and this one. If that's the attitude and the choice of most of us can't change that, but I just want to say that we're slowly turning into something we shouldn't be, and there was a colleague... he was right, not Parliament's courtroom. But behind this, there is an honorable way out that as a representative of the parliamentary majority you accept if you have made a mistake, to publicly say that you will repeat the procedure for everything, and then we are not engaged in such discussions and we are not poisoning relationships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9632	Thank you. I think there is no other option but to vote on the complete list, because the House of Nations has already set it up, and any other vote will lead to the blockade again. We have a replica, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9633	It is not a direct replica, I just want to say Nikola – in full agreement, a complete list and without this debate we could have already finished this, because the parliamentary majority has hands, it also voted in the House of Nations. So, DF and SDA, plus SBB, because he didn't come to the session to raise his hand, it's very clear that the parliamentary majority has, and there's no reason why we're struggling here right now. So these people have a majority and their own hands to confirm this and a finished story. What we're going to vote for, here's the SBB that was explicit and me that was explicit, doesn't mean anything in the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9634	Ambassador Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9635	I just need to take a brief look around, uh, the DF is not part of the parliamentary majority and the DF did not vote, that's what Sifet Podžić did. The club's position is shown on the commission through Mensuru Beganović. I'm sorry Mr. Podžić only consulted with the Bosniak Club, not his club. That's it, thank you. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9636	Replica, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had no intention of taking part in the debate over something we didn't vote on, but it is precisely the fact that no one in the SBB voted for this proposal. Such innuendos are, first of all, malicious, not to say that it is necessary to respect the fact that someone was not in the session at a given time. So it's really not okay. meċutim, I will take this opportunity, when I was forced to report, to correct Mr Backović's really guilty allegations, and this is really an eclectic example of the wrong allegation, but let's go back, so this is, I've talked about this before, and now I'm appealing to everyone, so it's no longer important, here's the DF said that it's no longer part of the parliamentary majority, so now it's official, but everything, position and opposition to take into account this – this is the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of Higher Education. When you look at the world ranking of universities, the best in the region is Ljubljana 216 in the world, then comes the University of Belgrade 431 in the world and Zagreb 458 in the world. And you know where he was first in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo 2.270 in the world, then Banja Luka in 4.010, then Mostar 4,851. And I think it's going to go worse and worse as these discussions get bigger and wider. I really invite you and all of us to keep these figures in mind when we discuss higher education and quality. Because watch out, look how far behind we are in the region 216, 431, 458,.../the ambassador warns that his time has run out/... the first 500 are both Ljubljana and Zagreb and Belgrade, and we are neither in the first 1,000 nor in the first 2,000. Now, I'd like to ask everyone to keep those things in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9638	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, I'd kind of just, like colleague Arnaut, in this sense, keep going. This, the data provided by fellow Arnaut, is data that could be used as, let's say, to round us up, we're not so bad. However, when you take one Shanghai list, the Shanghai List was a real measure of the universities of the world, among the 500 universities leading in the world where 10 American universities, the 10th University of England, so all Americans are tops, from there come all the Nobels. There are only 500 such universities in Belgrade. Ljubljana, which was once the only one in this area, has lost that status more. So this data is accurate, as colleague Arnaut says. But well, I've talked about it asking questions, so none of us here care about higher education, here other things are present, and here are fighting other battles. I really think it's high time for education to pay attention to the Agency's board of directors. Please, I know exactly why the Higher Education Act is not in place, I know exactly how the University Accreditation Commission and the University of Bosnia and Herzegovina works, this is extremely insecure about what is going on with higher education, whether I am 123 for Nikola, or not, it has nothing to do with this. But all of this suggests that we're not interested in anyone in this country's higher education, and we're going to pay dearly for that mistake and unserious access to higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9640	Second replica, MP Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9641	Damir, I must apologize for my inaccurate expression, because obviously I'm misunderstood. I said he wasn't present, so I'm probably in, how the enthusiasm might have said something... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ... I meant the vote by colleagues Bećirović is trying, not vi Bećirović, who is trying to say that he is not their member. The secretary general must be your member, and don't say that, don't say that. As far as Damire University is concerned, what is the total number of universities in the world? Give us that information. _________(?) Don't discuss it with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9644	It's not about Mr. Backović. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9645	It is located in 6,000 and somewhere, and in 10 is the best, as an example, I quote to you, Marangoni, as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9646	Thank you. Discussion, Nikola Lovrinović. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9647	Well, I'm... replicas, so I had to, I'll be very brief, I hope. So my intention was to use, in my opinion, the business opportunities to agree if a different decision was made that two Houses, or Colleges could agree. meċutim, I received an ex post interpretation that this is an impossible mission, so I have nothing left to do but withdraw my proposal and not make a statement about it, and then make a statement about the proposal to the Committee, so what happens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9648	Thank you. The debate is closed. We're going to the next item on the agenda, which is, uh, Ad. 85. The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Combating of Corruption, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Implementation of Procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and coordinate the fight against corruption On 05.11.2015, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption. Proposal for a candidate for the appointment of a representative of the academic community for a member of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption is Prof. Dr. The teachings of Ivanka Marković. The proposal for a candidate for the appointment of a representative of the NGO for a member of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption is Anes Ličina. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to 86.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9650	Nermina Kapetanović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9651	She answered, yes, yes, go ahead. The debate, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9652	Mr. Chairman. 125 I, as the chairman of the Commission, have an obligation, and especially because of previous discussions and discussions that are otherwise held in this very high House, to explain and to say a few sentences, clarifications on how the Commission works. Our commission held six sessions and at the 6th session we interviewed the candidates. And I have to say that we did an interview with all the candidates, with those whose documents were adequate. I want to say that the goal of the interview was to determine the expertise and training of candidates to perform the requested tasks, of course with the fact that we respected their biography, we checked it out. We asked for clarification regarding meeting the conditions of the public competition. Now, regarding their professional titles and skills, we have asked them certain questions, and for me, their readiness to answer a set of questions concerning the Commission's competence to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Combating Corruption Agency and their knowledge on the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the coordination of the fight against corruption. We've done a type-approval form for the candidates. With me on the commission were Mrs. Tomić, Mr. Sifet Podžić, Mr. Ognjen Tadić and Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. I must say that during the interview, it was indeed a great, great pleasant surprise, the willingness of candidates, two candidates who won the maximum number of points for a simple reason because there was absolutely no question they could answer. And I think it was very, very impressive, especially from the NGOs sector, two candidates who were really very, very high-quality. Unfortunately, there were candidates who were not absolutely ready to answer the question concerning the Agency's work or the Commission's competences. Independently, of course, we were fighting candidates about each other. I mean, for the sake of clarification, The science of Mrs Ivanka Marković from Banja Luka, a professor of criminal law, and I am very happy that we could also respect the representation of women, therefore in such committees, and Mr Anes Ličina, who is as a representative of the NGO sector, is, in addition to all references, a double magistrate and doctorate at Sarajevo University, but it is a young man and a top athlete. And what was particularly important to me was that I didn't have absolutely any guidance from my political party, not even suggestions, not a question, I just had a question of whether the candidates were responding, whether they met, so the criteria sought, and I think that's how all the commissions should work. So ask important, important questions, have a uniform criterion for candidates and thus choose. And I think this time, the Commission has managed to finally make our commitment to educated people and young people are not only declarative, but indeed they have made a good impression, that we have had the chance to give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9653	Okay, thank you. Please keep in mind we've been off the hook for a while. Mr. Backović, you have a discussion, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9654	Okay, you told us... And so on, it would have been good if you'd said which and what, what professions and what part of the NGO's sector is coming from. You have a non-governmental sector to help the children,...the old people, like this, over, I guess it should have been written, after he competed, from which part he came, that we know who they are, if possible. Because if this is what it says here, he's recently been in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he writes here born in Rojayama and recently came to Bosnia. That's so, to see who it's about, you have to tell us. They're on the Internet for a while. 126
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9655	She's a poslanica of the Kapetanović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9656	A BiH citizen since 2014.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9657	Please, Mr. Backović. gospoċa Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9658	In a particular inquiry for a gentleman, it is a man who is a graduate criminal and a graduate politician and a magistrate, so a double master of science in these areas and a doctorate, so they have biography. In addition, please, knowing and assuming that we have, that we are masters of misunderstanding, conspiracy, conspiracy and suspicion, there are other members of the commission here. The tone from the interview, knowing that something like this would happen, I demanded, and I had the support of all members of the neighbours, the tone record is available to all MPs, is a top athlete who has won Bosnia and Herzegovina citizenship and who is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who has worked in an NGO that monitors the fight against corruption. And there's also Lady Monika Tomić can tell us. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9660	Please don't be having a discussion with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9661	We can have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9662	Don't do that. So, replica, Monika Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9663	I welcome again all present. Like this, it was one commission that really worked very professionally and these two candidates, as Dr. Kapetanović said, really fascinated... us all members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9664	Thank you. I'm closing up, Mrs. Kapetanović has already discussed it, I'm closing the debate. 127 We move to point 86 Ad. 86. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Auditor General of the BiH Institutions' Office – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly The joint college of both homes is held at the 10th session, held on 29.10.2015, in accordance with Article 24. The law on the revision of BiH institutions and the established obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, laid down that proposal for a conclusion. It is proposed that Members of the Interim Joint Commission should be appointed MPs: Asim Sarajlić, Diana Zelenika and đorċo Krčmar, and delegates Dragutin Rodić, Safet Softić and Bariša Čolak. I'm opening a debate. Discussion, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9666	I will try again as soon as possible because I see, we know for ourselves that we have had almost the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy One, and that we have other commissions that have worked the means of appointment by two contests, so it is no excuse to highlight the mandate in those few days. We all understand what is here, so we need to select a deputy auditor from the Bosniak people's order. Since I see that Mr. Šefik Džaferović, is open to depolitisation of agencies, public institutions, for transparency in the work of all institutions, I propose, and I hope that the SDA will also offer candidates as offered by HDZ, so that you can appoint for example. Mr. Ramiz Džaferović, former Director of the Development Bank or Mr. Kemal Čaušević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9667	Only if I were to fall for the provocations...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9668	I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I now propose that the House declare itself on the unifying of the debate on points 87 to 90 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. So, get ready to vote. I'm putting this motion to a vote. 23 for, against 9, abstention 5. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority, the proposal was adopted. Ad. 87. - 90. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement I'm opening a debate united. 128 Ambassador jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to look at the point of the 89 agenda in the shortest lines. – Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on the State Border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. First of all, I will make remarks of a technical nature, which I hope will be enough not to accept the ratification of the proposed Treaty of Borders. From the very name of the proposed Treaty, I conclude that this is the final Treaty on the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and that it wants to present itself that the border between the two countries has been decided, established and that it is undeniable. The very name of the proposed Ratification Treaty, by my court, is wrong, but it is not only the wrong name but also the procedure for making progress, without the necessary professional actions and activities, to declare the official wording and graphically presented border line. Why can't the proposed Treaty and ultimately not be the final Treaty on the Border between the two neighbouring countries? The reason is that the proposed documents do not contain factually established and uniformly determined data on the state border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, but in these documents, data describing the stretching of the state border on topographic maps measured 1:25,000, and I would like to remind you that one millimeter on that map is 20 metres in nature, which proves enough that it is a description of the state border and its approximate position which will be subject to the consensus as provided for in Article 7 of Article 6 of the proposed contract between the Commission and the Joint Commission. Accordingly, the Treaty in question should have the title – Treaty on the stretching and description of the state border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. As an example, I will give me the international, national practice of our neighbours, i.e. the Treaty between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, now the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia on the stretching and description of the state border. This Treaty which has been proposed for ratification is almost identical according to the content set out in the Treaty between the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Macedonia in 2001, by which they described the state border and authorised it, in Article 5, the Joint Commission to demarcate and mark the common state border line. In accordance with this Treaty, professional operations were later carried out to draw up border documentation which would be an integral part of the Agreement on the Reconstruction, Marking and Maintenance of the Border Line and Border Marks, but I have no information as to whether this Final Last Agreement has been ratified. takoċer, in Article 1 of the proposed law, the wrongly established, excuse me in Article 1, yes, I said well the proposed Treaty was wrongly set out the definition of the state border as a vertical plane that intersects the country's surface with the border line. First of all, the border line is not the direction, the border line is a broken line that connects the breakpoints. Therefore, the state border in this article should be defined as a surface passing through the border line on the ground surface, containing a gravity or vertical direction in each point of the border line, and separating the land area, inland water, airspace and underground. In this article, it is also necessary to establish the concept of a border line in such a way that the border line is a series of points on the ground surface that extends the state border whose coordinates are determined in the country's reference system of both countries. Then, so it was necessary to define what the point of the state border was. The point of the state border is a uniquely defined point with known coordinates and.../the ambassador warns that his time has run out/... define the limit mark as a stabilised point of the state border 129 which directly on the border line or... on the state area marks the border line. Time is very short for this discussion. This proposed Treaty so vaguely describes the state border that it is inappropriate for this description to be found and offer to the House of Representatives to adopt it in such a text. I would like to emphasise on the basis of these.../the Ambassador is warned that his time/... indicators that it is unacceptable to ratify this Treaty as the final Treaty on Borders between the two countries, and I believe that if this Treaty were ratified as the final Treaty on the State Border between the two countries, it would be the cause of misunderstandings and possible processes that would certainly not lead to the state border between the two countries being definitely and finally established. I therefore call on my colleagues not to support this proposal for a ratification decision for the reasons set out above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9671	Thank you. Please, so I give my word to the MPs Hanka Vajzović. Mr. Backović is after that, these are some technical problems about uniting points. gospoċo Vajzović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9672	Thank you very much. I was, when I got the agenda I was really very surprised that this important point was somewhere near the end, the last one. Now that we've united these few points, I'm still very surprised and we still have a five-minute discussion. The border treaty is considered the most important contract in international law, it is not likely to prove to anyone. This is the first such Treaty to distinguish me from the states created by division or division of the former SFRY. Since, on many occasions, on this esteemed House, I have troubled the issue of this Treaty on Borders with Montenegro, then I have asked questions, asked for explanations, even an amendment tried to deliver some kind of an amendment, but none of it was there. I must now say that, here and today, I realized that the effort was in vain, so today we need to ratify the Treaty, which means to put an end to it, there is no further, and that still, here I agree with my colleague Emrić, but still the representatives had no insight into the most important part of that Treaty and that is the Annex 2 to Article 2 of the Treaty. Annex 2 is cartography, so the cards in this ratio of 1:25,000, that's the most important part, but added to me, in this case, in the first variant no, but in the second one added this description, a description of the attachment, that was attachment number 1. text description which, I believe, so no one in this House is worth anything, that's what I would say, pure geodesy, job geometer. We should've delivered the map anyway, given an insight. It could've been on CDs, it could've been somewhere we could've gone to see the classified data, gone to get some insight, looked at it. If we had these, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, you would see what I personally insisted on for a long time, and in principle, that somehow the Commission for Borders, where for almost two decades the plus-minus, almost the same people, the civil servants on which we have spent, past their salaries and jobs on a regular basis, by some calculations... about a million or a million or a half or two. In order to have this Treaty, this is the first one, you would see that, for some reason, the Commission has given the neighbouring Montenegro a single border pocket, under quotes, of about 42 hectares and at the move of the municipalities of Foca-Pljeva, so the area under the name Malinjak. If anyone gets distracted by this 130 that I said that, here's my assessment or assessment, that part of my territory is donated, I have to remind them that, regardless of my insistence, first nobody has ever explained why on that part of the border it's so deviated from an existing Austrian border line. Secondly, that we have never, except in the media and in Montenegrin, believed or not, seen a cartographic picture of that controversial pocket. If you see it here, here I have it here, I don't know if you can see it, it doesn't look small at all, I have another card. Although it is the necessary contribution of the Treaty, which was also addressed by fellow Emrić because he stands in Article 2. Third, that is, not only forest wealth, but ore finds, a long-known exploited lead and zinc mine. And that's what I learned from the Montenegrin media, when they wrote about exactly that and my request. Fourthly, I must remind you that no one has the right or property of one/1 to give in to another state. At least this commission could have done it. And to recap, excuse me, time has been cut short for five minutes, but I have to say this, regarding this Treaty of Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, the most mentioned was Sutorin. In that question, you're witnesses, I haven't even entered, there are enough of them that are, no matter what the public really shared on it, and personally I don't think we've had a good approach to this issue either. So I wasn't talking about Sutorina, but I was looking for an answer – why in the area of this Malinjak is far from the existing border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to our damage. Because if this goes without a question, such behaviour and answers, I wonder what follows in other contracts, the one with Croatia where we have four times the border line 1.001 km and what happens if this becomes a clock, if it becomes a practice that a dozen or twenty civil servants, including a subcommittee, will willingly draw their own lines, justifying them with streams, rocks or provisions of the Treaty, one provision is such that in exceptional cases it can enter 150 metres. And here we are, what's relevant, at the Malinjak in 900 meters deep, and then 840 in width, because I was able to kind of decrypt the description, uh, the boundaries. Here, the end, since in my questions so far, I have never received a valid answer, not even an explanation, nor my request to review this ground, for these reasons for this Treaty of course I cannot vote, I will not vote, I will not support it and I will join the appeal that no other, because there are many vague things.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9673	Thank you. Replica, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9674	I thank my colleague Vajzović for these details that follow today's debate, so I want to tell my colleague that he is right when he says that a geodetic profession is very important here. Because basically these jobs are the jobs of geodetic professions, modern geodetic methods and measurements. Since I'm a graduate geodesy engineer, geodeta, then I know what the procedures are and what everything needs to be done to ensure that the state border between the two countries is uniform and fully determined and determined. I cited the practice between the two countries that led these proceedings. So a contract like this could only be a starting point which gives the Joint Commission guidance on how, in which way, it will access identification, labelling, stabilisation and determination of state-level crossing points. So the complete data on the state border must be done on the basis of a contract like this, where the two states give, in a way, a project mission to the Joint State Commission to do it as prescribed by this Treaty. And later, with 131 complete elaborate or state border data, access to ratification of the Treaty between the two countries is meant for some final definition of the state border. We don't have the conditions here. We here arbitraryly set aside the state line. The topographic charts of criterion 1:25,000 are not bases on which the state border can be unilaterally established, gentlemen. That is why I appeal and want to direct this House to do this job responsibly in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as other countries in our neighbourhood do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9675	Thank you. Replica, MP Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9676	I'll be very brief. It is also three years ago that the Treaty provides for time to mark the border, so to put that stone where those breaking points are. Here is the key problem that I don't know if anyone is, I ask the constant question – did anyone see the cards in that ratio, regardless of what 1:25,000 means? Why do we have to vote here for this, and if no one, just on the map, sees it, here I don't know if it's irresponsible or what kind of relationship we have to our border. I don't think we have the right to do that. The relationship to our border to move, the location of the ore, the forest treasure, wealth and everything else, who has the right to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9677	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9678	Thank you. Since I have already spoken on this subject of borders four times after this speaker, and since I know that the non-domestic relationship of those working on solving the problem of the state borders, and since I know that it is more important to them, I will now quote an article from 1941 that was written by Professor Dr. Šabanović – many of us prefer here rather than our own. We believe more that a Tibetanac than our most loved and able to give us more. We enjoy the evil of our neighbor and admire something that is not good, and it comes to us from who is our neighbor. Look out, he used neighbors and neighbors. Very interesting. This article was published prior to the start of World War II in these areas, when they split up that country as a newspaper in March 1941. I can quote it right now, I know it, because you're looking at me, I'm going to give it to you, I know it by heart because it's talking about mentality, and it's like it's being done today, like it's being painted now. Someone wants to rob this country. You know well that the agreement between the presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia is signed ha, ha, ha, then, and then only one man says in Croatia – we will not and will not ratify, so we will make some new ones. In Bosnia we know exactly what Bosnino is and I'm surprised by those who are from that space, Gacko, Nevesinje, Trebinje, that they want to leave so many parts of something that is primal, familyly, whatever you want, theirs. I need these citizens to look into their eyes tomorrow. In front of the political option I represent, I can only say, I appeal to all those who have sincerely sworn on the BiH Constitution and the preservation of 132 territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina not to support something that gives ground to Bosnia and Herzegovina's corruption. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9679	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9680	Thank you. I call to vote against, against...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9681	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we came up with this problem in one way, I'd say, an irresponsible way. Unresponsible primarily to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, I suggest we not give consent to ratification and return the Treaty on the State Border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro to the Presidency. For one simple reason, the presidency needs to establish a unique position that currently does not have a stance on Bosnia and Herzegovina's policy on negotiating borders with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina's neighbouring neighbouring countries. Namely, this is what Zaim mentioned, in the Treaty on the Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, it is said that it comes from the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina established by the Berlin Congress, and the Treaty on the Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro departs from the existing situation at the time of the mere recognition of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we don't have a single policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina to negotiate borders. And if we listen well, if we should listen to the voice from our neighbouring Croatia, then the question of Školj and the top of the peninsula of Klek is already announced or problemed. I think that by ratifying this Treaty on the existing borders found at the moment of me being able to recognise the state, we will open or give Croatia an additional argument that this issue, around this školj and the Klek Peninsula summit, is now justified, argumentated, this one, continues to be problematicd further and that perhaps at one point we come into a situation to remain without those parts of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There has been a lot of talk on this subject, but here I will remind us only briefly that the AVNOJ Presidency on November 25th of the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina identified with the borders of the Berlin Congress of 1878, where we had this area of Sutorina and Kruševica within the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next up in '36. when the Government of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia singled it out from Trebiška srect in Bokokokotorski srect, and according to that, until the very day of ZAVNOBiH when Bosnia and Herzegovina was defined at the Berlin borders, which means both Sutorin and this kruševica, it is in favour that we must not give up that claim, because the presidency of AVNOJ has annulled all the legal gains of the previous organisational units of the former or then Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which means that it has returned AVNOJ to the borders, that it has raised Sutorina and Kruševica in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 133 Descriptors, frauds that have been happening and have no written leads and those other events have inevitably changed nothing, and the lawyers know it better than I do. I think that today we must not make a mistake and ratifying this Agreement without part of the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whatever it means in the international relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina or in another way, because the threat that we will not be in the EU until we have resolved the borders, the threat that we will not be able to resolve the borders, is not possible as a threat, because we have Croatia as an example that with unresolved borders with Slovenia has entered, here with Bosnia and Herzegovina, entered both the EU and the MAP, and that in such a way we must not allow, knowing and that fact, to be deceived and to correct a historical error that occurred in some period, here when I was neither born nor most of us here. So I would ask my colleagues not to ratify this Agreement today, to return to the Presidency to consider these facts and to conclude this story in one other way or simply possible way through the borders that Bosnia and Herzegovina has defined at the Berlin Congress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9683	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9684	Tonight, so in less than four hours, it's 25.11.2015. We mark it as the Statehood Day of Bosnia and Herzegovina. November 25, '43. ZAVNOBiH councilors restored Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood. They restored statehood and confirmed Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders. And which ironies, ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood day, we will, several hours before that holiday, give up one part of our border fought by the ZAVNOBiH councilors, and why not tell the AVNOJ council members, which is why part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory has never been taken from Bosnia and Herzegovina by legal means and procedures. In the last 316 years, a lot of international contracts have been signed, a lot of me international conventions. And in all these conventions, from the Karlovak Peace, Pojarevack, Belgrade, the Berlin Congress, the Vidovdan Constitution, to the four constitutions of the SFRY, none of them had ever concluded that Bosnia and Herzegovina was within the limits established at the Berlin Congress, which was also confirmed by the Yugoslav Assembly, i.e.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9685	Thank you. Replica, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9686	I thank the chairman. In order for the state border to be unilaterally established and determined, it is necessary to have in technical terms the conditions laid down, i.e. the necessary documentation to determine the same limit. At this point, we don't have it. I, too, have done so in my previous presentation and stated that it is wrong to call this Treaty a Treaty on the Borders, as a final Treaty, this is already a Treaty on the Description of the Border, followed by the procedures, as referred to in Article 7 of this Treaty, that the Joint Commission will execute, i.e. to draw up documentation on the common state border and in which it will be described the way it is marked and the position of the border markings will be determined. And then who's going to ratify what the State Commission is doing, what are we going to call this Treaty, and will that documentation come at all to confirm this House? Other countries do as I say. The Republic of Croatia has already prescribed what is an integral part of the Treaty on the Border between the two countries. There is no such documentation in this Treaty in these Annexes. These are just descriptions, text descriptions and maps that cannot unambiguously define the state border. Even in this text description, if you're reading it, I've got here, I could at least give you half an hour at least to explain how inaccurate this description is. It has not been determined whether the border is going in the middle of the road, left or 135 to the right of the road in the direction of the description. Whether the border goes in the middle of the river, in which way it will be identified, when this description of so many vague formulations that certainly can't lead to what we want to know being on the ground and identified. So at this point, we don't know what the state border is between the Republic of Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9687	Replica, MP Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9688	I thank the chairman. So, I just want to work, if I can say so, some truths here, that our bodies that we named in this House and in other bodies, so they've been working on this issue for years and I'm that witness. I am a member of the Constitutional Committee, so I think that we have been discussing this issue, even in this body's organisation, almost from the beginning of the mandate. There have been several gatherings that neither Mrs. Hanko nor Mr. jasmin, with all due respect, nor Denis's colleague, therefore, very professional debates in the organization of the Constitutional Commission, where they were distinguished professors, talked about all these topics, I didn't see you asking there. I'm just saying for the sake of manipulation, so people have been professionally explaining it. Several times he returned to the Constitutional Commission, and it could then be clarified. People were clear to me, people were clear to me, they explained to me, they were people from our Commission, I didn't see you on those committees that were open to the public. So, I'm just saying don't press here on our, uh, thinking. So, just as you have now listed a series of data for which, talking about these details now, I don't know, from the geodetic profession, what, how, where is the stream, where is not a stream, so the simple question is whether this Parliament can do so here and debate. I have attended at least two such, at least two meetings organised by the Constitutional Legal Commission, very important discussions, very convincing discussions with my international aspect and people are... all these questions that you are now asking us again here. I'm just for the record, so the debates were, as far as anyone was involved, I don't know, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9689	Hanka Vajzović, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9690	... I'm gonna replicate, actually explain to my colleague Emrić, but this is how I have to replicate it. So what kind of way is this? I'm not a member of the Constitutional Commission, I'm not invited. All day debate, of course, the public debate that took place here, all day long and my colleague Bećirović, we were just sitting next to each other, we spent the whole day. How it's like that from the cider here to bring, it really doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. I was where I was supposed to be. Of course, in this debate, there is a problem, people are invited to confirm what they wanted to confirm. What kind of experts, one methodology, another sociologist, don't. About this, just fellow Emrić and the others to be clear. You're wrong when you say it's not a contract. This is the Treaty, now that it's engaged another question. Article 2 says - the data on the extension of the state border are contained in the following border documents which form part of this Treaty. Now the problem is that they're gone, and no one showed them to us, and no one seems to have seen them at all. That's the other one. Topographic map scale, etc. The text 136 description exists and it is an integral part. That's why they gave it to us, because we don't understand it. The Commission sent this expert to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9691	Replica, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9692	My dear colleague Lovrinović, I feel very upset here. So, I was here for a public hearing, participated. And that public debate was attended by prominent experts in the area of history/history or history, geodetics, no wonder, and here we are on this matter fat, but this opinion from this public debate is someone only, and you're talking about the debate that you organised and took part in by my fellow engineers, sociologists, polythologists, people who don't have connections, or touch points with this. I ask you to take the debates in this House that have been received, the records, the stenograms, please take them out and give them to the gentleman, because by name and last name I have called my colleagues, where they have the courage to talk about it, when they have never had a touchy point in life with that problem. Among other things, Lavić.I don't want to count. I feel humiliated to talk about my country this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9693	Thank you. Replica, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9694	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Lovrinović, I have in my hands the text, Mr Lovrinović, the unauthorized transcript of the public debate on the Sutorina issue organised by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House on 24 February 2015. Is that the Constitutional Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9695	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9696	Well, I'm talking about this. So this one didn't work because she didn't go to the mill the one you think she should make water. If for you, Omer Ibrahimagić is not an expert, professor of Utah Law, an eminent name in the Constitutional Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Europe and the world, and his opinion coincides with discussions that Bosnia and Herzegovina is within the current borders on the basis of the Berlin Congress in 1878, all of what we have discussed so far. So, uh, Prof. Dr. Omer Ibrahimagić is irrelevant because he does not say what some expect him to say, to tear off a piece of this country to some Montenegro that has no legal act to say it is theirs. And it was organized by the Constitutional Commission. And since it didn't suit you, you didn't like your conversators, then you gathered some of the conversators who were answering you, who were driving you to the mill, so that I wouldn't tell you what you were doing with them, to tell you what you're bringing out now. It is the sale and betrayal of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can't do that. 137
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9697	Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9698	You can't talk like that either, Mr. Sokolović. That debate that I'm talking about was organized by the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, it was open to debate, you could come and say it all the same, and I would listen to you. And I didn't say any of my views about what they convinced me and convinced me to do. Don't beat my mouth, I'm nothing here, neither you nor Mr. Backović. He's no expert, neither are you. You're not experts either. Well, then what do you convince me of? Neither is Hanka, Mrs. Hanko. What do you convince me of, if you're not experts? I've been listening to experts, and I have an impression that I'm going to vote on. Therefore, you have your own impression, but then it was organized by the Constitutional Commission, not some of us. Which one of us? Nikola Lovrinović organized it, didn't he? The president of the Constitutional Committee was Mr Komšić. And then he came, me, him, Mr. Džaferović, and I don't know who else. Nobody wanted to come. You were listening to one of the stands, you needed another, so go ahead and discuss it. So I could hear it all and then, you came. That's all I ever said. I didn't say anything else. I didn't disabling that first debate or the other one. But I'm saying it's been a long debate and just for the sake of the truth, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9699	Well, I don't know, we've been discussing this matter for hours and hours, and for days, I don't know what it is now, what's the reason for this debate to break down? Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9700	Well, it's probably the reason for this debate that this is our last chance to discuss it. After that, only historians, polythologists and other scientists will be able to write about it. So it's no wonder we're discussing this. My colleague Lovrinović is the least of the problems in this story. All the debate so far has pointed to both geographical and historical, and legal reasons, and now we see that there are also serious geopolitical reasons. And it is now clear that only the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina could go to the International Court and that it could only return to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it's meant in public when it's transferred from that argument to media spin, it's placed what thesis? For God's sake, Republika Srpska will go out to sea. And what's the real truth? Namely, we've made an insight into all the stenograms from the so-called session. RS Parliaments since '92-'95. And there's a stenogram that applies, and a part of the debate is about going out to sea. And you know what people said, literally? We're not interested in going out to sea on the Black Sea coast. We want to go out to sea on this territory here, is it, the Republic of Croatia. And what's said here, what one academic said, and then they passed on, we know very well. And this academic quoted him as saying on December 2, 1992, he signed the Resolution of the Congress of Bosnian-Muslim intellectuals in which he stood – in his thousand-year history, Bosnia went through several forms of statehood. In all its forms and changes, Bosnia has preserved its legal-political specificity and borders, and this is confirmed by international agreements on Bosnia, Karlovac Peace, Poger peace, Belgrade peace, Sveštovski peace, Vienna Congress, Berlin Congress, etc., etc. Just so much for the consistency of individuals in this country. 138
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9701	Thank you. Replica, second replica Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9702	We'll start here, we'll learn to count well, first, second, second, first.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9703	It says.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9704	No, no, it's okay, it's okay. It would just be good to count something else - what is our final effect. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So you'll end this easily, only history will remember us by something that's very ugly, because here those jams will take us... Parliament. That's what he did. That's what he did. That's what he did. I ask you not to generalize. I'm, I don't want to be, it's not fair to people to talk names here. What was on your board, in the microphone, this is going on and it's recording sound, these are people who have no idea what we're talking about today. And whoever called them is committing a crime against Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's not one that deals with constitutional law, geography, geodesy, you don't wave your head, you have your names in front of you, so read them and tell us what they're doing, where, at which college they work, what their works are published, what is the domain of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9706	Nikola Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9707	Oh, gentlemen of the chair, esteemed colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9708	Please, please, peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9709	Let's try to get out of this. I fear that you representatives of the parliamentary majority will adopt us both within Bosnia and Herzegovina and with neighbours. What the hell makes you put agendas where you don't have consent? Or if you do, let's get this over with. I'm afraid this irresponsible relationship didn't catch the rabbit's speed, but... when the country's relationship with its neighbours. So they have agreements that are standing, which are not yet ratified, etc. If there are any dilemmas around which you can raise any tension within the country that you put on the agenda? Is the opposition pushing you, Nikola Špirić? de us, do you have the majority to ratify this Agreement? But I'm telling you, whatever the result today is, we've done damage, we've ratified it, we haven't ratified it. Well, that's the result of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9710	Well, it's not the result of our work, it's the work that started in the commissions a long time ago. Thus, this congregation majority has nothing to do with the work. Lazar Prodanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9711	Well, we're dealing with nothing but a national... that has nothing to do with reality. How is it possible for people who swear that the international recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been established, so the rules of the Badinter Commission and that borders within the republic of the former SFRY are the administrative state border? How is it possible to appeal to a Berlin Congress that has nothing to do with it, if we now mention what the agreement was between us, no, we can't even assume, even assuming that we are, therefore, on the day of the adoption of Decision '92. In the years since Bosnia and Herzegovina's international recognition, if all this were true, no international act would have given Bosnia and Herzegovina the right to the territory which is, in fact, because we owned it, was owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time of its decision on independence. And the second question, when you're talking, is really true, it's not true, Mr. Bećirović, what you're saying you followed the minutes of the National Assembly of the RS. It is true that it was such a media spin after the Dayton Agreement, already on 22 November '95. in the year, that Republika Srpska will have an exit to the sea where this area is listed. But it was a public entertainment story. We're having fun myself, we're confrontational, we're talking about something, we're making relations worse inside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and how our neighbors are going to experience us in that sense, it's just as amazing. So I think we're wasting our time on this. And one more thing, this is an agreement that is absolutely in line with my international law watchful. Only if the MPs think they should take the boots and, on behalf of the State Borders Commission, make a distinction between the two states. So this is how we act, that we're top-notch, with all due respect, you can say a thousand times that you're a geodetic, but you don't have anything to do with this. You have nothing to do with this because that's what experts do...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9712	I'm finishing up, Mr. Emrić, you no longer have the right to do what you signed up for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So I'm finishing the debate. Fifteen minutes' vote, 9:05 p.m. We're going to vote for the 20th session of the House of Representatives. Please register all before the vote. Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives. 140 please, so for 36, against nothing, abstention 1. Record accepted. We are going to point 3 – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the terrorist attack in Rajlovac, as well as the event of 20.11.2015, related to General Ante Jeleč – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut. No need, I think, to read it. For 29, v. 1, abstention 7. General and entity... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9714	Okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9715	And what, again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So we have to do it again then... Let's do it again. For 30, against one, abstention six. The general and entity majority exist. We've adopted the conclusion of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Is there any need for me to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9717	No, we all have conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9718	Prepare to vote. For 27, against nothing, abstention 10. The general majority of that, the entity majority doesn't exist. Since we don't have a third member of the College, we leave the alignment for later. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do it again? _________(?) 141 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9721	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9722	Yeah, we're going to point 5. – Consideration Information on human rights violations and freedoms, and labour rights by the management of the company "Boksit“ Milići – Proposer: Member of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Pandurević, who have been modified to the suggestions of Šefik Džaferović and Momčilo Novaković. For 23, against six, abstention eight. There's a general and entity majority. We adopted the conclusions of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. I'm now putting the motion to vote on points 6 to 78 of this package. Prepare to vote. In 30, against three, abstention four. The entity and general majority exist. So we're voting in the six-to-eight package. – reports from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2014. Points 6 to 78. – The adoption of the report on the financial audit of the BiH institutions for 2014 with conclusions from the Commission's summary opinion on finance and budget and conclusions from individual Commission opinions. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We'll have to do it again. Please repeat this vote. Vote now. So, for 31, against 1, abstention 5. There's a general and entity majority, it's adopted. 142 We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević. Should I read the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9724	We don't have to, we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9725	Prepare to vote. For 20, against seven, abstentions 10. There's a general and entity majority. We adopted the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević. We're going to point 79. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Instituting public internal financial controls (PIFs) in BiH institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion of the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Prepare to vote. For 34, v. 1, abstention 2. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. So the next point is 80. – Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. For 33, v. 1, abstention 3. The general and entity majority exist, the report was adopted. Point 81. – Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and police officers in peace support operations between 1 January and 30 June 2015, material from the BiH Presidency. We're voting for adoption of the report. Stand by. For 37, no objection and abstentions, adopted. We are going to vote on Proposed Opinion Dušanka Majkić's Opinion's Opinion. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? _________(?) There isn't. If you don't get ready to vote. For 34, v. 1, abstention 2. The general and entity majority exist. The conclusion of Dušanka Majkić's letter was adopted. Moving to point 82. – Information on the Annual Training and Exercise Plan of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2016, the BiH Ministry of Defence material. 143 We vote on receiving information. Prepare to vote. For 37, I don't mind, no abstentions, adopted. Let's go to point 83. – Information on the problem of resolving the permanent accommodation of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption in eastern Sarajevo, the Commission's material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9727	The conclusions come after that, vote on receiving information. Listen to what the man tells you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9728	For 31, v. 1, abstention 5. The general and entity majority exist. We've adopted the point. We are voting on the proposal by Aleksandra Pandurević to adopt the conclusions adopted by the Commission on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, with the amendment at the end of point 1 of the conclusion, which is – do you want me to read these conclusions? _________(?) You got it. Let me read. Under: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council of Ministers to put out of effect an emergency decision on the distribution of BiH institutions' office space in eastern Sarajevo, "Operary Messenger", No. 17/15, of 02.03.2015, in the section relating to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, and to adequately address the issue of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Corruption, because the space allocated does not meet its needs, and to consider the possibility that the area listed on the Street of Dabrobosanska in eastern Sarajevo should be fully assigned to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council of Ministers to raise the issue of responsibility in the BiH institutions' Joint Affairs Service for failing to obtain and allocate premises for the needs of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption in eastern Sarajevo. 144 We vote on the proposal. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9730	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9731	After this, it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9732	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9733	Well, there's after that, so here's the deal, so we'll see if this goes away. [[Common discussion]] We repeat the vote. So, for 27, there are no, abstentions of 10. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusions of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević were adopted. Now that he's already contained in that conclusion your conclusion, there's no need for us to vote on him.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9735	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9736	You want to put it to a vote? Also, I think... [[Common discussion]] Yours, here is to read your conclusion – It is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers to decide that the purchased space in eastern Sarajevo in the range of 407,09 m2 is fully assigned to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. It's already contained.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9738	Is that contained in the previous conclusion? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9739	You want to vote? I am putting the vote and the conclusion of Parliament's Majkić. Prepare to vote. 145 For 19, v. 5, abstention 13. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion of the letter, Majkić, was also adopted. We're going to point 84. – The selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Supply Agency, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance. We are voting on the selection of four members of the Management Board that you have received in the Commission's Charter. No need to read names?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9740	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9741	For or against the list, right. For six against twenty-three, abstention eight. There's no general majority. So the Commission's proposal was rejected. Let's go to 85. – The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. We vote on the appointment of Professor Dr. the science of Ivanka Marković as a member of the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency as a representative of the Acadamic Community and the replacement of Anes Ličine as a member of the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency as a representative of the non-governmental sector. Prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, together in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9743	Together, together, it's all a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9744	For 18, against 16, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority, adopted. Point 86. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of Deputy 146 of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. For 25, v. 9, abstention 3. The general and entity majority exist, so it's adopted. We will go to point 87, we will not combine the vote on these international agreements – Giving consent to ratification of Annex IV of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of law and/or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. For 36, there are no, abstentions 1. The data is consent to the ratification of Annex IV to the Agreement. We're going to point 88. – Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the construction of a state bridge across the Drina River with accompanying road facilities at Bratunac – Ljubovija. Prepare to vote. For 36, there is no, abstention one, adopted. We're going to point 89. – Giving consent to ratification of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's a problem with the vote, is there? Okay. We'll do it again. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. _________(?) It's not working.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9748	Is it back? Is it okay now? Let's try it again, come on, again, 89.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9749	Point 89 of the re-election. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9750	Nothing, charts.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9751	He can't. So I'm asking you to prepare the charts, and I'm asking the service to prepare to count. So, we are voting on giving consent to ratifying the Treaty on the State Border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Who's in? Who's against it? Ten against. Who's being held back? 4 abstentions. So, with 22 for, 10 against, 4 abstentions. With the necessary entity majority, approval has been given for ratification of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. We're going to point 90. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Improving the infrastructure of the regional basic transport network in BiH – rail transport – concluded between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's try again electronically if possible. Do you have it now? [[Common discussion]] For 33, no. What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9754	Never mind. 148 _________(?) ... To sign up by name and last name... to know exactly... don't run away, he's... [[no microphone turned on]] Finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9756	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9757	Wait, wait, Sadik, Sadik. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9758	Oh, please. What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know, you see, I had nothing to do with the technique. Really how...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9760	Have Sadik come by...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-11-24-0.u9761	Wait till we see if we can do it again, here's to... What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] One moment. [[Common discussion]]
