ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7049	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, distinguished guests, media representatives, I welcome you on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and I am opening the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary House. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. The meeting also invited representatives of the BiH Appeal Office and the BiH Steering Board, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. I have no notice of the justification for the absence, only Mrs. Diana Zelenika reported that she would be late for the beginning of the session itself. Currently in the O.R., according to the service report, 37 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you are indicated in the invitation to the session and in accordance with Article 171. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Šemsudin Mehmedović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the announcement of questions sent in preparation for the 13th session of the House, but then no response was given in oral form and it was concluded that the answer would be requested at the first next session of the House to ask questions in oral form. I note that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, meanwhile, provided answers in writing to the issue. Saša Magazinović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Nikola Lovrinović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers of Justice, Mensura Beganović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Hanka Vajzović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Salko Sokolović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers and Ministers of Finance and BiH and Nermina Kapetanović – the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs. These announcements shall be in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would like to inform you, I have been written here, that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided in accordance with Article 2 171(2). Rules of Procedure. We have sent a letter to the relevant Public TV service in BiH, but the services inform me that no direct TV transmission is provided at this time, and I only inform you that you have that fact in mind. I have no reason to. We'll see later. We are now moving on to the realization of our agenda, that is, this opening part. The word is Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7050	Dear Chairman, members and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I, as you remember and as you said in the introduction, asked questions about the status of the first protected corruption reporter, Mrs or Miss Irina Lovrić. The issue was addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I finally got an answer from the director of the agency and, of course, I got an answer from Minister Semiha Borovac. I am pleased with the answer, especially from Minister Semiha Borovac, but I am not satisfied with the situation, because those who do such a form of non-discipline within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been disciplined today or at least initiated a disciplinary procedure, which I expect to see happen in the coming period. On the other hand, a very ugly message is being sent that all future corruption applicants are, in a way, under the pressure that Mrs Lovrić is, for the reason that she has, here she has been able to report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I believe that this agency, whose answer I am not satisfied with, must be honest, that this agency needs to do much more to protect any corruption rapporteurs from any inconvenience they might have at work, within the framework of BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7051	Thank you very much. Council of Ministers, no need for any comment? Okay. Let's move on, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7052	Chairman, are these comments or are they questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7053	Questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7054	Questions, good. My question is for the esteemed Minister Bevanda and concerns compliance with the legislation regarding payment of VAT and the issue of fiscal bills by the legal persons in terms of possible changes in the law and other activities towards the introduction of order in the payment of VAT. We're all witnessing that in the city's cores you can sit in cafes, shop shop shopping, and that, it's rare for you to get a fiscal bill. There are announcements of action so-called action. which last ten days, are published in the media, people in those ten days issue an account, after which the old practice continues. If you ask for a fiscal bill, then it's usually a cash register that's broken or some 3 other technical problems. At a time when we have huge problems with the budget, where we see announcements from entity governments to borrow from commercial banks, and without it all, I believe that there should be a lot more order in this area and concrete activities to prevent the collection of VAT, i.e. the theft of money from the budget in this way. Those who steal the 17% VAT nowhere have seen that they give citizens 17% lower prices. Whether it's political support or not, I don't want to go into it, but there's a problem the way I described it. I know what the authorities are, but also to know that the Council of Ministers must show responsibility, launch concrete activities, and I'm interested in what these activities are?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7055	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7056	Dear President, members of the College, distinguished representatives and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I, we have agreed to respond in two parts, and the first part of the answer will be given by me and by the second director of the Department of Irregular Taxation. In accordance with the Law on an indirect taxation system, BiH was established as an indirect tax administration as an independent administrative unit implementing legal and other regulations in this area. There is no legal jurisdiction over this institution, the Ministry of Finance and the vault. It is also prescribed that the administration is the only body in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is responsible for implementing legal rules on indirect taxation and policies established by the Council of Ministers at the front of the Management Board, as well as for the collection and distribution of indirect taxes on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Also, according to the Tax Act on Extra Value, the administration is the only one who controls... and collects VAT. Therefore, compliance with the legislation regarding payment of VAT is within the authority of the Administration. The Management Board shall be responsible for the launch of legal provisions relating to indirect taxation and their amendments, including legislation on tax rates and structures, if deemed necessary in order to implement the law. To be clear, you've got the address wrong about the fiscal accounts. In fact, the issue of fiscal accounts by the legal persons is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity, in the Federation of BiH, the issue of fiscal accounts, their registration and control is carried out under the Law on Fiscal Systems, which was adopted by the Federation Parliament, and in Republika Srpska, it is the Law on fiscal cash registers, which also passed by the Parliament of the RS. Here, so much in this section and now the director of the board.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7057	Saša, are you looking for something again? Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7058	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7059	Yeah, here you go, Mr. Džakula. Go ahead, you guys just keep going with the answer. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7060	Thank you very much. Dear President, members of the College, honourable MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, allow me first of all to welcome you. I am grateful for the question asked by Mr. Representative. The threshold for registering value added tax is 50 thousand or 50 thousand KM. VAT shall be paid in accordance with Article 3. The law on the transport of goods and services rendered with compensation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What do I mean? Therefore, entity tax administrations are competent, competent to control whether a company or an entrepreneur has independently crossed the tax threshold of activity. We have a phenomenon that a lot of taxpayers have shown traffic close to 50,000 marks but have not crossed the threshold enough to register VAT. The administration is not competent, is not competent to control such debtors and is therefore the basic jurisdiction of the entity tax administrations to supply traffic data. We have launched joint data exchange activities, and the Office for indirect taxation is the initiator of the whole data exchange. I have to say that this exchange is going pretty hard on us and that we're working very hard on the data exchange. It should also be said, from the board's point of view, that final consumption is the basis for the distribution from a single account, in order for that legislation to be done at a state level. Thank you very much. If it's necessary, I'll explain it further.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7061	Thank you very much. You don't have to sign up, Mr. Magazinović. I'm definitely obliged to ask you what you think about the answer. Well, now I ask you, will you answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7062	Thank you for asking the chairman. I think I got two extremely bad answers. That's the answer to your question, and now I'm going to comment on the answers. I didn't get the address wrong. I have so much experience to know whose jurisdiction and understand it, however, the political responsibility not to close my eyes to this problem must exist in the Council of Ministers, of course, as in entity governments. So, the answer to my question – whether an initiative is being launched, whether it will move its finger to do anything, initiated, using its political credibility and position to introduce order in the payment of VAT and to start getting fiscal bills, is the answer – we will not. And this is a very bad message that we received today from the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a bad message from the director of the Directorate of Direct Taxation. And if I'd known you were going to agree this way, I wouldn't have asked you because your answer sent a message to all those who don't issue fiscal bills and steal taxes in that way, to keep doing it, that nothing is happening on this issue and that they are now free to do so, to continue with their practice. So, I am very unhappy with the answer, and I will be pleased if this brief discussion on this matter initiates anyone from the Council of Ministers and those who have a connection with this area to initiate any steps to introduce order in the state, when it comes to issuing fiscal accounts. A very bad message that people can continue with that practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7063	Thank you, Mr. Magazinović. 5 The word has Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7064	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, all present here at this session. So I asked one question, or I'm going to ask it now in oral form, and I delivered it in time, so I can prepare myself for an answer, and that's what it says -- why doesn't the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the public get to know the list of war crimes cases, as well as all legal statuses of each case, so I've put in brackets an investigation suspended, lack of evidence, investigation in progress, investigation at the end or so on, so there may be possible answers? One of the opportunities is a little bit of an explanation. In fact, many people in Bosnia and Herzegovina were exposed to various types of injuries and torture during the war. They're looking for answers in different ways. On a daily basis, the issues of different institutions, including us representatives, have been done or seemed to investigate certain events and to process them, which have been violated by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Rules of War. Very often, there is no answer, nor is any event documented at all, and whether anything is done to shed light on the same person, or possibly the perpetrator of the crime, to be called to account. If the list of cases under investigation cannot be provided to the public, why and what is the way in which an interested family or party gets an answer on the status of the case they are interested in? The publication of that list would certainly avoid confusion and speculation as to how only a certain number of cases are concerned, to select cases, to cover only a certain space and so on. The publication of such information may open up the possibility of a faster and better finding of evidence, interested people would know that certain events are not being processed at all, and would open up the possibility of initiating proceedings before authorised bodies and the like. In this way, it would also avoid manipulation of any kind, and I believe that the prosecution's work would become more effective, so if you want to be more transparent. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7065	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7066	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and representatives and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Statistical data on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office are being submitted for the previous year during the calendar year, so I will remind you that these data have been sent to the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014. In this report, the number of convictions, charges filed, the number of open investigations and the number of suspended investigations were held. So it's just statistical data. The Prosecution of the Prosecutor's Office for Non-disclosure of Information gives the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH. In fact, the prosecutor is able to practically conduct an investigation in secret, and eventually hear from a suspect who can only then find out that an investigation has been conducted against him. To this legislator 6 leaves jurisdiction and gives responsibility for the whole process of disclosing and enlightening the prosecution in such a way that the investigation takes place in full the authority and duty of the prosecutor, restricting judicial intervention in the investigation procedure only in cases where the investigation, i.e. certain actions and measures carried out in the investigation procedure are products or may produce such consequences which may be violated or restricted by some of the basic human rights and freedoms of the citizens, such as the search of the apartment. Therefore, the exclusive jurisdiction to conduct an investigation has been given by law to the prosecutor. The D.A.'s office is deciding on the initiation of an investigation. That decision is made independently by the prosecutor in the form of orders to carry out the investigation. The law expressly does not require the prosecutor to notify the suspect of the order to conduct an investigation. From the very detection of the criminal offence, the CAP allows the prosecutor to refer the investigation to the direction which will enable him to effectively refer the case to the court, i.e. to bring and represent the indictment in the main investigation. I want to point out the following about this question. The state's strategy for working on war crimes cases, adopted in 2009, envisions the establishment at the level of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, a centralised record of all war crimes cases in the domestic judiciary that will be updated regularly. Centralised records were established during 2011, so with a significant delay compared to the deadlines set by the strategy. Also, following the establishment of a war crimes case database with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, there have been some difficulties with the use of pdoataka bases by district and county prosecutors. Since a significant number of parallel investigations in war crimes cases were recorded in the previous period, either by event or by person, the supervisory authority responsible for monitoring the implementation of the strategy, prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors' Office and prosecutors of the county and district prosecutors, and prosecutors of the Brcko District Prosecutors have suggested that during the opening of an investigation into war crimes cases, whether known or unknown perpetrators, they have previously carried out checks in the war crimes database whether an investigation has already been launched against the person. The verification criteria are - event, suspect, damaged. So, according to the Strategy to update the war crimes database, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH are in charge, and the data are used by judicial institutions that process these criminal cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7067	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovirnović, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7068	A brief comment. So I believe that the minister used the data, or facts of the law, as he himself said, so my question did not go to the suspect, but to the event. So now there's this matter of interpretation. But I'd like to get this answer in writing, so I'll see what I can do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7069	Here, you've heard the request of an esteemed representative. Therefore, I ask that you deliver the answer in writing. Mrs. Mensura Beganović has a word. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7070	Thank you. Honored chairman, co-chaired, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers. My question is to the Council of Ministers or to be more precise to the minister of civil affairs, as it refers to the education that is in the ministry's portfolio. So, – What is the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding participation in PISA testing and research in 2018? It's an evaluation, an international knowledge assessment and competence of 15-year-old students. Has the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education submitted a request to the Council of Ministers and, if the request is made, is the application approved and, if not, why not? I will briefly explain what this is about, given that it may be less known in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the PISA testing is one test and research of the international level. It is a Programme for International Student SS and it is the largest international educational research that examines the knowledge and competences of students aged 15 years, it is actually a category of students who are in the first grade of secondary schools. It is conducted in three-year cycles and every country participating in this study, i.e. research, gets results that are good and reliable indicators for the assessment of the situation in the education system and for the possibility of corrective action to improve the education system, which in Bosnia and Herzegovina is definitely one of the good reasons to be involved in such an international study. Unlike other knowledge studies, i.e. competence, the PISA study does not treat and evaluate the study resulting in a check on the ability of students to reproduce acquired knowledge, but for the application of acquired knowledge, which is very often a deficiency in our education system, when students leave or students leave the education system, then the knowledge they collect, which they acquire, is very often applied in real terms and in their professional work and life. More than half a million students from 74 countries of the world, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, participated in the last PISA survey, and that is the only country in the region, so I would say from Europe, which does not participate in this kind of research, and it would be really sad not to have it happen in the next three years. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are very happy to see and hear that our students achieve excellent results in mathematical, physical, informative Olympics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7071	Thank you. Minister, here you go. The Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7072	Dear Chairman, esteemed members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed deputies. Of course, I will deliver this in writing answer to this question. He needs to be explained in detail, but what I can say is that there is an apparent failure of the Preschool and Primary Education Agency here. The information I have is that they are justifying themselves that they did not have enough financial resources for the project, but surely for such a project that is of great importance to Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be an excuse for what you have stated. 8 Mostly when I get a detailed answer from the competent agency, I will forward it to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7073	Thank you, Minister. Do you need to comment, Mrs. Beganović?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7074	There's no need, there's a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7075	So you'll get an answer in writing, you're satisfied with this answer. Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7076	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My question goes to the Council of Ministers – Is the Strategy for the Implementation of the Istanbul Convention for the period 2014-2018 adopted by the Council of Ministers? Since it was ratified and adopted a year ago, we do not have, as a House of Representatives, information at all about the state, adoption or non-admission of it. I also ask that your information or answer contains comprehensive information related to the Strategy – at which stage is the implementation of the same, are all relevant actors involved in its implementation? If they are not, why are they not, and to specify the exact name of which institutions are involved in the implementation, in order to know who is in charge of what results of this implementation? If it isn't adopted, please why isn't it adopted? The reminders, for example, of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, known as the Istanbul Convention, were adopted on August 1st 2014. By ratifying this convention, Bosnia and Herzegovina has pledged to take legislative and all other institutional and organisational frameworks to prevent violence against women, domestic violence. Since by 2018 the Strategy, unless we have already achieved some results, one year after its adoption, I think we are late, and I am asking the Council of Ministers to show itself about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7077	Thank you very much. The Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7078	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, respected MPs. Here, I would like to answer the question of Ms Maja Gasal regarding the adoption of the Strategy for the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2014-2018. 9 I must say immediately that the Council of Ministers has not adopted this Strategy yet, and I will state the reasons why. Namely, an inter-resor working group representing all relevant institutions that are practically and responsible for the implementation of this Strategy, as well as entity representatives, have drawn up the basic text of this Strategy and referred it to the Council of Ministers. In this procedure, which is also prescribed, opinions from competent institutions were needed. They are mainly obtained from all those institutions that, according to the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, we must obtain, and they were positive, and on the Strategy, the basics of the Strategy have been declared, it was necessary to declare the entity governments as well. The Federation government has made a positive statement, it gave a positive opinion on this Strategy and some recommendations that were then incorporated into this Strategy, while the Republika Srpska government did not manifest itself after several requests from the ministry, i.e. the Gender Equality Agency. What was done during that period is that individual ministries from Republika Srpska were positively reflected in this strategy, such as the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Justice from Republika Srpska, while the interior ministry gave a negative opinion. The negative view was, above all, that it is not necessary to adopt such a strategy at the state level because entities already have sufficient capacity and grounds to implement the Convention, listed the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, and have done their own entity strategies. Given that we have received this opinion, we have chosen to refer the Strategy to the Council of Ministers with all opinions received, but it is on, and 04.04.(?), at the 14th session of the Council of Ministers of 06.07.2015, this Strategy was, on the basis of the Strategy, withdrawn from the agenda at the request of the Deputy, my deputy, Mr Jović, for the reason that we should try once again to agree with the Ministry of Interior on certain misunderstandings, i.e. to provide further clarifications and further consultations. The director of the agency immediately agreed on a meeting the next day and a conversation was held at the Ministry of the Interior, but was left with a 15-day deadline for the ministry to re-read this strategy. However, we have come to the conclusion again with a negative view which is practically repeated that this strategy does not need to be brought by the Ministry of the Interior. So, here there is, we have decided to put the strategy back on the Council of Ministers after 15 days, as agreed by the Council of Ministers, on the grounds that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a signator of this Convention is required to report to the Council of Europe on the implementation of the Convention, the Istanbul of this Convention and the sea, this, practically, there is an obligation for the state to coordinate the process, monitor the implementation of the activities and report to the Council of Europe on the activities carried out, simply as is the obligation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the only possible way is to establish this mechanism of monitoring and implementing the Convention on Entity Levels through the basis of this Strategy. So, this basis of the Strategy will be put on the agenda, but on the agenda of the Council of Ministers meeting scheduled for tomorrow. We hope that we will go to explain this, we will state the position of the Ministry of the Interior and we will practically remain in the position of the need to adopt this important document that will follow the policy of the implementation of the Convention. And whether or not the implementation and preparation of this Convention has started at all, so the Gender Equality Agency in agreement with entity agencies has already launched certain activities in some preparatory actions concerning, above all, the monitoring of the system of protection mechanisms and the provision of assistance to women exposed to violence. And these would be some documents that, according to the Strategy, should be done together by entities and agencies at the state level. All institutions are involved in the implementation of this strategy according to entity level competencies, Brcko District and state level. So basically we will only be able to follow, and this Parliament, from the obligation of the Council of Ministers to Parliament, through the reporting, will be 10 familiar with all the activities that they will be, which will be implemented and delivered through the report to the Council of Europe after the adoption of the Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7079	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7080	I would like to thank her for her comprehensive response and for the information of the honourable minister, only to ask her in the next period that, besides the agencies at the state level or the Jender Center, one of the strategic partners is not only this House but also the Commission for Gender Equality, to inform us in good time about all activities related to this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7081	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7082	Thank you. Dear Chairmans and members of the College, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs. My question is short, I'm actually repeating it because I asked the same question, I asked the same question on March 25, 2015, when it was referred to the previous Council of Ministers' meeting. It reads – Are the BiH Council of Ministers when considering the Treaty on the State Border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, along with the text of the Treaty, presented as accompanying material Border documents which are part of this Treaty, and that it stands in Article 2 of the Treaty itself, that is a textual description of the stretching of the border, it sees Annex 1, and the topographic map of 1:25,000 with the line drawn, that is Attachment 2? I think in the meantime, there was a requirement to deliver the contract or draft a border contract that I'm talking about, so it would be good to do that sometimes to MPs. I accidentally had it, and this is all in the contract. The Council of Ministers referred the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7083	Thank you. Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr. Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7084	A similar issue was asked by the SBB MPs' Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the 9th session, held on 25.03.2015, when a conclusion was reached that the Council of Ministers was tasked with providing information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on whether, when considering and accepting the Treaty on Borders between 11 Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, the BiH Council of Ministers was supplied to a complete follow-up of the Treaty: 1) a text description of the stretching of the border – Appendix 1 and 2) a topographic map with a drawn border line – Annex 2. Those Annexes are an integral part of the Treaty, Article 2. On this issue, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH submitted the inquiry in question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs for the purpose of acting on it. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs provided the requested information to the Council of Ministers, which, at the 13th session, held on 01.07.2015, discussed and adopted the information and... concluded: 1. It is confirmed that in considering and accepting the Treaty on the Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro on 06.11.2014, the BiH Council of Ministers was delivered to a complete follow-up of the Treaty. 2. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is tasked with delivering the information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The Ministry of Civil Affairs provided the requested information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 07/07/2015, with the act number and so on. We note that the same documents were delivered to the BiH presidency, which will discuss the border treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro at the session scheduled for 23.07.2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7085	Thank you. Mrs. Vajzović, do you need to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7086	Thank you very much. I have no comment other than that it should also be delivered to MPs when it is time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7087	Thank you very much. It will certainly come to Parliament, it will not work without Parliament, it is a procedure. The word is Mr. Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers at the Council of Ministers and all present in the O.R. My question, as already said, is directed towards the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and reads: – At the 6th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, held on 11 February of this year, the Council of Ministers was tasked to prepare and refer to the procedure of amending the entire legislation relating to the obligations and rights of appointed and elected officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Law on Conflict of Interest, and sub-chaice acts arising from them – the rules on the work of administrative and supervisory committees, 12 rules on fees for work in interresor working groups, commissions and working bodies, rules on the procurement and use of official cars. And since the Council of Ministers has so far not sent amendments to the above-mentioned legislation to the parliamentary procedure to the Council of Ministers, has the Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the legislation? And if so, when will it be referred to further procedure, and if not, I ask for an explanation, since the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly was adopted in February of this year, and since then more than 5 months have passed? A brief explanation: Since it is late to realise the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House in Parliament's procedure, proposals for amending the legislation mentioned by MPs are being made. Such proposals are not comprehensive and cannot systematically resolve the obligations and rights of appointed and elected persons in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7089	Thank you. Minister of Finance, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7090	Say hello to everyone again. Here I will answer the question of the honourable representative, Mr. Sokolović. So, taking into account fiscal sustainability and respecting the expressed commitment of this esteemed House of Ministers, the Council of Ministers adopted the conclusions at its 94th session in the previous meeting, which had been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to prepare the Policy of Payments and Compensations in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2015-2018, as one of the crucial documents from which all these laws and accompanying acts would be amended. The Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has drawn up a draft wage policy for this period and delivered it to the Council of Ministers for adoption, which is all in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(1) of point 10. The law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The proposal for this wage policy also laid down the basic principles on which the wage policy, compensation and all other fees, expenditure and implementation of the budget for a period of 4 years will be established. The relevant act also sets out the principles which, in short due to the format given for the response, are to make analyses of the existing relative relations between the salaries of the selected and the names of the persons, the institution manager and the collegiate bodies, starting with objective evaluation criteria and comparative analysis with similar transactions, and propose any corrections of the coefficients. Respecting the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly that the current crisis requires pay corrections to appointed and elected persons in the highest bodies of the legislative and executive authorities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that elected officials should show by their own example... the adjustment of receiving the real economic situation, and that social security is the most vulnerable categories of all levels of government, it is perfectly normal to implement this policy by amending the law. The conditions for application in the law on the basis of which they will reduce and correct the salaries of elected and appointed officials are amended in Article 9(2). The BiH Constitution. Accurately and restrictively, it is necessary to establish the application of the right to remuneration after the end of the term of office of appointed officials, in particular to respect the length of the period within which the right is exercised. Reassess the way and determine the amount of 13 fees for membership in administrative and supervisory bodies as well as other working bodies appointed by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, taking into account the scope of the work and responsibilities of membership in those bodies. This realization requires the adoption of a set of laws that regulate this area, and there Mr Sokolović is absolutely right, whether it is new laws or amendments and additions to existing ones, and a series of sublegal acts that arise from this. I would like to stress that the Council of Ministers at 123rd session, 1102/2015,... the proposal to pay for this term of office of '15-'18, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, should be subject to discussion and decision-making of the new Council of Ministers' call. Since many new personal changes have been made and given the Council of Ministers' conclusion, as well as Parliament's, in the light of the announcement of the adoption of the Economic Reform Agenda and the adaptation... this document has been proposed by the Ministry of Finance to withdraw from the process the draft decision on the adoption of wage and remuneration policies in the institutions for this period. Currently, the Ministry of Finance with all relevant institutions analyses the content of wage policy and remuneration in institutions for... a period and after the analysis in question is completed, which will be very soon, the Ministry of Finance will refer it again to the adoption of the Council of Ministers. Taking into account all of the above, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is of the opinion that in order to implement the conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives, which is normally referred to by Mr Sokolović, it is necessary to approach the legal provisions that imply the adoption of the Pay Policy in institutions for a specific election period, while at the same time amending the entire legislation regulating the area of pay and compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I note that we have already adopted a series of regulations, but this is a crucial act to which, from everything following all these laws, we are working intensively on doing so and we will very soon forward it to the Council of Ministers, and quite normally immediately after that and to Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7091	Thank you. Mr. Sokolović, do you need to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7092	Here's a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7094	I thank the Minister. I feel that both the Ministry and the Council of Ministers are seriously considering resolving this problem. Here, you see from the session to the session, in a way, we have a politicization of this issue. And it would be very important to solve this issue, because in such a way, here in the end, we're going to solve the politicization and we're not going to let things go unsecured systemically and comprehensively, but rather, ad hoc about how when someone comes to mind for these or those reasons, they're going to solve that question. And here, once again to warn you time is a very important factor, so, here, I didn't feel or hear from you that you said -- we'll do it in 10, 20 days, uh, we'll do it, we'll do it. But here, please let it be as soon as possible and let's get this off the agenda. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7095	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7096	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen and all present. My question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers reads – What does the Health Sector of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and International Cooperation, that there are no data on documents, programmes and... tasks, international cooperation and European integrations in the field of health, and that the 2014 Council of Ministers report on the work of the Ministry in the section concerning the work of the Ministry, by the way, has no information on the affairs of the Sector, and when will the Internal Organisation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of the Council of Ministers of BiH be adopted? Why is the... website of the Health and Department for European Integration and International Co-operation? What laws have been passed or promoted from the field of this Sector, or Section, and why is there no word about it in the report of the Ministry of Civil Affairs? How is it possible for a civil servant at the Ministry of Civil Affairs to carry out the activities of a CCM official and is it true that the stamp of the Ministry of Civil Affairs is still being used and for the work of the CCM, i.e. the seal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs to be used non-institutionally? Why has the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH never been informed of shadow activities, effects, cost-costs, from the level of personal income of the employees of the Sector, or Section, who seem to act as a purpose themselves to the senselessness that neither of the work nor of the international activities and the benefits of which would the citizens have ever notified the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Is the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Civil Affairs, although new, in the new assembly,... absolutely not relevant and not projected, but the intention to solve the problem is, do they have knowledge of the above mentioned and will they face the necessary changes within the ministry? Is it finally time for us to face internal unhappiness and illogical organisation of certain ministries and, as part of what might be called public administration reform, reduce the costs paid by bh citizens? If MPs cannot travel to international conferences during Parliament's session, which is quite fine, and I support Mr. Chairman, how then the leaders... The Ministry of Civil Affairs can travel anywhere without any restrictions without the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the resolution minister and the chairman of the Council of Ministers ever being notified without a regular report from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Representatives and the Bosnian-Herzegovina public? For example, one of the executives of one of the two mentioned sectors of the Ministry of Civil Affairs is now on a plane to Istanbul, where he will therefore attend a conference at one of the most popular hotels in Istanbul. And I think that such things should finally be opened in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to know who, when, where he travels, who, what does, what benefits Bosnia and Herzegovina has from it. And just one more question, keeping in mind that I mentioned the famous CCM I am asking, given that I have information, i.e. I know that the CCM is largely relying on work, i.e. funding from the Global Fund – How much of the Global Fund's funding has been attracted by Bosnia and Herzegovina over the past 4 years, since the CCM head is a senior international relations sector official, i.e. the health care of one of the two sectors? So what, 15, the money, millions, hundreds of thousands of marks are attracted to Bosnia and Herzegovina, since hospitals like Zenica and other hospitals do no operations except the emergency ones because there are no strings, no sanity materials, absolutely no hygiene funds, and senior officials of certain sectors are traveling, and only to representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7097	The minister of civil affairs, the minister of civil affairs, Mr. Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7098	I thank you for this question and for investing in the essence of the problem when... certain ministries and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Of course, one part of the answer I will give immediately and the other part of the answer really requires... written form with detailed travel analyses, results of these travels etc. So, in accordance with Article 15. The Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 5/03, 26/04, 88/07, 59/09 and 103/09 and Article 15 of the Regulation on the internal organisation of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Health Sector, inter alia, shall be carried out in the field of operations and tasks in Bosnia and Herzegovina relating to the establishment of basic principles, coordination of activities, coordination of the plans of the entity bodies of the authorities, defined strategies on the international health plan in the field of health, and in particular with regard to the establishment of a Health Protection Sector Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina in co-operation with entities and the Brcko District of BiH, monitoring of the EU's approach to the health sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and determining priorities for donations as well as their coordination, and issues of international agreements and international co-operation in the health sector, monitoring of the implementation of international agreements and conventions which Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified. Given the extensive competence of the Ministry of Civil Affairs as well as the numerous areas in which the Ministry operates, the management of the Ministry's website is a demanding job in which all sectors of the Ministry must be involved. It is also the obligation of the Health Sector to deliver on the publication of materials in their jurisdiction. It has been observed that there are shortcomings, that a number of documents have been unpublished, and is working intensively to find technical and personnel solutions for optimal use of the website. We remind you that the BiH Council of Ministers adopted only last month: 1. It adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's Operational Plan for the signing and ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the counterfeiting of medical products and similar criminal acts that pose a threat to public health. The convention has not been published. 2. Confirmed interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the EU Development Health Programme, after which the Ministry of Civil Affairs sent a letter of interest to the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety for the Accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the EU Development Health Programme. Therefore, the current and significant activities of the Department of European Integration and International Cooperation of the Health Sector were not on the website. As regards the Regulation on the internal organisation of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, in accordance with the obligation laid down in the Decision on the principles for determining the internal organisation of the 16 bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration, "the Official Messenger of BiH", number 31/13 and the Decision on the classification of posts and criteria for the entry of jobs in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has drawn up a draft Regulation on the internal organisation of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and delivered it to the Commission on 30.06.2015 for the analysis of the jobs of the BiH Ministry of Justice for the purpose of giving an opinion on a proposal for a description of jobs, official posts to be classified, which are provided for the above draft Regulation. According to my information at the Ministry of Justice, which is covered by the rules delivered, the draft rules of the Ministry of Civil Affairs could be found somewhere in October or November on the agenda, i.e. they could get a response from the Ministry of Justice. And after you know the procedure, the Ministry of Civil Affairs is obliged to deliver this draft regulation to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Office of Law, the Ministry of Justice, when they give their opinion afterwards, it is on the Council of Ministers. According to our assessment, the adoption of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs Regulation could be found at the end of this year. As for the use of the seal, the abuse of the seal, I've heard it for the first time. Really after what you've set up here, we'll do a detailed analysis and deliver this to you in writing. Traveling to the Ministry of Civil Affairs is really a lot, there are plenty of them. I have been trying, or asking that a detailed report on the results of these trips be provided after each trip and to see what the effects of these trips are. Of course, I ask all those who have contacts with international organisations, with other ministries of our friendly countries that certain problems, when it comes to health care, are updated and that certain programmes and implementations of them are sought. Most of these trips are paid by those institutions that call on representatives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. We have a very limited travel fund for our ministry officials, and we are looking really strictly at how and how to save on travel. Where the organizers are certain ministries or NGOs we have no influence on what kind of hotels are used, what, to say, there are certain benefits, but what's in front of the ministry really strictly counts there. And to finish, this part, the second part of your question, we're going to deliver in writing, and we're going to really do all these things in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7099	Thank you. Mrs. Kapetanović, do you need you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7100	Thank you. Dear Minister, I hope you've got my question right. It is not at all personalised, addressed to you or to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, since you have just taken over the mandate, but what I expect from you is, deeply believing in your loyalty and commitment to work, to solve the problem. I therefore express my dissatisfaction, not with the overall response, because at this time you are not in a position to give an answer, so I ask that within 15 days in writing, a complete report on the work of the Health Sector, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Department for European Integration and International Co-operation for the period 2010 to today, until this day 22.07. A detailed report on all international 17 activities, participations in international conferences of department heads and all employees for the period 2010 to date, the amount of paid-up diaries in the past period, travel costs decisions, accommodation and who carried them. Names of managers of all employees, qualification structure, level of education, required level of education, description of jobs and number of employees. And as for the seal, please check, that's one of the reasons why I didn't want to participate in the CCM a few years ago, there's one of the colleagues here who knows it's true. So, we MPs from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly think it is not normal to use the Ministry of Civil Affairs' seal to work on something that could have been established by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but that the seal is used outside this building is not. Please check that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7101	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in this way we have exhausted this first part of our session, as regards oral questioning and the answer to parliamentary questions. We're moving on with our work. The meetings of the following committees were held in preparation for this session: the Constitutional Commission, the Finance Commission and the Budget Commission, the Foreign Affairs Commission. I would ask the Foreign Affairs Commission to continue its session today until the end of the House session so that we can have a report on these ratification agreements, because I have information that the session has been suspended, so I call, here is not the chairman, the first vice-president to organise a session of the Commission. There's going to be a break at 2:00 today because at 2:00, we're going to have a constitutive session of this group of friendships for Western Europe. So there will be a break from 14:00 to 15:00 and you will hold a session of the Commission during that period. I appeal to all members of the Commission to respond in order to discuss the agreements and not to take them off the agenda today. I beg you, then, as chairman of the House, to do so. Then, a meeting of the Commission on Transport and Communications, the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and the Joint Commission on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency was held. The Constitutional Commission session, scheduled for 20 July 2015, was not followed by a lack of quorum. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. Add to the agenda: Point 3. The adoption of conclusions on events during the Potocari memorial ceremony, 11 July 2015 – Proposer: Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1 101/15, since 16.07.2015 (proposed to be the 3rd point). Point 4. Discussing information on sending letters to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the President of the Parliament of Canada – Proposer: MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1011/15, since 16.07.2015. Point 8. Proposal for a decision to adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Policy for the period 2015 to 2030, the Ministry of Communications and Transport material of BiH, issue: 01-29-1010/15, from 16.07.2015. 18 I point 30. Giving consent to ratification of Appendix 2 of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission relating to the horizontal programme on nuclear safety and radiation protection under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-1001/15, of 15.07.2015. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/14 of 05.03.2015 (second reading), was removed from the agenda in line with the notification of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. At the meeting, the Minister of Security of BiH met the committee responsible for the fact that the Council of Ministers as a Proposer of the Law did not set out amendments submitted to the Bill and informed those present that a statement on the amendment and addition of the Law on Police Officers of BiH was scheduled at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015. It is proposed that the Commission postpone its statement on the proposal for a law at the second commission stage, which was accepted by the Commission. Point 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-9/15, of 02.07.015 (first reading), was removed from the agenda due to lack of opinion by the Constitutional Commission on constitutional law and the principles of the Proposal for Law (the Commission's session was not held due to lack of quorum). Point 10. Proposal for a report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of the BiH Police structure for 2014 and Plan of the Independent Committee for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-818/15, since 17.06.2015, the year was removed from the agenda in accordance with the Notice of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission adopted the following conclusion: – The Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as an independent body of BiH police structure, did not adopt or submit the 2014 Work Report as defined by Article 7. The law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure, and the Joint Commission cannot give an opinion on the materials delivered to it. Point 11. The report on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2014, the BiH presidency's material, number: 01,02-16-1-844/15, since 29/06/2015, was removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget. Point 12. The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, issue: 01,02,01/1,02/1-08-861/15, of 30.06.2015, was removed from the agenda due to lack of opinion by the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Annual Report (the Commission's session was not held due to the lack of quorum). Point 21. A report on the work of the Joint Commission on Oversight of BiH's 2014 Intelligence and Security Agency has been taken off the agenda because the Joint Commission has not submitted the report. Point 27. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative submitted at the 13th session of the House, held on 10.06.2015, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative that within 19 days of the adoption of this initiative in the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a point titled: Information from the Council of Ministers on the special parallel relations between the Bosnian Serb entity and the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina", act No 01-50-1-787/15, of 10.06.2015, was removed in accordance with the Notice of the Constitutional Commission which decided not to discuss the proposed parliamentary initiative because it considers that the conditions laid down in Article 174 have not been met. The House's rules of procedure for its consideration, i.e. it was necessary to first obtain the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers on the initiative. Point 28. Consideration of the Senad Šepić parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held since 30.06.2015, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative which reads: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the House College to establish a mandatory agenda for each regular session with the title: Information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path. I propose that the College of the House of Representatives include this initiative as a part of the agenda at the next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH," issue: 01-50-1-853/15, as of 30.06.2015, was removed from the agenda due to a lack of the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The first vice president, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, came forward. Mrs. Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7102	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected ministers, ministers, deputies, all the distinguished guests at this session today, I welcome you all. My proposal would be to place the agenda item at today's session of the House of Representatives – Giving consent to the Loan Agreement, the Loan for Development Policy and the Business Ambience between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which this House adopted on 10.03.2015, under the number: 01.02-05-2-362/15. Namely, I will remind all of us that we had this at the House of Representatives' session and that, I may say, perhaps because of our indiscipline or irresponsibility, we lacked one vote to keep this agreement on the agenda. In addition to what I propose today in my materials, you are also given the conclusion from the extraordinary session of the BiH Presidency that they are asking us to put this on the agenda and give consent, since this is the part that belongs, among other things, to these programming and socio-economic reforms. And I will very briefly state as an explanation that, so the government of entities, both the Federation and the RS, have adopted a certain number, meaning regulations, i.e. laws aimed at simplifying registration and certain activities that concern it, and I think that from that point of view it would be necessary, to say urgently, and in substance to adopt and give consent to this Agreement today. Here, I ask you to support it in the agenda and to give consent to the Agreement in question, and all the necessary opinions on this Agreement are in favour of this proposal, as the committee responsible has given its positive opinion on the said Agreement. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7103	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. The reply refers to the proposed agenda item from the Vice-President. I do not think that the conditions for the House of Representatives to put this on the agenda today, given that after the Agreement was on the Foreign Affairs Commission, the House refused to ratify the Agreement and a completely new procedure is necessary for the adoption of this, i.e. the beginning of the procedure, which means that the Foreign Affairs Commission must resuscitate, give consent, and only then can it come here for a session in Parliament. As long as the Foreign Affairs Commission does not reconsider this report, I do not think the business conditions for this to be found on the House of Representatives' agenda are met.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7105	Thank you. If you want it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7106	Let's do the rest of the lines, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7107	Replica, Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7108	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to say hello and wish for successful work today. So, with the full support of Mr. Novaković that a whole new procedure was needed to get in, did this come on the agenda? What concerns me especially here is the fact that we don't have any amounts here, or we don't have an explanation of what the amount of debt is, under which conditions we're in charge and under which programs. I think from some of the data I had earlier, so in the debate we had earlier, we have information that it was 38 million, that 24 million refer to the Federation, and I think 12 million refer to the Republika Srpska. We see here that we're going back in charge without actually knowing the situation of the actual state of duty in the entities themselves. What concerns us is the fact that even though the duties that entities make do not have reports of what these duties are. When it comes to, say, vault records or other securities of value, we don't know how much, since these are short-term borrowings we don't see why we don't have that and we go into new responsibilities. I'll remind you that we don't have a situation here why we're in concrete debt. The situation is clear that it is in charge of closing the deficit in both the Federation and Republika Srpska. So, the very fact that the state is in the situation, I will remind you that in the year Croatia joined the EU, only 800 to 1,000 people were employed to develop a programme for IPA, the IPA programme. So we don't have why we're in charge here, what are these programs, by which basis, which is the amount, which is the interest rate, which is the credit line, etc., etc. I don't think the SBB will support this proposal. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7109	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7110	Thank you. We are this, as Mr Novaković has already pointed out, this material, or request for consent to ratify this Agreement, was at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, since 25.03. this year, and was then rejected. For 16 MPs, all of them from the SDA, all of them from the HDZ except for one MP from all of the SDP, I hope that the SDP will not repeat that mistake this time, against all of the SBB, all of the DF, all of the SDS, all of the HDZ-90s, the BPS, and the A-SDA, one was abstentioned. There are no business conditions to discuss this item on the agenda. We have been given the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission since 24.03, so the one which was related to the House of Representatives session at which this proposal has already been rejected. We also do not have a proposing, we do not have the presence of a proposing act or a proposing representative. Therefore, Article 74. The Rules of Procedure have also been broken and there are absolutely no conditions for ratification, business or constitutional, nor for the law on the execution of international contracts, etc. And it's amazing that now, after an emergency procedure, we're trying to put in charge of 38 million here again, my colleague is in charge, but he forgot to stress 38m euros. You want to put Bosnia and Herzegovina in charge of the emergency procedure, and all relevant officials have said this is exclusively for the hoarding of budget gaps. So the SBB won't support this request.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7111	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7112	My fellow Arnaut, my request to you, as an expert on the Rules of Procedure and beyond. You're dealing with it. Leave the SDP's attitudes. So it is absolutely inappropriate for you to go into how the SDP will vote on this and incorrectly. As it is not correct to propose this item of the agenda in this way, not to explain why an emergency procedure is required, which is why the presidency is behind it and not to say publicly that this is a prerequisite for signing the Reform Agenda in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Perhaps if it were said to the MPs that a number of them would think differently about this, that a number of parties would be less hard in their position and that they would understand what has led to numerous representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the embassy in the morning and whether this is on your agenda and whether the Agenda will finally be signed. So, don't rush into the firm attitudes and claims that there's something in the emergency procedure, that something has been done past the order, because we had this at the session when the ratification was shot down, which is rare in this House, and until then all the procedures have passed. This doesn't mean the SDP will support this today. We just need to ask ourselves these questions in principle and not run out into the field until we have all the information on what's on the agenda, which is why so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7113	Okay, thank you very much. 22 Mr. Predrag Kožul, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7114	Well, here's what I'm going to do in replica form. So, colleagues Isaković and Arnaut. We, here's this material that we have long ago, got back on the bench so it's a very clear amount, it's a very clear interest, it's very clear all the details of the loan, it's a very clear intention. If the problem with the Foreign Affairs Committee at 1400 hours is that commission today. If the problem is the issue of responsibilities, colleague Isaković, we had a very detailed report yesterday at the Public Debt Committee where the issue of public debt is very visible and on the vault records and bonds, on the external debt of each individual entity and the municipalities. From this point on, I thought I would later discuss that only two countries in the environment that are less in charge of GDP than Bosnia and Herzegovina -- Macedonia and Bulgaria -- exist in the environment. So that way we can talk about borrowing especially under favourable terms of credit. In addition, if we know the financial situation of entities and the structure of expenditure in entities, which are the most common issue of social expenditure, it is no shame even to patch up budget gaps with such favourable arrangements within entities, because we live in entities and many people live on entity budgets, and not to say that the question is the original question of this loan, just as it writes, credit for the development policy of the business environment. And the dedicated consumption of this loan is very affirmative, I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7115	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7116	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. In fact, no matter how hard I try to figure things out here in Parliament don't go my way. This country didn't come from these choices. It's not a matter of moment of feeling, revenge, hatred. This House cannot turn into a criminal expedition for what entities, cantons, counties, municipalities do. If anyone here thinks that, then there are procedures to conclude the agreement. It says here exactly what amounts are, as they are located, what some authorities need to do to get the support of an international financial institution under favourable conditions to create reforms, and this is what this fine agreement on the implementation of reforms and statements they all signed, including members of the Presidency. You don't think that members of the Bureau today have worked out an emergency conclusion to put this on the agenda that it's their exhibitionism. That is why I am asking you not to introduce this Parliament into a policy of autism that will cause damage equally to Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities. What I don't like here, I have to be honest, is that there's no sincere concern here for budgets or politics, here slowly entering the state's parliament of politics to do as much harm as possible in each other's political conflicts. I'm asking you not to. I was a minister at a time when this agreement was negotiated, I think it's a good deal. It says here exactly what the governments were obliged to do. And now you will have part of the agreement concerning support for reforms from international financial institutions, and colleagues from the Council of Ministers absolutely understand that they will negotiate in the 23rd interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So please, yes, it was strange to me that this agreement fell on ratification, and today I call you not to send a political message to other levels of government that we are a criminal expedition. So, to whom there is no clarity in the agreement, which is the amount, which is interest, what should anyone have done, everything is written in the agreement. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Look out... So all these other stories, which is why I'm saying don't be a criminal expedition, it's not correct, so it's all in the agreement. And it's no problem not to adopt the Agreement today either. So I won't invite anyone to adopt, but the problem is that you send such a message.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7118	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7119	So, we will, so SNSD will support this agreement. And I think it's a greater shame not to support him.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7120	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7122	Well, thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7123	Well, here, replica, I don't even know who the replica of itself really is. So, what kind of character would I be if you didn't get a chance to talk, huh? So, to colleagues from the SBB, and to other colleagues who, here today, say that they wouldn't be, I'm just reminding myself that I specifically suggested because of the conclusion that we don't put these agreements on the agenda. But when it comes to Tuzla, let's make it flexible for that to happen, when it comes to Gradačac, let it happen. So, it doesn't make sense, so we've already become contradictory ourselves so that, as I said at first, what kind of character would be if you didn't get to talk. I'm gonna support this today, and otherwise I'm probably going to suggest that that conclusion of mine be erased because it doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7124	Thank you very much. I'm asking you nicely to focus now on these new proposals. Keep going. Mirsad Mešić has a word. Here you go, Mr. Mešić. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I propose that the new agenda of this session be included – the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee that will effectively determine on the basis of whose approval, which is the purpose and on the basis of which decisions the BiH Presidency chaired Mr Mladen Ivanić in June 2015 sent a letter to the ambassadors of the Security Council member states with a proposal to reject the resolution. I wrote this article in writing, so here's the thing...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7126	Thank you very much. Surely there will be a statement. The word is Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome everyone present in the O.R. I want to, before I ask the question, I want to remind us all of a few details. First of all, I would also like to say that this proposal, which is our position on this item of the agenda, which we propose, has also been given to you in written form, and this is about the conclusion on the adoption of the Law amending the law on wages and fees in BiH institutions that this House of Representatives adopted at its 7th session, held on 26.02.2015. This act was subsequently forwarded to the House of Peoples in accordance with the envisaged procedure. And here we also have the information that the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Bariša Čolak, signed the document, saying that it was forwarded to the competent committees and specifically in this case the Finance Commission or the Finance Committee has not discussed this yet. We propose, like the Club, that according to this point, that, i.e. the agenda of information on this point and that we ask the House of Nations for information, in this way to tell us the procedural state and status of the adopted law of the House of Representatives. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7128	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7129	The Honorable Chairman. Given the overall developments within Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose that we include a new agenda item at today's 15th session of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, all in accordance with Article 71(1). The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives (the BiH Official Messenger), number 79/14, and I propose that the next item be included in the agenda of this 15th session – the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission that will effectively determine on the basis of which, with whose consent and on behalf the president of the Republika Srpska entity addresses and sends letters to the UN and the UN Security Council, although constitutionally determined that foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as on behalf of which members of the presidency are individually addressed to international institutions. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7130	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Excuse me, I apologize, replica Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, Mirsade.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7131	I apologize for this little failure, but the replica refers to, in fact, my suggestion to the agenda point to explain to my colleagues and everyone present here in the O.R., so it's about so-called. "white bread" which we adopted as a law in this House of Representatives and referred to the procedure further, however, this cannot yet come on the agenda of the House of Peoples. So it is “white bread. ” That's it. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7132	Replica again, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7133	Oh, gentlemen of the chairman, regarding the, uh, replica of the proposal of the distinguished colleague Backović. I really can't, so I can't help but wonder what this Parliament is getting into. Now I've told my colleagues on the left, I'm sorry to have to tell you, but you're entering the final phase of your mandate and you haven't even started. Guys, what do we want to bring this Parliament down to? If we're gonna rip out Grandma's ears out there, I don't know anyone who's been pulling out the grass and we're looking for Parliament to decide. Everyone has their constitutional powers, everyone moves... and members of the Presidency and the President of the Republic. I ask you to be too political... at this time, it is unnecessary Bosnia and Herzegovina, will just produce... consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, isn't it embarrassing, at today's session of this House, we have agendas, resolutions, declarations, where people are laws, where the European agenda is, where the Action Plan is. I asked to take a break to give these people five, 10, 15 days, as long as it takes, to define it to go in the direction. So, I apologize, but I think this Parliament produces so much autism. If I have to say it from the opposition to the ruling majority, then you've come into a situation to have... most of it, and you haven't ruled for three months. And this is publicly transmitted, and you talk to the citizens about a better future waiting for them, and we dragged them in so they don't know where they're going. So, I beg you and warn you, don't go with the declarations, with the resolutions, with... Is there anyone to propose a law, is there any sense in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7134	Thank you. Let's get this microphone fixed up there, service please. Replication response, Mr. Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7135	Just wanting something that is constitutionally determined and the movement of this state in the constitutional frameworks of what we have defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement and initiated by the overall events, which is why I said here, not personally to man, but to function and whose 26 powers in this country are that externally outside the borders of this country address international institutions and who is this state beyond the borders of this state? What I said and mentioned four men here, not one, but four, because all four do it. The country's presidency, by its definition and by its jurisdiction, is precisely said there, must make a decision when it comes to the outside. Individually, you do not have this in the constitutional order, as entity presidents are not in charge of foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7136	Thank you. The word has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7137	The Honorable Chairman. In accordance with Article 71. I suggest that today's agenda be added to the Rules of Procedure with one more item of the agenda. Before I say what the formulation is, I want to say very clearly and precisely here in Parliament that I believe, and now I am speaking for myself, that we are ready to condemn every form of violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it has been committed against the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or on political representatives and whether the perpetrators from Bosnia and Herzegovina or beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, I would like to say that it is very important that the competent authorities of this country respond effectively and that all perpetrators, and more importantly, organisers of any violence or violent act, bring justice to this country. Starting with such views, I would therefore like to propose today that we place a point called - Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the intensification of the attacks against Bosniak returnees in the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity RS, with a special reference to the latest example of the brutal abuse of Nermin Hanifić of Kotor Varosi. You know very well what a brutal attack it was. Unfortunately, it remained undetected, about it as if no one were talking. So, I deliver in writing, I ask that it be placed on the agenda. And on behalf of the Club, I suggest that points 3 and 4 of today's agenda be removed from the agenda. Point 3. The adoption of conclusions on events during the Potocari memorial can't even be on the agenda because of this formulation. Because these are no events during the memorial ceremony, it is a memorial to the 20th anniversary of genocide committed over the Bosniak population in Srebrenica, according to the found, whether the International Court of Justice ruled. And only such a formulation, in our court, can be accepted. And for such a agenda and such a item of the agenda, we can vote. When it comes to the fourth item of the agenda, why we're asking it to be downloaded, we have no objections. Even though it is unskilled, the content of this point is absolutely unacceptable. Because in content we did not receive a letter sent unilaterally by a member of the Bureau, we did not receive a strong letter which was unauthorized by the president of the smaller BH entity, we did not receive a letter from some other members of the College who sent letters to international institutions on memos, etc. So, on behalf of the club, we're looking for a download of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda. And if they're not removed, we'll vote against a full agenda like this. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7138	Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7139	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests. I'll do it very briefly. Despite a large number of proposals for the extension of the agenda, pursuant to Article 71(1). Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the inclusion of the agenda item for the 15th session of the House of Representatives, which reads – Discussion of the Reports from the held Conference on the subject: "Achieving the protection of human rights and freedom through the legislative framework, the current state and plans of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of human rights, with a proposal for conclusions". Namely, the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly organised the above-mentioned Conference with the support of partner international organisations, the OSCE mission, the UN mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the conference invited... ministers and deputies, as well as directors of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are being supervised, parliamentary oversight. Representatives of entity parliaments, human rights committees, as well as the Brcko District were invited as guests. At the Conference held, the Joint Committee on Human Rights formed a report that you received in writing, already divided on the benches of MPs, representatives, MPs, representatives, discussed at the session, the 8th session of the Joint Commission held on 21.07.2015. And on that occasion, the Joint Commission unanimously, with nine votes in favour, adopted a report from the held conference on how I said already in the title, which was held in Bijeljina on 22 and 23 with conclusions contained within this proposal for the enlargement of the agenda. We propose to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly that at these sessions, including today's session, the report is to be discussed, with the aim of full introduction of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the human rights situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the adoption of relevant conclusions by the House of Representatives and the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I repeat, in addition to this request you have a report from the held conference, on the subject as I have said, with a proposal for conclusions. I think this is quite well-prepared enough material that should be included in this session for the simple reason that it has already been over half a year, but because of the formation of power and the inability to solve these issues earlier we were not able to finish it sooner. I appreciate that you will appreciate the fact that this well-prepared material is ready for discussion in the House of Representatives, in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7140	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 28 So, all that my colleague said, Bojić, as arguments for today's point, is added to this session. I don't mind, but I'm just not ready to discuss this today when I have the material that I've got now, so and just respecting the importance of the topic and everything you've been doing, I don't know why it's urgent that today it be at the session, but to leave it for the next session, so that we can prepare ourselves accordingly. I don't think there's a reason for the urgency. If there's anything you say, and I don't mind everything you've said. Here, so I suggest that it not be today because it simply doesn't prepare us for a representative to participate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7142	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7143	Thank you. I, I will refer to what my colleague Bojić said, as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, absolutely support this initiative. I don't see any problem putting this on the agenda. And when it comes to Mr. Lovrinović's comment, I really don't understand that someone is not ready to deal with the protection of human rights and material that is very simple, and is ready to be in charge, or to charge Bosnia and Herzegovina with 38m euros, over 75m marks, based on the material that he also received this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7144	Thank you. Replica, or reply to the replica, I don't know what it is anymore, Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7145	I respect the comment of the distinguished colleague, but the fact is that almost all political parties and all those who had the desire and wanted to engage in this activity took part in the preparation of the Conference itself. So, in making this information itself. Therefore, this report was adopted unanimously on the Commission itself. So we've looked at this multiple times and on multiple occasions and there's a large number, dozens of participants were present at the conference itself, and this is, therefore, sublimated all of what we've been doing. I don't mind delaying the debate on this subject, therefore, but I still urge that we consider this issue. The report is very short, it is not long at all, and it can be read in the break if there is a desire to consider this issue, because we will be in a situation where only sometime in September or October of this month we will have this report in front of us and only then have the activities of the competent institutions, so when will we analyse their work towards these conclusions that we have brought here. And this is how we got late, and this is how this report was supposed to be at 3 or 4 months. So, I don't mind if there is any opposition I don't mind considering this next time, but it seems to me that this is the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not just the Commission for Human Rights. 29 Therefore I ask you, when we have taken responsibility from the Joint Commission, that the Paramentary Assembly of this House of Representatives and the House of the People take responsibility and consider this question and adopt the conclusions, however it deems necessary. But it is not correct for those who have made an effort to take this report in this form for consideration in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. So here's my explanation, if I managed to get you...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7146	...be a practice. We don't conduct debates, we run agendas. Later, if we get to that position, so if you can give up, I'd ask you to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on. I mean, he's not a clear Rules of Procedure, which is why I can't cut, because this isn't the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7148	So, if we're going to defend human rights by adopting today's Report and in this way discussing it, there's nothing we can really do to answer, I don't mind. I will vote for this report and it will be adopted if it is the defence of human rights. And I'm the material that Mr. Arnaut was telling me today, and I got three or four sessions, or at the 9th session, so he's not new today at all. It's not the same story, but I said why I put my character at the expense of today's point.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7149	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I will suggest the formation of an investigative committee to determine if UN Secretary General Ban Ki-mun has read all the letters sent to him from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous 15 days? Explanation: Article 7(1) The Rules of Procedure, which are called upon by colleagues from the SDP, reads - the MP has the rights and responsibilities set out in the BiH Constitution, the law, the decision, the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If they can interpret that they can form an investigative committee for the presidency, I can interpret that they can also form an investigative commission for the UN Secretary-General. And I don't see why we wouldn't do it here, so let's round up this agenda debate with one serious point? 30 I think, and I will try not to repeat any of what Nikola Špirić said, so that it will not be misread, but I think we really exaggerated. The only progress in this I have seen is that counterpart Bećirović called Republika Srpska a Bosnian-Herzegovina entity rather than a smaller entity, which is a serious progress in relation to his discussions so far, from which I conclude he is becoming deeply aware of the reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then he confuses me and delivers a proposal to the agenda and then I realize that he has not yet become aware of the reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I was joking. Maybe Ban Ki-mun is watching this session, so he doesn't get Bosnia and Herzegovina's sanctions, when it comes to the proposal, but really people, we've gone too far. And if we keep this up, I'm afraid we're going to be very, very hard to collect the quorum of this Parliament, not just a quorum of commissions that we see a little bit, a little bit so... Let's turn to serious work while we still have time and while others give us a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7151	Thank you very much. And finally Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here's Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7152	Thank you, Chairman. It is clear that the political intention of MPs, ministers, entity officials and other politicians to put on the agenda, and otherwise in public, is to initiate topics that cause great interest and become different emotions. So it's a clear political intention. The motives on the other hand are different. While one team, conditionally speaking, hides large topics of economic ruin where they are responsible, others have other problems and try to cover it up, so there are those who do so for personal promotion. However, regardless of the motive for this kind of debate in the public, and here in Parliament, too, can cause inconceivable consequences on the ground. The tensions that arise here in Parliament, I am talking about Parliament because we are sitting at Parliament's session, and there is no difference in the performance and behaviour of other fellow politicians at different levels, so the tensions that are irresponsiblely and shortsighted remain in the public and when those who create them go home and forget about what was the topic. Most well-intentioned, but I really do warn and beg all of us not to play with fire. No newspaper article, no political benefit, no cover is worth it, I'll say it mildly, an incident somewhere on the ground, which will result in tension rising by politicians. When and when we talk about sensitive issues, and it is possible that this will be the case today, I really ask you to do so deeply aware that every heavy spoken word here or from any other politician ends up as a brick on the returnee's head somewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, Chairman, I see you've turned on the microphone, my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7153	Yeah, I'm waiting for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7154	I ask my colleague Pandurević, first of all, to withdraw these two points of the agenda, that with other colleagues who have also proposed agenda points in response or in any 31 other way, because of what she has proposed, they also withdraw those agenda points. If we have to talk about this, I don't have a problem doing this, let's let the passions cool down a little bit, we'll do it in August, at the August session. Here, I really invite you to do this effort and let's start a positive message from Parliament. No one's going to trap a crown from their heads if we postpone this discussion of all these issues for a month.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7155	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7156	I had a need to warn this and say, Chairman, and from now on everyone is carrying their share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7157	Please, uh, I'd like to ask you to give up the replica, to bring the debate to an end, to make a statement on the agenda, if possible, because this debate on the agenda has taken too much time, I mean the good part needlessly, but you're staying at the replica. So no one gives in. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7158	Not wanting to get into any controversy at all, because I have no intention of doing the controversy either, but in the overall environment in which we live and the environment that we produce, producing the insecure life of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fast and ever faster skating towards the bottom of economic survival, the fact that the real incentive of investment in Bosnia, I'm talking about the relan, not how much anyone will give for textbooks, how much money they will give for schools, how much we will produce, how much we will reduce the deficit, how much we will increase the GDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7159	Who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7160	I'll tell you what, I'll say it, of course, because I didn't get up for nothing. It is essential that we all understand that this is a common state with an internal arrangement, as it is, which will be modified through further work of us or destroyed through further work, again us. And as for Ban Ki-mun, Mr. Novaković, because you said what... I suggested it, Ban Ki-mun has no jurisdiction in Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, has nothing to do with our constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7161	Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Please bring the hearing to an end. Short, please. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7162	Mr. Chairman. 32 I'll be very brief. If someone's been trying to calm the tensions in this country this whole time and in recent months it's been SDS. And even because of this, we have suffered very often certain political damage. And here we are, and today we're ready to pull these two points, but we have one condition. And our condition is that Mr Bećirović publicly apologized to us, not to us, but to colleagues sitting on the other side, whose signatures he used, who were trusted to sign a particular document, to give the bianko signatures, so that he would then say that the predstavnički of Representatives considers. I'm sorry, but we're also on this side of the House of Representatives and no one has the right to speak on behalf of the House of Representatives. And when Mr. Bećirović sends public apology to colleagues in front of him on the right whose signatures he has abused, we are ready to give up on this point and when the SDP is fenced. If someone was shining conflicts in this country in recent months, and very skillfully, it was Mr. Denis Bećirović. And here we invite you to fence yourself from all his pyromanic activities, which are very skillful, as an opposition, to throw these pyromanic initiatives here at this Parliament, so that we may then gnaw at each other about it and not do what is really our job, which was told by colleagues Novaković, colleagues Špirić and colleagues Magazinović. Here, fence up, do those two things, and we're giving up these two agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7163	Replica, Mrs. Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, what I'm about to say is in favor of this agenda, that is, with the suggestions we've heard today. Until the proposal by Mr Novaković, who proposed an inter-resor group regarding Ban Ki-mun, whose proposal I strongly support, I thought that the proposals of some fellow MPs in this House were indeed planned today to lead the great heik and the court against Serbian high-ranking officials and politicians in this country. Mr. Novaković tried a little bit of a relief by introducing the story and Ban Kimun, but what continues, so the SDP proposals, Mr. Backović's proposals, speak in that direction. And of course, the demand to take the 3rd and 4th points off the agenda says that everything about the Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina should not and should not be spoken in this Parliament, which will say that individual politicians and colleagues from the Federation, or from Bosniak political parties, really do not know where they are going. And I ask you, Mr. Chairman, and all those who today will manifest themselves and vote on these proposals to take care of it, because this concept and this direction of movement and story, and, of course, regarding Mrs. Krišto's proposal, could lead in a very dangerous direction Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do not let what was being delayed in Potocari be mentioned today, which was to expect us from Republika Srpska to present a letter and a declaration apologising to the prime minister of Serbia for what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that at least for a prominence, the image of this country, which is naturally detestable to the maximum of what was happening in Potocari. Of course, it did not occur to anyone, especially SDP to do such a thing, and they are full of the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course of seeking some justice for certain only in this Bosnia and Herzegovina. You dear colleagues know that your proposals against Serbian politicians, high-ranking officials in this country, will not pass today, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7165	Time. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7166	but it is not enough that it will not pass, more importantly than that is what message this Parliament and candidates are sending, those who are running for such proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7167	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7168	Mr. Chairman, my replica is sent to you. I suggest that you and the Kolegijum no longer schedule meetings of the House of Representatives because, knowingly or unconsciously, it is a significant contribution that this House is the place where the greatest hatred, intolerance, intolerance and the litter of nationalist rhetoric that burns the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is scattered. So, and to you, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers and your deputies, I strongly suggest that you wake up, to refer a reform agenda to this Assembly, to do something for the citizens of this country and for this country. And that from today to that day, which I want as soon as possible, you do not sleep for one second, to spend all your time on the road here in Sarajevo and Banja Luka, together with the governments of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation agree all the questions. Any other relationship to this issue is nonsense. Every other story doesn't make sense, and I'm going to say that today, except for two proposals for supplementing the agenda, a third of the agenda, the agenda points have been downloaded, and these new points have only two proposals, Mrs Krišto makes sense, and Mr Bojić, this all else loses its meaning. This is all a story that makes absolutely no sense, this is a waste of time in any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7169	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7170	Short. My kolegica Pandurević, therefore you did not accept my request to withdraw the agenda points, which would also result in the withdrawal of other agenda points that could raise tensions and lead the debate in an unknown direction. You have not accepted my request to bring down tensions and to postpone all these discussions at the August session, if they must be discussed here at all. I can only say that I am sorry that I made the wrong assessment that maybe you could be the one, that person who would take a step to normalize the situation in Parliament and stop this madness that doesn't lead to anything. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7171	Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7172	The Honorable Chairman. 34 So, as so far and in Parliament and outside of Parliament, have you ever heard half an ugly word to any MP, including an honorable letter, which, again, I am speaking to as colleagues in this House. You didn't, and you won't when you hear it. On the other hand, for months, not to say for years, it has expressed the most harsh grades, labels, insults, etc. And go on with it. And if that's the mirror of her behavior, I don't have any problem with it. Just keep it up. The second thing, the thesis of God, is that we're the ones that are disrupting something and the SDS is calming something, if it wasn't sad, it would be funny. And that's where I'm gonna stop. Third thing, the abuse says 25 MPs. Well, do you really underestimate your colleagues here in Parliament? Do you think they're naive people? In the end, I want to tell you very clearly, remember this well, I am not afraid of your slanders, attacks, insults. I have no problem writing columns to insult, to attack, to do all that, Denis Bećirović can handle it. Don't just touch the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, don't threaten the Dayton Peace Agreement, don't destroy the constitutional order of the country. And I call on my colleagues not to fall for your cheap propaganda, because the goal of these agenda points is to have fun with this without today talking about who's tearing down the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is why the whole world and the whole of Europe has risen. And not to tell you about other things, because I'm never going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7173	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7174	This is where Parliament should plead today, is it, on some things, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7175	Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that this atmosphere, which is truly inappropriate and unacceptable, will not be any better for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is aimed at us not to speak white bread. We found this white bread here as a legal proposal three months ago, four months ago, it cannot come to the agenda in the House of Peoples and thus show that Parliament is responsible for these issues and to do serious savings. We have a lot of challenging proposals here today to supplement the agenda. And with my colleague, Prodanović, I don't agree that there are only two, I think, if anything, there's one of ours, which is the question of white bread, which has to be discussed, that's the third. And I'm looking for a half-hour break to cool down, sit down, discuss, and settle in our clubs what we're going to do, since the proposals are really challenging and very serious to supplement the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7177	I'd only ask you to finish the agenda debate and I'll give you half an hour's rest, just to end this, we're in progress. Mrs. Pandurević and Mr. Košarac and then we'll take a break. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7178	As a legalist, I only want to say one thing to my esteemed colleague Bećirović. You do not need to defend the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina from us from the SDS or from Republika Srpska. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should defend against those like you. Niko one knocks it down like you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7179	Mr. Staša Košarac. And in the end, you have no right to a replica, you had two, Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7180	Respected working presidency, colleagues, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. Of course, using Article 71(1) on behalf of the SNSD MEPs, I propose that today, at the 15th session, a decision be reached on the discharge of MP Šefik Džaferović from the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives, or a member of the House of Representatives. We have repeatedly asked the previous sessions for this item to be found on the agenda. You have had the opportunity to read and to bring your judgment on all of this. The latest developments, and with regard to the letter sent to the General Security Council Secretary Ban Ki-mun, speak enough about how we were right. We can, Mr. Sarajlić, laugh, I think it's time for us to focus a little more seriously on some things, but good. It's a reflection of your approach to business. We are looking for Mr Džaferović's replacement because he signed a letter with 24 other members of the House of Representatives, which was sent to the UN Secretary-General. The letter sent at the Memorial of the House of Representatives, Mr Ban Ki-mun, has also been forwarded to which the House of Representatives is falsely quoted as showing respect and understanding for Britain's initiative and efforts to adopt a resolution on Srebrenica in the UN Security Council. The above conclusions, which this House, together with Parliament's Denis Bećirović's initiative on the British resolution, rejected at its 14th session on 30 June, are cited by a number of other untrue and malicious findings, aimed at misleading the UN Secretary-General, representatives of the Security Council member states, as well as the international public. By signing, as well as by sending that letter and mentioning the conclusion on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr Džaferović and others signed knowingly and flagrantly violated Article 4 paragraph 3 d) of the Constitution of BiH, as well as the members of 85 and 153. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We believe that, apart from the drastic violation of the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of this House, Mr Džaferović and the other signatories of the letter have elements and criminal acts which are viewed in the abuse of parliamentary positions and memoranda of the House of Representatives. However, it is the work and obligations of other institutions. It is our obligation to point out that this is another serious proof of our claim that you, Mr. Džaferović, cannot represent this House and its MPs, and should be relieved of the duties of the chairman. Please colleagues and colleagues, if they want the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do their job in the most qualitative way, to respect this argument. And our relationship with some other conclusions, some of the points that are scheduled for today's session, will be determined, and, of course, as our proposals are also supported. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7181	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. Mr. Zaim Backović had two replicas, but Denis Bećirović did not. I apologize to him, he's entitled to another replica, and we'll conclude the debate. Here you go, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7182	Mr. Chairman, thank you for finding the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7183	They warned me, I have to listen to what they tell me. Thank you very much. Final debate on the agenda. We're voting on the agenda in, is 30 minutes looking for a break? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 30 minutes. So, we continue, the final debate on the agenda, 12:45 we vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7188	I thank the chairman. With regard to the answer you have, as you have stated, received from the Ministry of Justice in accordance with Article 185(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform you that I am not satisfied with the answer, and, in accordance with the same article, I would like to announce an additional parliamentary question. I am also taking this opportunity to remind again that the BiH Council of Ministers has not delivered an answer to even four of my parliamentary questions, which I asked more than 30 days ago as allowed by the Rules of Procedure. On two issues, the Home Ministry's College of Foreign Affairs, both concerned, has already sent two emergency services. As for the other two, according to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the second in addition to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the College has sent one emergency, but there are no answers to any of these four questions. I would really ask the services to, in some more effective way, urinate the delivery of responses from the Council of Ministers, because it is really excessive that the MP waits longer than 30 days, in these cases for almost two months, to, I dare say, relatively simple questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7189	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, comment. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7190	I'm completely unhappy with the answer I got. And apparently those who should give an answer and learn about the problems of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both entities do not want to enter into the measure of what I was talking about. And in accordance with the same article that he mentioned, not to elaborate now, the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Damir, I will make an effort to reach the relevant truth and that those who act like this, when it comes to telecommunications space, or make an effort to resolve it or be resolved. I said I owned photos from Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Prijedor, Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Bihaća, Mostar, Trebinj, Foche, so I'll attach them to that agency so they can see that I didn't lie. To see how these pillars were used, how the cities became cities of intertwined ground wires, and read the laws, and then see what is prescribed in the cities, where the waters go and how they go. And a special story is that citizens are discriminated against, and the first member of our Constitution is the Convention on Human Rights. Citizens who move to other operators, they don't know that it's like, say when they protect their apartments, they hire agencies that set up their devices, they can't get over those other telecom operators, but they have to pay extra and they're citizens of the second order. It is just a small fraction, especially how damaged the budgets are, the budget of the state, the Budget of Republika Srpska and the Budget of the Federation. So I don't even know what her job is. And I'm going to make the next session predefine the question and deliver, what I said, I own the photos that the citizens delivered from the place that I've listed. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7191	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind myself that I have asked the question I have raised to four institutions, the BiH Ministry of Justice, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, the Constitutional Court of BiH and the Court of BiH, and this is a convicted war crime by General Đukić, who has received 20 years in prison, which has been allowed to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, made possible under alleged signs, in a manner that currently resides in Serbia, and that is a crime at the Tuzlan gate, where more than 200 young people have been shot, 70 of whom have been killed, and around 130 are as easily injured as possible. Of course, I thank the answers I received, but I am really surprised that no initiative has been launched so far by any judicial institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is responsible for the convictions in Serbia, because this is made possible by the International Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. So, of course, this was still the case and why this legislation, which is as it is, was applied, why the verdict was annulled and allowed to be sentenced to be free and to get an opportunity to simply leave Bosnia and Herzegovina and to be free in Serbia uninterrupted. I hope, after all this, that the relevant institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina will raise the issue and that it will be allowed, based on the International Agreement with Serbia, to be convicted of the crime at the Tuzlan Gate, to serve and to go to deserved detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7193	Thank you. Mr. Fehim Škaljić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7194	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am concerned about the fact that I received an answer in the third month, a question that is crucial to many of the processes that Bosnia and Herzegovina should make for an effective country in which to live normally. The coordination mechanism is not anything that can, by the way, bring the time that stands before us does not give us the right to not have it. Today, we will also have points on the agenda that are directly related to the ability to produce these points of the agenda through the coordination mechanism. Obviously, it is seen from the answer, that we still don't have the coordination mechanism and that we don't know when we're going to have it. The ambience in which what the coordination mechanism could be achieved could simply be a productive document does not exist. It's not just the relationship between the entity and the state government, it's the relationship between the municipalities and the canton, and it's absolutely not being taken seriously. That is why I believe that the issue of the coordination mechanism will need to be further considered at a single session of this Parliament. I knew the facts about the coordination mechanism, and as far as the authorities came in that sense, but I wanted to put this on Parliament's website because of the public's 44 issues and ask that the answer I received, given the character of the issue that is being raised, the interest of all citizens, be put on Parliament's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7195	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Borjana Krišto, vice president and then, I apologize to Mrs. Maji.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7196	Thank you, Chairman. Here is my question addressed to the county ministries of internal affairs and entity, of course and county prosecutors, entity and state, and it was – how many people were involved in investigations into the destruction of state property in the Federation of BiH during the social rebellion, political demonstrations, or how does someone define the event from February 6th and 7th of last year in Tuzla, Zenica, Sarajevo, Mostar and Bihaq, at what stage of the investigation, possible indictments and court proceedings, and what are the legal qualifications of the cases? I just went out to comment, actually I can't give the answer because I didn't get the answer. So I expect the final answer from all these institutions that are numbered. The answer I received from the Ministry of the Interior of Posavska County is that there were no cases and there were no investigations in this course, so that's all I wanted to comment on, and I'm going to give the final answer by getting a complete answer from all of these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7197	Thank you. And Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7198	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I take the opportunity to remind the Council of Ministers almost every session, i.e. since Mr, the Honorable Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister is present here today, I sent an inquiry on 3 April 2015 and I have never received an answer to the asked question. Despite the urgency, which the Honorable Chairman referred to in June of this year, I did not get an answer to my question. Besides, I referred another question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Enonomic Relations. I also didn't get an answer to that question. I, as the Honorable Minister is present today, also since both questions concern the Veterinary Office, is impossible that this service that counts many employees cannot give at least an answer that there is no answer. And that's some answer. Well, according to that answer, I'll know how to do it. Since there is absolutely no sentence in your Annual Report that might give me an indicative answer to my question, I ask you one more time, because I will not repeat it. So even with the ER, I can't use it, since only after the session can we ask 45 questions. If I ask two, I should just base myself on these two questions for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7199	Thank you. So, no more reported. I'm finalizing this item on the agenda. Moving to point three, that's Ad. 3. The adoption of conclusions on events during the Potocari memorial ceremony, 11 July 2015 – Proposer: Ambassador Aleksandra PandureviPandurević This item is listed on the agenda in accordance with the decisions of the House and Colleges in the extended composition of yesterday's sessions. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7201	Well, I, my colleagues, will really appreciate, just one little correction from these conclusions, because from talking to my colleagues, I've seen that these are the conclusions that the House of Peoples has adopted, completely prescribed, theirs. The predstavnički of Representatives is deeply regretting that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been brought into such a situation and is referring to an apology to Mr. Vučić with hope, and is now erasing this part – as he said himself, and then this remains that everything that has happened will not be caused by the consequences. It means so much, because I've been asked by some colleagues to make that kind of correction, so that this conclusion would be acceptable to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7202	Okay. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7203	The Honorable Chairman. So yesterday I was also at the Expansive College and today I was against having this kind of formulate agenda item on the agenda of the House of Representatives. As you can see, these agenda points have passed, but today it was not possible to pass the agenda point to discuss attacks on returnees, including a brutal attack on Nermin Hanific from Kotor Varosha. Why is that? Why have we allowed some points to happen and some can't, it's for the public to judge how such things can happen here at the BiH Parliament's session. However, one other thing is not clear to me, at least from those people who undoubtedly advocate the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina of equal citizens and peoples. And the thing is -- what do these apologies mean, in this case, the BiH legislator is one-sided, and on the other hand we have the views of 46 of us. You know in Banja Luka, at the beginning of the reconstruction of the destroyed Ferhadia, that Murat Babić was killed. Is anyone convicted of this murder? Did the entity assembly condemn the act? It's not. You know how hundreds of fans of Bosnia and Herzegovina went in Belgrade, lynched and stoned. Has the Serbian Parliament made an apology? It's not. Has there been an apology and a confession of genocide in Srebrenica? It's not. Now I ask the question – how is it today on Parliament's agenda? I made my position very clear at the beginning of the session. I strongly condemn every form of violence and call on the competent authorities to do their part of the job, but who and why they want Parliament to discuss it now and that Parliament is apologizing to someone. Allow me, I am an emissary here in this House legally elected by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this House I have spoken, spoken and said that one honest and well-intentioned Bošnjak is worth the same to me as an honest and well-intentioned Srbin, Hrvat, Rom, Jevrej, Bosanac, any man in this country and out of this country. And I, I don't know whose policy I was put into office today as well as my colleagues, that I should now apologize to Aleksandar Vučić, who also said in the Serbian Parliament that a Srbin should be killed by a hundred Bošnjak. Has the Serbian Parliament made an apology for killing Scorpion police units here in Bosnia and Herzegovina underage children, and still filming it with a camera? It's not. Could one of us have been above Calemegdan with a rifle in his hand? Aleksandar Vučić was like Seselj's volunteer here with a rifle in his hand above our capital, as a citizen of Serbia. And that's the capital of internationally recognised states. My question is, why are we being put in a position to humiliate ourselves so much, to do these things that we do. Either we establish a principle so we can start with the International Court of Justice's ruling first or we don't embarrass ourselves. So, I'm against this kind of wording of the agenda, I'm against the content of these conclusions and not that I'm going to be abstention, but I'm going to be against this kind of one vote here at the House of Representatives. I call on all MPs in the House of Representatives to reject these conclusions and return the dignity and dignity of both the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the victims in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7204	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7205	Of course, not wanting to get in and create tensions, not wanting to get into what's called what happened there, because that's what the court is going to bring, the ones in charge, there's our minister, and we're, hopefully, going to get exactly who it is, what it is, how it is, and in what way, etc. I, as a man, condemn every violence. I'm ready to stand up against any violence. And now this is going to work - but. What my colleague Bećirović said – we are the legislative body of this state and as such should have, at the very least, a feeling that is said for everything we have a unique attitude. We must look at each other in a unique way. Like when gender equality is sought, and the conditions of life, and the way we treat people, to every citizen. There's something in this called condescending and ultimately inequality, whether I want it or not. On this day of 1993, in this town, where we are sitting, take it, you have this in the UNPROFOR observer's report, it dropped 3,600 grenades. Today, '93. A year. And look when it was Mr. Vučić's video over Sarajevo. Šešelj, Vučić and Tomislav 47 Nikolić, precisely in artillery positions. Compare that, it's not hard to compare. So, look, you have the video, you have the day of the video, you have the UNPROFOR report, you have it, you have it. It's very simple. And I didn't experience that someone apologized, as I didn't experience any parliament, except for the global condemnation of my violence, which I immediately say, and I demand that all initiators, instigators, perpetrators identify and publicly state who they are and against them all possible legal sanctions are imposed. But I cannot accept saying that a hundred Bošnjak will be killed for a Srbin. We're all flesh and blood people. And if there is a Bog, there is one, and all of us are the only ones, as we worship him, it's only because we're under circumstances, living circumstances born here or a hundred miles away, and if we were born in Siberia we'd be Eskim, if we were born in Australia before the settlement, we'd be Aborigines and so on. Religion has been brought to us and brought through families, not personally accepted. The names of none of us sitting here were given by our will, but by the will of those who created us. And for the name and last name and religious tradition, which was inherited, a hundred for one should be killed. It's something I can't accept. As I cannot accept the hypocrisy of complete inequality when it comes to Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat. Only Bošnjak have no right to, through parallel ties, dual citizenship, only Bošnjak do not have that, and then you have a situation that Bošnjak from Serbia do not have the right to education in the Federation, but are foreign citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7206	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7207	This is too wide a topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7208	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7209	As far as I'm concerned, I won't support these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7210	Thank you very much. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7211	Here, I will try not to open up any possible topics that, of course, would not contribute at all to the calming of passion, nor to the solution of this problem. I was in the Potocari that day, and I know perfectly what was going on that day. However, the activities that preceded that day, marking 20 years of genocide against Bošnjak in Srebrenica, actually raised tensions, primarily between Srbin and Bošnjak within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not good, and unfortunately, the country's neighbouring prime minister, Mr. Vučić, played a significant role in all this. What the journalists asked me immediately after that event, it seems to me that my answer was, here I will paraphrase not to repeat, that what happened was not good, because if the mothers of Srebrenica could accept Vučić and welcome him and greet him, then we should not have treated ourselves in such a way as, here are the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the prime minister of the neighbouring state. And that's where it's supposed to end. If someone should apologize to 48, then it is the prime minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, then it is the Council of Ministers and they are quite polite, I think, and we have reached conclusions on the Council of Ministers and that is what relaxes relations between the two countries. However, it is always a step further, always a step further that we apologize to someone. We are the BiH Parliament and I don't think we should apologize to anyone. Particularly unacceptable is this conclusion by 2nd distinguished colleague Pandurević. And SDA will not support this conclusion number two. Of course, we condemn any incident, especially an incident that means a disturbance of relations between the two countries, which are neighbours, which are directed at each other. And so I think that, in fact, our discussions today should not be in favour of raising tension, in favour of opening up all the painful topics, which unfortunately opened here in Parliament, but rather going towards calming passion, in the direction of offering a solution. And I was particularly impressed by today's discussion of the distinguished colleague Lazar, who is not here, in fact, we here in Parliament should not raise our tensions and open up painful topics on which we do not have a coherent attitude, which we do not have even the same attitudes, on the contrary they are completely diametric. For this reason, I think that this session would end in a professional, polite way, and I think that we should focus our discussions on finding a solution, and I think that the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers are acceptable, and here for the House of Representatives, and that in this direction we should have our discussion today and going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7212	Thank you. Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7213	Thank you, Chairman. I think the House of Peoples, on the proposal of delegates coming from the SNSD and otherwise from the SDS, is gathered around the Club of Delegations. the nations were proposing. One House has reached this kind of conclusion. I must remind you that Parliament makes up two homes, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. And I would have something to say when it comes to the content of these conclusions that were adopted in the House of Peoples and which are, right here in the House of Representatives. I could say, I would say, much stronger attitudes, stronger qualifications than if it wasn't an attack but an attempt at murder, than that the political top of a constituent people might have been familiar with it, I could talk about it and ask the Minister of Security to say here today whether Naser Orić was there. And we could do anything. We could, Mr. Backović, talk about where you've been, as you talk about where Aleksandar Vučić was. I have no ambition to defend Mr. Vučić, nor do I have the ambition to judge you. It's not my right, I don't have the right and I don't have any jurisdiction. Let some other institutions do so, and I absolutely have no ambition to commit to it at today's session. But we should be aware of the fact that the Prime Minister of the Neighbouring State, who guaranteed the Dayton Agreement, intended to bow down to the victims. He had good communication and talks with his mother. And what did he get? What and what kind of message does Bosnia and Herzegovina send with such an event as July 11th in Potocari? What's that? Who will come again, or who will be next? Now this is about the defeat of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the defeat that we do not know who is responsible today, about having a fully atrophied position of security institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What has 49 of our institutions done so far to shed light on this event? It is the theme of Parliament, never to repeat anything similar to what happened to the Serbian prime minister again. What have we done as the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? In the meeting of visits... they were detained four, released four... just to relax that relationship. I'm talking about it, the challenges of all of us. What kind of message are we sending? I don't want to amnesty for anything that's been done to anyone since '92. '95. A year. But let's not be aware of the fact that the absolute institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have nothing to do with this... That would be an international scandal. I ask – will there be anyone next year..., attack? If the security institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the competent institutions... react urgently and make decisions, we enter an even more uncertain period. I appeal to all of us not to measure the days where someone was and what someone was, but to talk about what came out of Bosnia and Herzegovina that day and what we have today in the institutions that need to do, I guess in accordance with the law, and to look for who's responsible, who planned, who did, who are the perpetrators, etc. It scares us that there is no such thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now. This reminds us of some other events as they were, and we are witnessing these events that institutions of security character and justice at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina have done nothing. And that's why I think someone's trying to ease what happened. Of course, we should welcome further progress... talks. Regional co-operation is needed, good relations are needed. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot erase Serbia. I have no intention of defending Serbia, I'm talking here about relationships as they are. I have an ambition to talk about it, because Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and we need to take care of such relations, the neighbourly relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. What's who when he does, they have institutions that will determine and make certain kinds of decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7214	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7215	First of all, the fact and the truth should not be falsely depicted by the Dayton Peace Agreement. I want to say very clearly – Serbia is not a guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement. In the General Framework Peace Agreement, if someone has not read it, it says that the General Framework Agreement is signed by three sides -- the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And in the complete agreement and in all annexes you can find only a term – page. This situation has led to the fact that another country being a foreign country for peace in an internationally recognised state is a subject for itself, but therefore it is not a guarantee. Well, as long as we're calling on Dayton, then let's call on Dayton. The second thing, this is the year when in July we mark 20 years of genocide in Srebrenica. No legal act, neither in Serbia nor in a smaller BH entity, which means the recognition of genocide. But it will remain written for all time that on the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide in July, today on July 22nd, the parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina apologized to the moral vertical, under the name of Aleksandar Vučić. I don't agree to that. And I call once again on all MPs not to agree to such an act, especially on the 20th anniversary, to preserve the dignity and dignity of this state. And if we're going to do an apology policy in parliaments, then 50 needs to first make an apology for those Scorpion police forces škorpion sent to kill underage children in Bosnia and Herzegovina and not take all the other reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7216	Replica, deputy chairman, Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7217	Our intention was to take advantage of what had been made in the House of Peoples and the adopted letter that should calm the passions that had become ensnared by this event. We think it's a great success that everyone in the House of Nations unanimously supported any text. So we're not going into the quality of the text at all, we're talking about the very act of agreement to calm the situation down. And now you have a situation that some are trying this topic, which should serve to calm relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, to use it to warm up relations. And it's not an accident and it's nothing unusual. There are records, and there have always been, forces that make up their political platform in conflict policy. They ask voters for support because they are aggressive to others, they advocate conflict, and it's clear from this discussion right here. This isn't us at all, we're the promoters, we haven't discussed it at all until this point. We expected this to be a continuation of the agreement to show in some way, here's how we're prepared in some other way to move on with these issues. And I'm not surprised at this kind of discussion, I'm not surprised that Mr. Bećirović is in this way trying to reheat the atmosphere, because it is, he's one of the typical representatives who expects the support of the people in the populist statements and the gleaming of hatred towards others. And I guess that's clear, from the last few months, based on his initiatives. It's much easier to raise the question of Sutorina, which we're going to discuss here for three months, and I don't know how many commissions we have here to discuss, and how much we lose lessons and money, than to tell the workers in Tuzla how to get out of that poverty that they've come into a variety of circumstances. Here, I urge you not to use this good intention to, in some ways, show the willingness to cooperate and to calm the situation in the region, not to use further sharpening and sowing hate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7218	Thank you very much. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7219	Here, the replica on the replica, actually just contributes to moving on and that maybe we're warming up all of our passions together and we don't have a solution to how to get out of this. For this reason, I invite you colleagues to really keep our discussions in one calming tone today, regardless of the different attitudes. But my replica actually refers to Mr. Košarac's exposure. In fact, it is certain that the security services have failed when it comes to ensuring the overall security of all who were present that day in the Potocari and beyond, but, you know, I was on the spot and I saw it all the way and what was going on. When Mr. Vučić arrived from the battery factory to the mesar, there was already a stir and the temperature rose slowly. And then the security services were supposed to cut off the visit, in a way that wasn't actually going through a narrow corridor through the present citizens, who were emotionally loaded all day anyway, that they weren't actually Vučić set up as targets. Unfortunately, at the insistence of some security officials, Vučić did not accept it. It is one thing to be brave and go through the corridor, but the other is to be a representative of one country and to participate in a breach of relations between the two countries. So I think he still has his own merit in all this. And what the Council of Ministers did was perfectly fine and correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7220	Thank you very much. Mr. Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, here's a replica to Mr. Košarac. I mean, Mr. Košarac, you have two arches when you speak on this subject. Here, I will not speak specifically about what happened on July 11th in Srebrenica, but here you are only half an hour ago, as a representative of a political party and club, refused Mr. Denis Bećirović's initiative to get information from the BiH Council of Ministers on Intensification, about attacks against Bosniak returnees in the Bosnian Serb entity, with a special reference to the latest example of the brutal abuse of Nermin Hanifić of Kotor Varoshi. If we are here, and we are not only representatives of political parties, but also representatives, the voice of the people, then we and the name Aleksandar Vučić and the name Nermin Hanifić should mean the same thing, these are God's creatures. Well, if we're going to discuss the topic, which we are currently discussing, about the attack on Mr. Vučić, then you should be principled and support the agenda point proposed by Mr. Bećirović and discuss what is currently going on with returnees in Republika Srpska, i.e. specifically about the attack on Mr. Nermin Hanifić. But here, I will once again warn us here, that this House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly did not have the strength to adopt a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. It is normal that there is no power to apologize deeply to those who took part in the genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7222	Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7223	Thank you. Since Mr. Košarac directly mentioned me, I have to tell him of course, I don't think you listened to me. I turned to the Minister of Security and said I was looking as a man for everything, absolutely everything. And I wish you'd asked me if I was. If I had the chance, I would have been, but I was with a sick mother, if I had any options, I couldn't be. You should have asked me. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I hope that... 52
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7225	He can't, he can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7226	But obviously you didn't mention the dates I said today in 1993, you have a UNPROFOR report, and there are 3,600 grenades down to Sarajevo. Compare now the date of the video and see what day and date Vučić is with his party colleagues above Sarajevo. They're very interesting coincidences. I'm not talking about persona Vučić here, I'm talking about something that's a function. He's... a minister or president of the Serbian government, could have been him or anyone, I'm talking about. And I'm absolutely gonna find those who did it for that. But it is not Parliament that it is and is not that we are playing and that every initiative we put forward you are absolutely against. Tell me, here's why you voted against Dennis, why you're against this one, why you're against that one. I don't mind everything we discuss, but absolutely everything, because it's just going to give us a chance to get out of this dead end where, because of our stupidity, citizens are getting more and more and worse alive. And if it keeps going like this, it's gonna get worse and worse. And as for the Dayton Peace Accords, I'm, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7227	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7228	Here's the ending, one sentence please, I said... we don't have the originals yet, translate it. And what goes on down there in the preamble of signing. These are the actors, those who participated in the creation of chaos in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7229	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7230	They're signatories, and they agree to stop the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7231	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break until 3:00. Lunch break. I call on the Group of Friendships for Western Europe to meet here at 2/2, I call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to do its part of the job. We'll continue at 3:00. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has Mr. Momčilo Novaković, who is not here, then, Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go, Damir, replica. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7233	I'd like to replicate my colleague Košarac a little, because we've heard such words when it comes to the work of security agencies. I am convinced that the Minister of Security did everything in his jurisdiction and what he could, but when you talk about law enforcement agencies at the state level, you and the leader of your party and some other leaders are responsible for the unhappiness of those agencies. Just let the agencies do the job, let us have the right coordination between them and give them the authority to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7234	Okay, thank you. Mr. Momčilo isn't here yet. So, Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7235	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7236	Replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7237	Yes, I have a line to Mr. Bosić, but before a few sentences about what we're talking about. So, as a man and as an MP in this House, I have no problem condemning the attacks on Prime Minister Vučić, I finally belong to a party that has already staged an official protest against, or official condemnation of, these ruthless events in Srebrenica. I most responsibly consider, of course, those who invited Mr. Vučić by guaranteeing him peace, security. And these bodies, first of all, the Presidency, or the Council of Ministers, expressed regret, condemned and apologized. What I have a problem is quite degutant and to say the humble relationship of the proponents of this, these conclusions that again require that this Parliament be made known. Why do we apologize when we have neither called nor guaranteed nor condemned? So, I want to confirm the conviction of these events, and as a member of the OSCE Labour Control Commission, I did so, so I condemned those attacks. And here, that's about what I was going to say. What I'm saying to you, Mr. Bosić, is that you have no right to label people quite easily, and you say that Denis Bećirović is causing quite a riot, a mess, okay, so that's what you're right to do, I mean, even though you said it where you can say it, for the simple reason that your party and you didn't support what, that's the destroyer of order and peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina has done by proposing a law on the ban on hate speech, or by causing any national impatience. You have the opportunity to improve yourself in the coming period and support this Law in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7238	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. 54 I was in Srebrenica, I saw everything. That's what doesn't belong to the host, which doesn't belong to the memorial, which doesn't belong to the genie, it shouldn't have happened, without the difference in all the circumstances and the painful consequences of the war we've had. It's a special place, a special responsibility, and someone has failed what happened. This someone is the government, part of the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are part of the government, the legislative one, we are the headquarters of democracy,...we should be. And on our part, it has to be a requirement to determine what it is and why it happened, whose failures, who are the bearers of responsibility and in this sense are institutionally responding. We see that it's sloppy, we're passing through with no effects, and it just becomes further controversial unnecessary. On the other hand, we as a legislative body need citizens and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina to raise hope for a better future. We need to look for solutions that don't drag us back, but keep the answers from the past, the answers to the past and the directions and the movement of the future. It may be possible for all of us, ladies and gentlemen, in this sense to serve the example of the Mothers of Srebrenica, those whose hearts are certainly more painful than ours and who have found the answers how to offer the hand of the future at some point. And that's what we have to take care of. We will return to the burdens of the past, they must be the focus of our interest, but they must be institutional. That is why I think it is good that the BiH Parliament, both at home, be unique in its view, that these are things that Bosnia and Herzegovina do not need, that they have brought harm and that we simply have to condemn it, and we have a lot to do. Many things will be shared with countries in the region, and we are obliged to find answers in relation to all the burdens. We will, we will support things like in the House of Nations, generated from a simple need, that what has been said and that we condemn and regret, but what has been told from Serbia that this will not affect the future, and that countries will seek solutions to joint progress on the Euro-Atlantic path and road to NATO. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary to address the future interests of this country, the future needs of their population and people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a European perspective, that is economic development and that is co-operation. Incidents of those who were in Srebrenica, who were in Zvornik, and who were elsewhere, only drag us away and make a stalemate on the road that is necessary for us to make as MPs elected by citizens and as a country whose perspective is Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7240	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Marković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, I'm going to try very briefly to say my view of these suggestions of conclusions and at all this point on the agenda. After the more discussions we had here today, listening to all this and thinking about it, man can't take the impression and not say that there are some discussions here, which are today placed and carried out, simply frightening and dangerous and not say, although it is the opposition party, as well as the party I belong to, but for the SDP it must definitely be said – don't ever let Bog ever return as power to the political scene of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is best for them to be the opposition, although even as an opposition, they are very dangerous for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is sad and sad if those who have been very inappropriate and negatively commenting on the proposed conclusions of this material have not seen in this material that it actually has a good intention both for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all its citizens. It is not only a problem whether this Parliament will declare itself and send an apology to another man of one country, who came with good intentions 55 to bow to victims and to all those who suffer for those victims, as it did in Potocari, but if in this country, if some MPs and politicians believe that with this much arrogance, hatred and haughtiness should be treated to Serbia, a state that is, above all, the signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is the state of the Serbian people, and we know that, that a million and 200 thousand Srbin live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, means a lot to Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If in this way, this is how Denis Bećirović or Zaim Backović treats such an abomination, then we are in a big and dangerous problem. What I see in this material and these suggestions, although it is not a SNSD proposal, but we will support it today, and as my colleague Staša Košarac said to me that we wrote this material we would have even more expanded it and were probably even more rigorous in looking for certain things, such as the position of the minister of security that is so talked about and spoken to the public as if it were not about his ministry and did nothing to clean things up. On the contrary, he condemns officials from Republika Srpska, such as the SIPA racer, such as others, allegedly they blame it for what happened in Potocari, and it is not some others who were obliged and responsible for predicting all things. As Mr. Sokolović said today, when Aleksandar Vučić saw that he was going through the corridor of the people who were going to attack him, he was going to stop, to come back. Well, what were those who were supposed to follow him and make sure he got to the place he was headed? And not to mention that the Bosniak member of the presidency, Mr Izetbegović, personally invited Aleksandar Vučić to come and personally guaranteed him security and security in that place. Which, of course, didn't happen and didn't even look at him as a good and decent host at the place when it all happened to Aleksandar Vučić. It is a terrible fact if those who have read or not read this material today do not see that the intention here is to distance Bosnia and Herzegovina from all those hooligans and those who would like to make a problem for all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is sad not to see some in Bosnia and Herzegovina that after the events in Potocari, many security agencies in Europe, the region, and beyond, have continued to characterise and mark Bosnia and Herzegovina as a place and a recruiting centre for many dangerous fundamentalistic and radical forces recruited for ISIL and beyond. So, if you haven't seen from this that Parliament as a democratic institution should be fenced from all this and that, in a way that will apologize to the Prime Minister of a neighbouring country, says that it is being rewarded by everything that has happened there and by those who have committed it, then I really think that some people may have gone astray in politics and that they don't know what to do and what to do here. These are very serious things and we should all take this seriously and think about it and think about the future and the further outcome of all of this. It's terrible if some MPs today say that maybe Vučić shouldn't have come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because he produced what happened in Potocari, he's supposed to Vučić guilty now and because people attacked him there. It is like that when a man knocks down a man from the terrace with the intention of destroying his life and destroying him, and this one falls, and this one says, "Well, yes, I did, but because he didn't hold onto the fence well, he probably wouldn't have fallen, and it wouldn't have happened." That's dangerous stuff. So, it happened, it happened, but we're getting away today and we're not going to condemn it. Do some here think in the hall that we didn't, that it couldn't have happened and vice versa when some other statesmen came, when the president of Turkey came to Bosnia and Herzegovina that no similar or similar incidents could have happened. Or when the president of Croatia came. To understand each other right away, we support both of them for coming and respecting what they've come and respecting that they've come with good intentions,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7242	Time. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7243	But it all went well. But when Serbia's president was due to come, then Bakir Izetbegović was self-initiated and not consulting anyone, canceling a visit to Serbia's president, and Serbia's prime minister when this happened. I think you should all think seriously and fat about this, not because of Aleksandar Vučić, but because of the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7244	Thank you, Mrs. Marković, time is up. Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7245	With all due apologies for coming back, I'm still named by name and last name. I'm sorry you don't know the begraund of me and I'm very sorry if you're only thinking about the '92-95 period, we're still here from '92-95. I'm proud of what I've been. Here I was talking about all the other things and you totally misread what I said, but that's your right, the speaker can say any word. On today, I mentioned it, and now I told Mr. Košarac, your colleague, showed it, it fell, I can do it here if it can be projected, it says, I said 3,600, exactly according to the UNPROFOR records at the time, 3.777 grenades on Sarajevo. Early 600s and some people, dead 40s and something. Among them today, there is still a descendant of my lineage beside me and my brother, and in the whole world as many of us as there are after this war, there are nine of us left in my last name. That's what I was talking about. I was saying that if by accident, the circumstances had happened, I said take it, because you don't believe me, take the footage you have on YouTube, there's no channel on which you don't have, that there was a group of people from Serbia around Sarajevo that day. Which group do you estimate? When it comes to the president or prime minister of a state, I respect it indefinitely because it's a function, I'm not talking about a person, a person, a person, a name, a man, but a function, and I absolutely condemned everything that happened, but I find it inappropriate this never happened anywhere, I've been trying to look, research,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7246	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7247	Never, never happened to one state parliament after the incident that apologized.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7248	Time, thank you very much. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7249	Never.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7250	Thank you. Please don't put me in a position, end the discussions for the intended time. Mrs. Diana Zelenika, as far as I can tell, she asked for a word, if that's it, right? Here you go, ma'am. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7251	Here, since I'm reporting for the first time, I warmly welcome you all. Here, I'm listening to these discussions, and I'd rather agree with Mr. Prodanović who said it should be left for the ninth month, but unfortunately, here it is now. I didn't mean to appear on this agenda point and argue anything, but I am of those 25, as they say, on the right or the left which signed the Srebrenica Resolution, believing that every crime should be prosecuted, but called by the name and last name of the perpetrator of such crimes, rather than to stegmatize the entire people. And that's why I signed it, and I'll always sign something like that. Now again, on the other hand, a man for whom the judiciary has not proved anything is condemned. I would ask that we apply the same archaics to everyone, with all due respect to your personality as chairman, here from the beginning since we have been established, the accusations have been made and this Parliament has been declared all along that the judiciary has not said its own, so you are sitting where you are sitting. On the other hand, there's talk now about Mr. Vučić, I don't know that his judiciary has proven such a thing to him, but he's still the Prime Minister of one country, and what's been going through my head the whole time is that we have to respect what's still going on with the president, the Prime Minister of a country. Here's what I really needed to say, because on the one hand, I'm saying, I'm happy to sign and always sign any crime, but we're also not going to charge someone unproven, and on the other hand, I'm going to call on a judiciary that hasn't proven anything yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7252	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Discussing information on sending letters to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the President of the Canadian Parliament – submitr: Member of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević And this item is listed on the agenda in line with the decisions of the House and the College in the extended composition at yesterday's held sessions. You've got the material. On behalf of the promoter, the deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Mladen Bosić, will address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7254	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I have to tell you that this is an extremely important part of the agenda. This is about future relations within Parliament and this is about, first of all, trust. So a minimum dose of trust is needed to make anything work. Trust is a tricky thing because it takes a lot of time to build it, and you knock it down in one second or in one minute. It's very different for us to come up with some common ground that should be in the interest of 58 of all of us, but that's why one reckless gesture can bring everyone back to the beginning, and we see it these days, we see these months. So our will was good, and our desire was good, to try to create a different atmosphere, and then you see that at any event, particularly politicians who want to get support, they can put everything back a few years, even a decade back. And we are now in a very strange period that is dangerous. This item of the agenda means a story of trust and abuse, above all, of the abuse of the institution of Parliament, or of the BiH House of Representatives. I have no intention of talking at all about any of the contents of that letter that went to Ban Ki-mun or the contents of the letter that went to the president of the Canadian Parliament. So, the topic of this point is not that, is not political opinion or political opinion, the subject of this point is whether it is misused, or whether someone has falsely introduced himself on behalf of the BiH House of Representatives, whether someone has expressed views as the views of the BiH Parliament which are actually personal attitudes and which have nothing to do with Parliament's decisions, which is exactly what happened. I will be direct, Denis Bećirović has organised the collection of signatures to support the document that went to the UN in a way that anyone who has read the document and that letter considers it to be the views of the BiH House of Representatives. I have nothing against any personal attitudes, even against the views of a group of MPs, whether they are 10 or 25 at all, I am talking about whether someone has taken the right to represent himself as Parliament, and behind this is not the decision of the BiH Parliament. So, we have the situation that with the official memorandum of the BiH Parliament, with the official fax of the BiH Parliament, with co-operation with, or services of, the BiH Parliament, a falsification of the document has been forwarded. If someone forwards the conclusions to the United Nations that say, at the first point – the BiH House of Representatives considers this, in the second point – the BiH House of Representatives argues that, in the third – the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament, etc., and in all points, in all six points, the same beginning of the sentence, so it is clear what happened. Someone, and I say Denis Bećirović, falsely introduced himself as the BiH Parliament, in co-operation with Parliament services practically tried to deceive the Security Council, or to whom the letter was sent to Ban ki. The story about it doesn't have a hint, so there's no seal, who's still hitting the seal on the documents, it's not that, it's not a condition of credibility at all. We ask that this case be sanctioned and convicted. Otherwise, it will be a clear signal that any, or most not qualified majority for decision-making, or a group of MPs, can send letters, conclusions and be represented as the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. In another case, in the case of a letter of support that went towards the president of the Canadian Parliament, I am not surprised again, the initiator of all this is Denis Bećirović. In that case, it has also violated the statute and any other powers of the Commission for Foreign Policy. It clearly writes there - acts that do not go to Parliament, or acts that are final, adopted on that Commission, mean they cannot send the Foreign Affairs Commission to any Parliament or to anyone, unless it has been voted in the way that this is foreseen for the functioning of Parliament. Those things that go to Parliament with the Commission require a simple majority, for what is the final act and final conclusion of the Commission, decisions must be made in accordance with and in the way that the House of Representatives does. And it's clear in the Rules of Procedure about work and it doesn't have any dilemma. You can do legal or any other exhibition to try to prove that that's not the case, but that's how and you know very well that's the case. In the rule on international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I will read to you – the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of Nations, in the following text, the Commission responsible for foreign affairs, in the implementation of the international activities of the Parliamentary Assembly, worrys about: a) the regular delivery of reports to colleagues with a proposal for their further distribution. So in the act, the House of 59 peoples and the House of Representatives say that everything that goes outside must pass through the College. And the situation that six, or five members of the foreign policy committee, with three votes, signed one of the deputies, regardless of any attempts to agree and agree, clearly point you to a bad intention. So I'm not discussing the content of any document at all, but if this House doesn't condemn obvious practice and not sanction the obvious practice that, that the usurped intelligence of the House of Representatives, then we can no longer trust this House of Representatives. And here, please, if anyone tries to defend what happened, we understand that there is no co-operation here, so I urge you to all rise above personal views and personal opinions and see if we can work according to the rules prescribed for work and decision-making. Otherwise, the consequences will be very difficult and the mistrust that exists will be even deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7255	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7256	The Honorable Chairman. So, I see that fellow Bosić has been thoroughly preparing himself for this agenda point, but the arguments he has offered are arguments that stand on glass feet. And I am particularly sorry that in this building of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, BiH counterpart Bosić threatens, announces some hell, speaks of dangers, inconceivable consequences, etc., etc. Don't do this to a colleague of Bosić, you know which man, in the place where you are, the president of the SDS has been doing it here. Forget that story, and even if you threaten me to tell you right now, no one's afraid of you. That's number one. Two, this letter was signed by 25 MPs of the House of Representatives and is written here in that letter – we would like to give you the conclusions it supports and signed by most of the MPs of this House, period. If we wanted to write what you're invoking, we would have written this is a ruling from the Pravovnica home and then Mr. Džaferović would have signed it with the protocol, with the seal. It's not done and it's a fact and don't deceive the public. Next thing you know, why so much, my colleague Bosiću, the double arches of you, what would you like? So that some of them can write in this country, and others can write in this country, and the others can keep quiet. That you need to justify yourself now to Mr. Dodik and prove your patriotism, that's what you do, but don't introduce double arches. How did a member of the BiH presidency and chairman Mladen Ivanić send a letter before us to the UN, on the basis of which the Presidency's decision, according to which the Bureau's Rules of Procedure, was made? Here is the Rules of Procedure of the Presidency, Article 9, Article 10, so I don't read to you how decisions are made there. How does he have the right to speak his mind? Why didn't you honestly say, here we are looking into the eyes, as Ivanić signed when he sent that letter, did he even call the House session, did he talk to his colleagues? At least these conclusions are known to have been the subject of the debate before they were sent, they received the support of the majority, and today in the second round they will be declared, and Ivanić sent that he had not even held a debate. But you, fellow Bosić, don't want to talk about it, you'd like to introduce some double arches. How could an entity president send letters to the UN, did he talk to the entity vice presidents? He represents all citizens and peoples by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, did he consult other peoples when he sent it, when he sent it every year? It's not. 60 You are talking about a memorandum, do you want to take out the papers and documents here to see how members of the College of the Republic of Slovenia, who sat where you are sitting today, sent certain letters and at which memo. What kind of double arches are these now? And if it is your intention, and obviously it is, that Ivanic can write, that Dodik can write, that others can write, and we can keep quiet, and that won't be possible. We need to bring in the same arches and start speaking honestly and openly here. Furthermore, you mention some sanctions, I suggest you do not mention sanctions and I suggest you do so on good faith. You've been a member of the College for eight months now, can you go out here and tell Parliament about the 8 months you've resolved and ended the Constitutional Court of BiH's verdict, and you're obliged to do so? And I'm gonna stop there, so I don't tell you any more about that subject. You would, if, establish responsibility for 25 MPs, but you wouldn't for some other things, you would do it selectively. Think about these things a little bit, it's not such a one-sided story. She's got both her face and her face.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7257	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7258	And as for today, you said we were arguing some hate, etc. I am the promoter and this Parliament has adopted an initiative to pass by the end of the year a law banning the challenge of religious, national and any other hatred.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7259	Time, time, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7260	You didn't vote, but I expect that when that law comes to an end of the year that you will support such a law and act...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7261	Thank you for your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7262	to show who's against hate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7263	Replica, Mr. Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7264	Here's the document that went to the UN. Conclusions, first point.../read in English/... The second point is the same, everything is the same. You misrepresented yourself, this is a fraud. This is a classic hoax, it's clear what's behind this intention. Secondly, I am not protecting Ivanić, I am talking here about the institution in which I participate and for which I have been elected. About what Ivanić wrote, what Izetbegović wrote and what Dodik wrote, there are institutions that need to take care of it. Why don't two members of the Bureau put that on the presidency as a part of the agenda, if it wasn't okay. And by the way, I'll tell you 61 Ivanic didn't misrepresent himself. He wrote that he wrote that letter, he did not hide behind the Bureau's institution. He did not say the BiH presidency has reached conclusions or considered that. Therefore, it has no resemblance. And even if there was something, there are two members of the presidency in the Bureau from two other nations that I'm sure would react to being problematic. Second, I didn't summon any hell. Look, I was talking a minute before you and all the people heard what I said, but you obviously hear something else that you want to hear. I didn't charge, I'm not looking for fines for 25 MPs. MPs can't have sanctions, especially if they're cheated. I'm looking for responsibility for whoever led them to this situation, who organized this situation. Not to you MPs, these 25 MPs signed under this document, which is a fake, but they signed you on an empty sheet of paper. The sanctions therefore apply to whoever organised it, who also cheated on those in the service who allowed the procedure and past their powers to help it be shown as an official document of the BiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7266	Thank you. The good part was already said by Mr. Bosić from what I was going to say. If someone says so in their conclusion – Parliamentary, House of Representatives and so on. Article 4(3) The BiH Constitution clearly says the House of Representatives is making decisions. Niko of us here, we don't enter the contents of the letter at all, can even say something that even says: The House of Representatives finds that today is Wednesday and that it is very warm outside, unless it is voted in this House of Representatives. Mr. Bećirović, we know from the talks with his colleagues that they trust you, not knowing that you will write the House of Representatives, gave their signatures to the Bianca. It is not disputed, we undersigned 25 MPs from the House of Representatives we consider, no one slows it down, you have absolutely right, but there is no, no one here can say House of Representatives, that this is the position of the House of Representatives from us. So what are we going to do, here's to get 13 of us together now and say that the predstavnički of Representatives supports the referendum on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, which Milorad Dodik has issued, which he would have given up on. Because such behavior is given legitimacy and behavior on the other hand. If we're talking about the letters he sent, and you're alluding to, my colleague Tadić, I'm sorry about a lot of new colleagues here who don't know you enough like us who already sat here, yes, my colleague Tadić wrote. But you know why he wrote? Because you wrote to the President of the Swedish Parliament on behalf of this Parliament why the public television system shows the film. And the man, to save the face of this country, because you probably thought that he had an impact like when SDP had an impact on federal television and dictated contributions, that he also dictated contributions on Swedish television, so Ognjen Tadić followed you, the house of the staff, nicely sent a letter to the president of the Swedish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7267	Time. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7268	in which he wrote that we welcome the freedom of the media and that even in this country we do not interfere in the freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7269	Thank you, Mrs. Pandurević. Mr. Damir Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7270	Only Mr. Bosić. I'm glad to hear we're talking about trust here, and I'd like to see that trust on some other issues. But it bothers me to hear that people who work in technical services are blaming themselves, doing their job. I mean, it's not the time, it's not the space. If we're going to take an honest look at the Foreign Affairs Commission minutes, we know that she's in charge of the Secretary of the House of Representatives, that the opinion has not come and that people have been doing their job. So if we need to discuss, to discuss, let us discuss between us, rather than bring problems to people who are technical staff, who are doing their job and who are serving parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7271	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. It's undeniable that everyone here is doing their job. And in this case, everyone was doing his job. One of them signed it, one of them sent it from college, one of them ordered them to send it to each other, one of them believed that someone would read it, one of them might not, but they joined because it would be bad if they weren't on that list, etc., etc. So everyone here is doing their job. Just because you're doing a job doesn't mean doing the job right. That's what we're talking about. Did everyone do their job right here? And it's obvious they didn't. I was just before when I spoke like that, and neither do I, when I suggested that we form that special investigation group, and now I would suggest that my colleague Bećirović run for presidency. I think it would be an ideal opportunity for all of what we heard today about the Presidency, a man in practice to realize and show how this Presidency functions as a single body, how everyone thinks the same way, and how everyone behaves in accordance with the Constitution. It has not worked so far for the members of the Bureau, I believe it would have worked for the members of the presidency, if he were there. Don't let people discuss the presidency. There are clearly defined rules there. Whether someone broke it or not, let them decide. After all, we have no right to do that. We can criticise in the media, but here in Parliament we have no right to do so. At least two facts here are quite clear. The first, that there was a conscious delusion of international institutions, an attempt. Let's get this straight. No one's fooled anyone here because nobody's even read this. It's not even written to read, it's written for the local public, it's written, it's every 63 people knew who signed this, that no one would ever read this, especially Ban Ki-mun and his employees. As I suppose these people in the presidency knew, even if read, they would adapt without any meaning. So, the attempt to deceive, unfortunately, is more than evident, and on the other hand the demeaning of this institution. The key thing is that this Parliament is belittled by 25 people saying they are Parliament. I don't mind if one of you disrespects this institution. Not while I'm in it, I don't mind because I'm going to fight here, not because of this institution, but because I think we can all satisfy our interests here through the fight. And my own, when I say my own, I mean the interests of the people and the interests of the election bases that have chosen us. And now, on that side, Parliament is important to us, and I think it should be important to all of you who signed this. I, on the other hand, look, much less on the side of damage done to some people, or I don't know, because there isn't, apparently, and there's damage to this Parliament where, here's something I'm doing. When spoken as a consequence of this, the question of responsibility is raised. It's not possible there's no responsibility. It's impossible. So, in itself, it's impossible to have no responsibility. This responsibility may be the responsibility of officials and may be political responsibility. The responsibility of the staff member will be easily determined. Although I can see that in those letters, everyone has some excuse, but it will be determined easily. You know who had to check it out, you know who had to do what he had to do without checking it out, who had to check it out before he ordered it. It is known who could have seen if it was brought to Parliament, and who could not from those people who were doing it there. I guess they knew all that. And we'll determine that easily. When it comes to political responsibility, it relies on what I just said, and that is to respect the institution in which we are here. That political responsibility is determined by us here, or not determined. If we can determine it, we'll determine if we can't determine it. Whether the public understands what we are going to bring here or not depends on how those who do so will present it to the public. The fact is, and that's something special, I'm not going to say irritated,
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7273	Time, Mr. Novaković's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7274	but worrying, is that, instead of telling people, I'm sorry, I'm going to end up with this sentence, instead of saying -- people, come on, we wrote it the way we wrote it, can we sit down now to end this story once and go into some other, not to defend ourselves and attack the Presidency in our defense.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7275	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Mešić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I want to replicate to all those who bring, including Mrs. Milica's wishes, who bring actually SDP into any context that has to do with the demolition policy. Of course it doesn't even make sense or that's the way it is. When I signed this letter to Ban Ki-mun, me and 64 MPs, who did it, we were neither naive nor unwitting, but we expressed our position and stressed that it was the attitude of these people. So, my personal cause, I didn't think or intend to plead the UK Security Council Resolution, but when a member of the Presidency did it the way it did, I realized that I had to tell my own court myself. And imagine that MPs, 25 of them, will write about their relationship to some question, so they will not write it on toilet paper but will write it on the memorandum. And what a violation it is, take it and read the coat of arms, seal law, law governing office operations, and you will see that the memorandum does not actually represent any official document unless it is verified, authorized, etc. So neither was a precedent made, because it was a common practice and in previous terms MPs, members of the College, addressed various institutions and did not suffer any harm. It was not our intention to replace Parliament, nor are we so foolish that we think that we are Parliament. We are not Parliament, we are a group of people who have legally and legitimately expressed their position.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7277	Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7278	Well, you see, when you talk about legitimacy or legal attitude, then you'd have to make it the way it's done in Parliament, you can't do it in a different way. So it's obvious here that this is about Denis Bećirović's fraud with intent. I totally understand when you say you're not naive. You are not exactly naive, because the letter is written among other things, most MPs. It's not the qualified majority, it's the majority of MPs. It is your intention that you make it perfectly clear that the Parliamentary Assembly has largely established the conclusions you have sent. So, the mass here is everything Mr. Bosić talked about and other debaters and definitely, so I understand what's fact and what's definitely going to happen, unless there's a reaction for us sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly, this is an anti-Dayton action to me. You here do not want me to participate in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. And I am a people's elected representative in this House, and I should be consulted when drawing up any kind of document that needs to come out of this Parliamentary Assembly. I ask the question why do you underestimate me as an individual? Why don't you offer me such a piece of paper so I can consider that paper, see what it says in that paper, consider it here in the Parliamentary Assembly. So you are working to build mistrust and not trust in this Parliamentary Assembly. The question is, how are we going to solve many important issues that come before this Parliamentary Assembly if we are going to solve it the way you do, and I am telling you that you are doing the wrong thing? And what kind of message is this to people who live in this country? That we'll do it the way you do it. If we do that, I'm afraid we'll get into a much bigger problem that we're in right now. What I have to say is that what I heard here today in these benches, I, believe me, if someone had told me before that I had the attitude towards Denis Bećirović that I had, I would say, no, it's not that person, it's the person who's from a social democratic story, it's a completely different story. I must tell you that I am amazed at what I heard from Denis Bećirović here in the benches of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, replica. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7280	Thank you very much. I'm just going to take a brief look at what we've been able to hear on several occasions about trying to deceive, a conscious attempt at deception, and since I'm one of those 25 on the list, I just want to say that I don't accept that it's a deception and I'm trying to find the right words why I don't think so, why don't I think it's a hoax. First, it's about government signatures. We all, no one lied, we all signed. And in that respect, you couldn't talk about some fake. Secondly, 25 MPs were signed and were not willing to sell under parliament, it was attached with these conclusions attached to the list. Which means again, it's not about deception, there's nothing behind the back of someone else's radio, we've signed, someone added that list there, and besides, it's about 60% of this Parliament, 25 MPs are about that measure. Well, in that respect, I don't think we should blame the joint services, because they are a service to this Parliament, if it really gave 25 people here their signatures, it stands behind this text, then I guess those services are bound to do so. It wasn't official, as far as I know it wasn't, it didn't go through protocol, nothing, but the service that was requested was done, so I don't think we should blame the joint services. If we have to argue here, then we're here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7282	The replica or better said correction of the wrong allegation is on the presentation of Mr Mirsad Mešić, who said that the destructive and obstructive actions of the SDP are the wishes of Mrs Milica. It's not about me, Mr. Mešiću. It's about my wishes. It's about the defacto of your actions. Denis Bećirović is one, I think the only chairman in the history of this House who, as chairman, was removed in the past council because of his actions as we now have in action and here at the debate. Because of his writings and sending letters to various sides of the world without Parliament's knowledge as the chairman of this House. And we have him in the past, for colleagues who are first in this term, we have replaced him then as chairman of the House because he did it. But Denis Bećirović continued to do so today in a much stronger and more dangerous form and variants. And by the way, when it comes to responsibility for these actions, it is evident that it is political and disciplinary responsibility. The political responsibility is on the side of Denis Bećirović, and it is disciplinary with those officials of Parliament who participated in this and acted on all this. It is impossible for the Foreign Affairs Commission's secretary to know how the Foreign Affairs Commission works, and when a simple majority is enough and when all three constituent nations must be represented, so when it comes to the final decisions of the Foreign Affairs Commission which do not go to the House plenary session, then all three peoples must be represented. This was not the case in making this decision when it was made for the Canadian Parliament to send a letter of gratitude, but the Secretary of the Commission went over it and let it go that way. It was his duty to warn the members of the Commission about this. That didn't happen. And what is there now, what kind of unknown, whose disciplinary responsibility is there? Well, it's clear, it's only a matter of course whether some people want it to be clear or go over it as they've gone over a lot of harder things and serious things in this country. Well, of course today is the question of who is breaking this country, says colleague 66 Pandurević, best of all, the real model of how Bosnia and Herzegovina breaks down is what Denis Bećirović is doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7283	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7284	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. My replica refers to distinguished colleague Hanka Vajzović. So this morning I said, unfortunately we toys are in the hands of different manipulations including decisions of power, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This, unfortunately, proved to be true in this example. So we're talking about something that's absolutely not controversial. I do not dispute that anyone can address anyone, but not under false, therefore, data or memoranda, or false manipulations of different numbers. I don't even argue that 25 is more than half 42. That's absolutely not controversial. But after this sentence, a sentence was to be closed, but to put an end to it and say that it is the majority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but that this opinion and decision are not in line with the Constitution of BiH, nor with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and reflects the position exclusively of the groups signed. And I don't mind having a letter like that under a memo. So that's quite clear. What does it matter? You see, dear friends, what happened after 11, today is July 22nd, everything is the same, but the degree of mistrust in Bosnia and Herzegovina is much deeper. I don't want to deepen it in any way through this discussion. What was the decision? Well, you saw it. Don't be naive, what could have been since '92. '95. in this country? Well, I guess you're aware of that. Do I need bad and bad luck in this country to contribute or build trust and peace? That's one question. And another thing, when you mention other institutions, you see I have an objection to the Presidency. I believe the BiH presidency was obliged to set itself up according to this. Why didn't Mr. Ivanić do it? It's not my jurisdiction to question. But it is quite clear that he acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Bureau as Mr Dodik did
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7285	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7286	neither on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly nor on behalf of the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7287	Time to Mr. Prodanović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7288	So let us try to solve this and get out of this problem and it is impossible that there is no responsibility on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7289	Thank you very much. 67 Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7290	I want to tell my esteemed colleague Hanka Vajzović that the problem is with what's attached. As something is attached along the way to a memo that we are all, of course, agreeable, not all but all 25 agreeable, so something is attached. That thing that's attached is a problem. It's not a problem that's not attached. So what's signed is the legitimate position of 25 people in this House and it's undeniable, we do not dispute. But it's attached to it, it says the House of Representatives there. So what's attached today is the problem and we're discussing it. For the future decisions of this House, we must trust each other, that there are no attached things. It means nothing goes up except what's been brought here today at Parliament. Because please, I'm reading, say, the Sector for International Relations. They say this - The International Relations Sector and the Parliamentary Assembly Protocol is a parliamentary service, and according to the current acts in force, it is an obligation to do all the jobs that are to be issued to them in this regard. The sector for international relations is the service of Parliament, not parliamentarians individually, which of course does not dispute that it will meet and parliamentarians and help all that is in line with Parliament's acts. Furthermore, we have here a memo from the Secretary of the Joint Service asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to send a letter to those addresses immediately by diplomatic means. It's not like the Secretary of the Joint Service didn't know it wasn't brought to Parliament. But if he didn't know, it would be good for him to tell us that it is possible for the Secretary of the Joint Services not to know what was brought to Parliament. Be careful, he may not need to know, but it is very indicative that the College of Secretaries, for example, does not have that kind of communication with Parliament, or with Parliament's homes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7291	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7292	Thank you. I just need to clarify what my colleague, Prodanović, looked back on that 60%. In fact, I wanted to say by saying that the joint service or the service, at the request of some 25 people who make up 60%, come on, please, fax it, send it or what, it didn't go through the protocol officially, or in any other way, it's normal that they listened and they did it. I want to say that I would not turn any blame, if there is any guilt here at all, I do not feel guilty at all, but this whole debate is going in that direction again if we are going to look at the administration of error and guilt, whether we ourselves feel guilty here, whether we are going to blame our colleague Denis Bećirović for bringing him down, and forget that he did not go through here, in other places, either was the resolution on genocide that was just launched by his colleague Denis Bećirović. Now it's all come down to him that he's guilty, so I don't know what he's going to do, anyway I'm talking about the administration that is a service to this Parliament, and I still don't think they're to blame in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7293	Thank you very much. Discussion, discussion, what is it now, replica, Mr. Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7294	There's no need for me to plow, I think we understand each other. Don't talk about percentages, don't talk about numbers. I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH. So, please, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Constitution of BiH. And don't tell me that there's someone technically responsible and there's no political degree of responsibility. So here, all those who have built the Constitution, or proposed the Constitution of BiH, know what we are. Don't think it would be any different if we didn't know what might happen. But I'm saying, let's just... you've been thanking yourself, let's say you're talking about the Resolution here. You know what, now I'm going to tell you openly, the countries we thanked for the resolution, unfortunately the revolution within Bosnia and Herzegovina on the disagreement contributes to the destabilising of this country. They contribute to the destabilising of this country as much as they say it is a civil question. For what? Well, because we're still building a degree of mistrust. And let me tell you something, these countries have adopted some other resolutions that could never be passed in this country and are also a much bigger and bigger civilization issue. Here in this House of Representatives, they couldn't get through. I said it, I don't want to pummel. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But come on, something we are not agreed on to see what we can do more than that, but the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been abused here, the BiH Constitution has been violated and the Rules of Procedure on the BiH House of Representatives has been violated. So there's no dilemma. What you wrote, I don't want to challenge you at all. The right to free opinion is everyone, but this is not the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, either under the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution of BiH. If we do that, we go to anarchy.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7295	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7296	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, I warmly welcome you all. In order to see more objectively the context in which the letter came to Mr. Ban Ki-mun and which I signed knowingly, no one deceived me, I knew what it meant, which means that I am expressing my position and what I wanted as an MP to support and share with the whole world, and also with Mr. Ban Ki-mun who may not have read it, but that's his problem. And what did I sign? "Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Your Excellency, it has been 20 years since the genocide of Bosniaks in Srebrenica and this 11 July, many victims will find their final peace at the Potocari Memorial Centre, and families, relatives, friends and large numbers of well-intentioned people will honor the victims of the most recent history of the world." I signed this knowingly and Mr Bećirović could not deceive me. But I also signed: "Let us know that 25 MPs of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives from all constituent nations and others have undoubtedly given support to the UK and Northern Ireland's United Kingdom Initiative for the adoption of the Resolution on the genocide of Bosniaks in Srebrenica." We have further signed: “We are confident that the righteous world taught by the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but also committed to building a fairer and better future for all citizens of the world, will recognize and accept the values that humanity needs to make much more human and righteous. We wish you our Excellency and this opportunity to express 69 of our sincerest respect and to give you the conclusions it supports and signed by most of the Members of this House." As this accompanying letter shows, it does not appear anywhere that these are the official conclusions of the House of Representatives, but Mr Ban Ki-mun is aware that it is the position of only 25 MPs of this House of Representatives and no one else. Nowhere has it been stated that the House of Representatives has adopted these conclusions, but they are only as an expression of our views and what we have signed. There is no question of deliberate abuse, there is no word here about the intention of causing any tension, but simply about showing that attitude to us, our attitude that we felt before the 20th anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the genocide over Bosniaks in Srebrenica. That's what we felt, and we wanted to share it with the whole world and with Mr. Ban Ki-mun in this way as MPs representing part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who gave us trust, who gave me confidence and who asked me to get to know the whole world with those attitudes that they shared with me, and nothing more. We do not need to raise tensions here, we should objectively observe the situation and try to look at all the circumstances and the overall text here, and it is clearly presented here that it is only 25 MPs and they are nominally numbered and gave their signatures without any intention of further tightening the situation and without any intention to get ahead in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we can say, interrupt this positive impulse that is going on, that we feel and that we need to build on. And I think it is an obligation for all of us to, here and after marking the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica disaster, recognize the priorities, act together and work in the light of that statement that we have signed by all the representatives of all political parties, which is that we will build a European path to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we will ensure our citizens a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7297	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7298	I volunteered on purpose now for the replica because I don't have a lot of replicas, I'm afraid I don't need a replica later so I can be in a much worse situation, and now I don't have any more, so I'm calm until the end of this debate. So, all this stuff that my colleague jasmin Emrić said except for one thing, I sign. So that's his right, people expressed their position, that attitude is undeniable, we didn't share it together, if we had, then we would have written the House of Representatives, since we didn't share it together, so that's the attitude of 25 people. And nothing would be disputed if instead of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives had shown respect and understanding, etc., that we were standing, either 25 of us, or we were signed down there, or signed up, we were showing, so we were told what we were showing, and in the second, we were showing five of the six positions in which we were showing what we were showing, and unfortunately we couldn't provide through the functioning of the House of Representatives' institution. We would have no right to discuss this in this way today. I am not interested in anything but the abuse of this – this House of Representatives shows etc. That's what bothers me, which I want to make decisions with you tomorrow. Many difficult decisions await us in the next three years if we are to seriously go to the EU. And I have to trust, if anything at least in those who are with us in the majority, full trust that someone will not do something like this again. And that is why 70 is personal to me, so it is important that this debate is the result of the protection of this Parliament. In what way and how, I can't decide even the proposer of this point, that's what we all decide here. But this Parliament must be protected from these things. That's what people talk about all the time, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7299	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7300	Mr. Chairman. This is a common practice of speaking to someone in this way. So, that's what individual members of the Bureau did, that's what the members of the College did, especially in the past terms, because sometimes the chairman of the committee, here in... puts their views on it. We often spend our precious time here in Parliament and spoil the atmosphere that is important to us so that we can deal with the real problems we have in the country. I think that today everyone here who's been discussing, when they look at that language formula he used, can say that he was right, but about this discussion today and this part of the agenda, I think it's correct to say a few facts. One is that what has been done by a group of MPs, 25 people, two, is that this is not the decision of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. So these are facts, and we don't have to cheat on each other here when we know what's really true. The third thing, I don't think that officials here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should now blame them and accuse them, especially not to sanction these people, because you can imagine how any of us would feel if he had asked an officer, who has an obligation to respond to the request of certain MPs to do some technical part of the job, to let him know that the official doesn't. But we all need this to serve as, as I would say, a reminder. We need to regain trust here. And here is the right colleague who discussed it before me, Novaković, so especially within the ruling majority. We must find a way that before any of us are involved in any of these initiatives, we will make some kind of mutual agreement so that this does not create problems in the functioning of the ruling majority and about the possibility of running the country. Because we, either together, will do something positive in this country or we will all have damage together and we will not, after a certain period, all, primarily as a parliamentary, this ruling majority, be condemned by people and punished by citizens in the next elections. So, I repeat, the most important thing for us is this inner trust, we need to realize today these three things that I mentioned earlier, and I think we really need to turn to these important issues of life. And here, I end up using the opportunity to thank my fellow SNSD colleagues who honored us with our presence at this agenda point. In particular, he was, as they say, positive and inspired Lazar Prodanović. And I'm glad these people are here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7301	Thank you very much. Mr. Staša Košarac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7302	Thank you, Chairman. 71 I think we are deeply aware of the situation of the House of Representatives. It is visible from the findings and presentations of many colleagues, someone more..., someone less, but what is quite clear that the House of Representatives was abused, and what is additionally problematic is that it was done on the international scene. Not at all naive things happen during a very short period of time. We must be aware of the fact that here, first of all in Parliament, there was a motion for a resolution on Srebrenica that did not receive support. We have a situation where a letter of gratitude was written to the Parliament of Canada within a very short period of time, we have a situation where the letter was written to Ban Ki-mun, also in a shorter period of time and of course at the end, unfortunately, we had what we had when it came to the assassination of President Vučić. Apparently, the actor of many of these initiatives was one MP, whose legitimate position is to express his political views, as I believe you had the legitimate right to state your position on a particular issue and you will never, in any way, be criticised when you state your legitimate political position but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and all other documents, which should produce trust here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems to me that a series of these activities have not produced trust, on the contrary, and I think it's bad. On the other hand, I have the right to state my political position, which is, and to share that dilemma with all of us here, whether Parliament, or the House of Representatives, has the capacity to determine today that there is political responsibility. Is that what we got? Either we switch it to some administrative responsibilities, some disciplinary responsibilities, or I don't know what, to someone who pressed "start" on college, etc., etc. I think the role of Parliament is to establish political responsibility. I also think that in this way nothing good was produced for Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the way this document went to the Security Council, on the contrary, an increased dose of mistrust, a fully increased dose of mistrust. I think we need to be aware of that if we want to understand each other, that we can also act civilizedly and look for solutions that are optimal for everyone, but, of course, again in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and all other acts that are an additional mechanism for the production of trust and good relations in this country. Well, I must say that Mr Bećirović said a very good thing when discussing the third item of the agenda, which is that no one was naive who signed it and that the MPs who signed it are aware of what they were signing. Well, that's exactly what our reaction is, and that's why we're in the session today, because we're not naive, because we recognize what's right for this kind of document. Mr. Chairman, you're not the chairman of the floor owners or the Bosniak club, you can't happen to get out of the House of Representatives like this. You may be angry, you may disagree, but it's highly unacceptable and I want to address it to you. I'm not sure if there's any complete readiness in most of the government to support it, perhaps part of the exit strategy of the ruling structures to make it someone from the opposition guilty, and let there be a dactylographer or I don't know who. I think you're politically responsible for what comes out of the House of Representatives, you chair, you chair. With that in mind, I would like to suggest, on behalf of the SNSD Parliament Club, three conclusions, which is: 1. The House of Representatives considers that by sending a letter, 25 MPs, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-mun is aware... Article 4 paragraph 3 d) of the Constitution of BiH as well as members of 85 and 153. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 2. The House of Representatives believes that dom Speaker Šefik Džaferović, in this capacity, but also as a signator of the disputed letter, bears political responsibility for violating the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which is why he cannot chair the House and should be removed from that position. 72 3. The House of Representatives calls on the competent authorities to establish the existence of any criminal liability for the apparent abuse of the position and memo of the House of Representatives, and supports the establishment of any other responsibility for sending this letter to UN Secretary-General Ban ki.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7303	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7304	I'm taking the opportunity to... to provide professional service this and, of course, that moment...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7305	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7306	When it is declared to be declared and...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7307	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7308	I'm a man who never lets me talk about side things, I always try to get back to the point. The essence of this topic, these discussions are neither letters nor memorandas, nor resolutions, nor signatures, is that 20 years after Dejton, 20 years after the Srebrenica genocide, after the International Court of Justice's verdict, so the highest legal authority on the planet, we still have the denial and denial of genocide. And that's the point. If we were all prepared here to accept the UN court's ruling, and we are all MPs of a state that is a full member of the UN, there would be no letter or today's debate. And that's the point. Everything else is side stories some try to turn on without us forgetting the point here. The real question here is whether we are prepared as members of the UN Member State to respect the UN court's decision. What RS lawmakers are discussing like this, I must say very persistently and disciplinedly, that is not bad. You see, on the other hand, only a few of them answer the word, most of them keep their mouths shut for years, and you've come in a position to make a decision that you can carry out the secessions in 2017 and to tear down the constitutional order. And if he had any luck today, we'd be discussing it and this wouldn't even be on the agenda. But there you go, there you go, there you go, there you go. As far as I'm concerned, someone tried to defend me, dear colleague Hanko, there's no need for that, so I'm proud of every point in this letter. I'm your initiator, your organizer, your signature letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7309	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7310	Here, my time is up and I wanted to say more. Therefore, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7311	Not now, when there's more time, then you will. 73 Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7312	Dear colleagues. Of course, I keep my mouth shut because I don't want to say a word and I'm trying to find out what to say. We've had fun here all day long, completely peripheral and... things, and what life means is we skip and step on us. And in this country, it's getting better, it's growing income, it's getting more and more employees, there's less and less talk about what was '92-95, everything is, everything is, everything is, and eventually the citizens are going to get up and get all of us, because it's everywhere in the world when they get not to their throats but to their lips. Now he's starting to get in his mouth to drown. As far as I'm concerned, yes, I signed it as a man, as a citizen of this country and as a citizen of the country who voted when the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was formed and I guaranteed by my signature that it would accept all its decisions. As did those states that were signed on what's called... a peace treaty, an agreement, translate whatever you want. And I signed as a man who advocates that everything that has been done in these areas from the aspect of genocide, crime, any infliction of pain on people will be condemned. And I won't stop there, I'll always support it. And since this has not been delivered as a decision by the Parliamentary Assembly, but as an opinion, a position, call it what you will, a group of 25 MPs I see no reason why we are discussing so much here. What if now 10 MPs from the last bench, except for Mr Novaković, who are in opposition, send to the European Parliament that everything they are doing in this Parliament is stressed, not adopted, are not allowed to have their agenda points, no amendment can pass them, no attitude can be adopted, and here they should serve only as plants, to speak after the microphone here and then in the procedure of raising their hands, and we are looking for something, as we have some rights, because this is called the House of Representatives, this is not called the House of Peoples in which the authorities of the House of Nations are defined. And here I feel like an MP for all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our biggest mistake here is that we make it from the top of the state, which is from the presidency, people when they meet are still presidents of political options, not members of the BiH presidency. And then it all goes down and goes pyramidally to the bottom. So then Izetbegović is president, who? The Bošnjak. Čović, who? The Hrvat. Ivanic, who? It's a Srbin. Isn't that the BiH presidency? The House of Representatives, who, is everyone in this country or everyone to drag to their side? I will always support something called the right to a position, the right to an opinion, the right to and to express myself, and I will never succumb to any kind of pressure, blackmail or anything. I haven't learned that, and I'll never do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7314	I thank the chairman. As Mr Backović said, I don't know how many people have been employed lately, but I do know if this Parliament continues to camp like the tavors of these previous few sessions, and mostly the tavors, because here are some initiatives of a respected colleague, Bećirović, who he knows in advance, will not pass, I'm afraid that they will all end up as SDP. Of the biggest 74 club MPs to fall to a party that barely crosses the censorship. But well, he's doing his opposition job well, it's his to throw away the bone and then we're on one side and on the other, gnawing around that bone, playing who's a bigger patriot, who protects the Bošnjak more, who protects Srbin and Republika Srpska, because there's nothing different. The SDP has been in power for four years and what we have. I'm surprised that we didn't have an initiative here by Mr Bećirović to form an investigative committee that will determine how much Miodrag Škrbić and SDP took on the purchase of ID cards, you know who Miodrag Škrbić is, and that's the SDP's chief financier, how much they took, the one who got 104 million tenders for the purchase of personal, not tender, there was no tender, to get a contract without tender, for the purchase of personal documents. As far as it is from the budget and how damaged both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak are. And why, say, Škrbić we get driver's licenses for four stamps and IDs for 12? They say the chip, by 16, says the chip is worth 12 marks. I don't believe we have a chip in our ID. Let's do it, let's see, let's say, we're conducting an investigation, here you don't have here in the Federal Parliament, how many inches of asphalt, what SIPA is doing, stolen. That's how he fights for Bosnia and Herzegovina by fighting crime, by opening jobs. This kind of thing that's done won't open a single job. I am sorry that Honorable colleague Ahmetović is not here because he would tell you a lot about this oath about Srebrenica. Here, I'm asking you, how much of the Federation Government's resources did she invest in Srebrenica during the SDP, how many jobs were opened in Srebrenica? You haven't opened a single job. And it's a great honor for Commissioner Ćamil Duraković to fight himself up there for that people to stay. Because of these things in this country no one wants to live anymore, because of these things young people and Srbin flee from this country, both Hrvat and Bošnjak. And these things destroy the future of this country. Since you have, dear counterpart Bećirović, a lot of energy to send here initiatives that pass thanks to this because your colleagues from the SNSD were not there, and then in the Council of Ministers are suffering and writing some laws that will come to us here and fall again, imagine this is amazing and energy, and time and resources spent, without any connection thrown into the water, I urge you to direct that energy into some constructive things, something that we can agree on here and what will bring improvement to all citizens, which will also bring to Dita in Tuzla. Here, their problem I've never heard you do. Why aren't you on the team? What the citizens think about SDP policy and the policy that you have promoted and the previous four years have said in the elections. You've reduced your personal vote by 150%. Well, I guess that should be a clear message to you citizens that you need to make a little political turn, because you're going down, you're not going up. Examine your politics a little bit, put down a little ball. Not so many negative initiatives, give us something positive, constructive, something that will bring stability to relations in this country, which will bring us jobs here, which will create some perspective in this country, not some barren story. Neither can you end the Republic of Serbia nor can you change anything, but we can bring down the little trust that exists in this country together. Come on, be yourself once, you're too young a man for so much of the negative energy you carry inside you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7315	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7316	I have to say, when I listen to the honourable messenger Pandurević, and I know here that I'm an opposition MP, it looks like he's here, in this bench sitting some head of state who's making everything alive, others listening to him. What you give me so much power, and I don't have it, is now a very special question. If you want to hurt me, it's not a very wise thesis. 75 When you talk about economics, well, here we had at the previous session, I suggested that we pass the Diaspora Act, for purely economic reasons. And you refused, you won't. So don't mention the thesis of the economy. The third thing, unlike some others, I don't buy these accusations at all, labels, I don't have any problem with you writing columns, accusing you of making up, just keep on doing it. I'm neither the first nor the last in 25 years to be exposed to such labels. Here Izetbegović Alija was also a dangerous Islamist and the first SDP president, Duraković, a dangerous fundamentalist, Jovan Divjak is a traitor, Ganić is a criminal. Now I could pick up all day how many people got the label. I can only tell the poor one who buys that story. So, feel free to say it, but one thing... I didn't even make an excuse for the SDS, nor will I ever justify myself to the SDS. And you know why I'll never justify myself to the SDS. If you need to have some sanctions because you're standing up for the state, I'm ready for it. I am eager to feel them all, and by the way, and with that end, I am not ready to remain silent when I see my state of Bosnia and Herzegovina be broken. I may not even be in politics, thank Bog, unlike some others, I have my own job and no politics, but I will never be silent.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7317	Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Come on, please, let's get this over with... we need to finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7318	Bog forbid that we wish you to justify yourselves to us, Mr. Bećirović, I know that you are justifying Milorad Dodik, the time we launched the initiative for your shift, and when you went to Laktasha, Mr. Košarac seemed to be a witness to how you justified yourself in that way and adjudicated Milorad Dodik. Enough, you don't have to to us, enough... And if you're important, so it doesn't matter if you're important in my eyes... when we, it seems to me that in 2012, the time of your vacation, you made a statement, I was on vacation, in the morning at half 10 on the beach journalists call, say – Bećirović said that, I say – well, we'll start an initiative for his shift. So that's it. Afterwards, Mr. Bećirović makes a statement -- a request for my shift came from Belgrade, the projectors of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in Belgrade, those from Republika Srpska who do so are doing everything on Belgrade's orders. You said Mr. Bećirović you were important. And of course, there's a comparison, with Hamdia Pozderac... compared.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7319	Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7320	Well, I'll do it very briefly. Uh, Mr. Bećirović, you see when you say my country, I want to say my country, and when we do... that this is our country, then maybe it will be something of it. And as long as you take the right to address in the name of the state the addresses you address and do what you do, be sure that we will find it difficult for this country as it is... That state that primarily operates on the basis of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear it from the chairman.]] Well, you have violated the Constitution, the Dayton Agreement and the regulations under which this Parliament works. That's the problem. And now you're saying you didn't do it. So 76 after your discussions today here in the Parliamentary Assembly we no longer need to form groups of friendships with other countries, we will have to form a group of friendships for relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that is the impression we have left to the public. And I suggest we stop forming a group of friendships with other countries and immediately join the formation of a group of friendships here in Bosnia and Herzegovina because we need it most after what you've done. And best without you and your political party, and best not to be involved. But here, because I'm a Democrats, I think you should be involved, too, and that you're publicly speaking everything that... if we didn't get as far as possible, better solutions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course. Thank you, colleague Ban Ki-mun. Therefore, this has really exceeded every measure when it comes to you and when it comes to the procedure to which this Parliamentary Assembly should respond. I am fully convinced that there is sufficient reason here, that there is sufficient reason and that there is enough power of the Parliamentary Assembly to allow, first of all, the usurped Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and all that is usurped in the way that it has been done, so I ask you, first of all, to enable Bosnia and Herzegovina to function. If it works this way, we'll get into a difficult situation. We're getting into a harder and harder situation. That is why I call on colleagues, and I call on other colleagues, those with whom there is, above all, the need to, in the way that it is a self-proposer, Mr Mladen Bosić, suggested, by selecting words in a way to say – let us return, first of all, to those jobs that are our priority and to do things in the way that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina have prescribed.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7322	Thank you very much. We still have Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Mr. Bećirović, this is a mistake if so, you've had a discussion, so turn yourself off nicely so there won't be any confusion. Here you go, Mrs. Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7323	Thank you very much. Here, I have a real need to say two, three sentences, and inspired by what the esteemed representative of Košarac said, if I have written it correctly - we are not naive that we do not know what is behind this document. I, first of all, don't think there's any document, but here, if it's so understood, I now have the need to say that still, of course, without intending to justify myself to anyone, as we, in order to say the administrative style of them, were signed down there, in fact we didn't initiate resolutions in the white world, nor even lobbyed to adopt them anywhere, but honestly after that, and unfortunately in this House we didn't vote on genocide, we did not, unlike many others, have had, I understood and signed these conclusions, we had, and here is the need and in accordance with what counterpart Emrić was saying, just as he said, the need to thank at least those who had the International Court ruling in The Hague. I think it was, and we went a lot out of it. Here, and enough... 77
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7324	Thank you very much. We still have the vice president, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, and then we'll conclude the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7325	Thank you very much. Here, I tried patiently and carefully to listen and in some way look where we are right now, it seems to me that we're going to be going to 5:00 a.m., we're on the second agenda. I apologize first of all, thinking about those points we're discussing, I apologize to all those in the name we're sitting here today. And now I'm going to look very briefly at what's topic. You see how the debate is somehow developing here as if there were two sides, and everyone is saying something in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, forgetting that it is the state of three peoples and citizens who live in it. And why did I answer? Simply so they don't think there's anyone else in this Bosnia and Herzegovina who is in every way perceived as a few people who have no real rights or responsibilities. I'm saying this for a reason why here some people are trying to defend unprotected. Today we have a situation to discuss conclusions, all of us here have them, in which it clearly writes – predstavnički or House of Representatives shows respect, etc., calls for all members, etc. So, we're talking about the fact that every MP, envoy, has his own initiative, and I'm not surprised that it was signed by a group on behalf of a group or an individual, even if it were lobbying, so it points to someone, but it kind of offends me at this point why maybe someone didn't offer it to me if we wanted to and advocate for the true Bosnia and Herzegovina that she's the only one that's possible. So I would like to say that in this case there are significant violations of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and I think that this House of Representatives should be said today, because we have established the fact through both discussions and through discussions, that these are not the positions of the House of Representatives. We should send a letter stating that these are not the positions of the House of Representatives and inform the Secretary General. Besides, let's not run away from responsibility, it's the best way to stop everything that we're talking about here today. I don't want to say in advance who's responsible, but I think this situation needs to determine responsibility. I was also in the interview with my colleague, who led the Commission in which it was voted, and she pointed out that the Committee said that it was not good that we do not have an absolute representative from one people in the Committee, or a representative, and that this is not a good way, regardless of what the Rules of Procedure orders us to respect it, both in quorums and in decision making. And so the abstention on that matter was, she pointed out, and nevertheless it was voted on by the Committee as voted and means the abuse of business powers had been used. I guess we've brought the Rules of Procedure, our internal rules, that they're respected. And so my proposal here will be that we really as the House of Representatives, in addition to these conclusions, and some who are here should, if our interest is the same to all of us, and I think that it should be and that it should primarily be in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, and I welcome all those whom both intention and honest attitude were in that direction, to support the unique conclusions in this regard and to say that we are asking for responsibility from those who have abused in any way. It's certainly a good way and a good way for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and certainly something that guarantees it something 78 which is prosperity, and not in this way racing, saying, I don't know, this, that, so some other picture and some messages are being sent. Therefore, here again I welcome you and I call all of us to be unique about this position in the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the sense that this is not a letter from the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, and in that sense we call on the College of the Secretariat to carry out the procedure and determine the possible responsibility of civil servants, regardless of who this is, because first of all, I would say, the interest of all of us, and of course Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7326	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the point of the five agenda, that's Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, with correction of the technical error in the Bill's Proposal (first reading) Therefore, the proposal for a law was delivered in the procedure on 29/05/2015 and in 01/06/2015 corrections were made in the text of the Law. The Constitutional Foundation Committee delivered its opinion on 30.06.2015. At the request of the Commission responsible for finance and the budget of the House College, at the 15th session of 30.06, it approved an extension of the time limit for the delivery of opinions on the principles of the draft law by 30 days. The Commission submitted its opinion on 21.07.2015. The Commission accepted the principles of the bill proposal and proposed to Dom the adoption of the following conclusion: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to draft and deliver a comprehensive system proposal for a legal solution that regulates the issue of salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, making sure that the proposed solutions are incorporated into laws governing these areas – the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the Law on Labour in BiH institutions and the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7328	Thank you. I, of course, applied, uh, although I should be invited as a proposing to explain the bill, and above all, since, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have limited the debate overall, I am interested in how much time do I have as a promoter now? 79
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7329	Just keep discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7330	Can I tell you how to time yourself, you noticed...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7331	You have business time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7332	15 minutes, thank you. This was supposed to be the third item of the agenda, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. It is a formal name, and the very simple essence of this Law is to abolish fees for commission work during regular working hours for all employees of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, employees of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina within the meaning of Article 2 d) of that Law, as well as elected and appointed officials, civil servants, etc. It is a practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina to pay commission fees even though these commissions are sitting and doing their work during regular working hours and the purpose and purpose of this law is to finally abolish it. And it is not only necessary to do this for the sake of the savings provided for by the Audit Office, amounting to about 3 to 6 million marks, but also because it is completely illogical that the same level of government, and in most cases the same institution, pay the same person a fee for work, two fees or more for work that takes place during the same working hours. I was at one of the previous sessions when, when the ruling majority here formed committees, pointed out that we have one paradoxical situation, that the ruling majority fills this ad hoc commission and temporary commission, of course, representatives of their parties and then we have one truly paradoxical situation for the person to organise the commission, the work of the committee during the meeting of the House of Representatives, and then takes the salary for being an MP, and paused for having come to the session, and then takes the fee for working in that ad hoc, or temporary commission, because I don't know, this work 20 minutes, come out, as I have noticed now, most MPs came out when this item of the agenda came to order. I mean, we have a really interesting situation, and I hope media representatives see this, when it comes to incendiary nationalist issues, this hall was full. I'm at the beginning of my discussion, and now it's almost empty, here I think, here's the secretary to count if we have a quorum. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, of course it's not about you. It's about those who went out, and I don't have a quorum, is it the secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7334	Discussion, discussion, don't discuss each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7335	The secretary tells me there's no... 80
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7336	Please, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7337	We've got a quorum, looks like 23. I'm going back to what I said at the beginning, this was supposed to be the third item of the agenda, this was supposed to be at the last session of the House of Representatives, but the ruling majority obviously care to arrive on the logs tonight just a report on so-called. the protection of national interests. The protectors, of course, talk about ethnic issues, are here as the story of ethnic topics begins, as soon as the story of the protection of the national interests of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or their economic interests 21 MPs leave the hall, so they remain 23, according to what the secretary has now told us. Now, that's the ruling majority. And we saw how everyone got up right away and got out as soon as the story of ethnic incendiary topics ended. Now, this is the ruling majority in action, the ruling majority in action, 21 MPs out when the debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7338	Shall we talk about the law, Mr. Arnaut? Let's talk about the law, you're the introduction, the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7339	Mr. Džaferović, I would really like to ask you not to interrupt me, because this is also an essential story. There was talk about the Rules of Procedure earlier, please stick to the Rules of Procedure, give me 15 minutes of discussion without interruption. Please, don't constantly violate the Rules of Procedure to look at the work. What Mrs Pandurević just said about the need to solve economic problems will also fall into the water at this point, because if she returns, she will find at least five excuses why no fees for commission work during working hours should be lifted. Well, none of those excuses make any sense. This bill gave the Constitutional Commission a positive opinion, received a positive opinion from the Commission responsible for finance and budget, received a positive opinion from the Directorate for European Integration of BiH and received a positive opinion from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's legislative and legal sector. The highest officials, i.e. the managers of the Audit Office, supported this Law in media statements, and pointed out that this bill fully implements what the audit findings are, this, from the specific report of the Office for the Review of the BiH institutions on impact audit under the heading "The Commission's work of the BiH Institution". And in this report, from May 2013, the old 10th said – that the following conditions should be met in order to pay commission fees, and then set out the conditions. And one of these conditions is that work on the commission is done outside of regular working hours. What we heard from those who voted against this Bill on the Finance and Budget Commission yesterday, among other things, is that this issue should be resolved in a system-wide way, etc., and we have even received the opinion of the Council of Ministers adopted on a proposal from the finance minister that says so. However, in that same opinion, unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance said that, and this is what Mr Bevanda told us yesterday during one of the answers to the parliamentary question, this, that the Ministry of Finance adopted the Bill of Payments and Compensation in BiH institutions and delivered it to the Council of Ministers for adoption. However, Mr Bevanda failed to say this morning what was written here in their opinion, which is that they withdrew the proposal because they consider it to be the subject of considering and deciding the new Council of Ministers' call, and then also wrote that the current Ministry of Finance and Treasury analyses the content of the Pay Policy and 81 fees in BiH institutions for the period 2015-2018. Be careful, they are only now, after they delivered it and withdrew it, the Ministry of Finance of this ruling majority is now just analysing the content of the Pay Policy and the compensation in BiH institutions for the period 2015-2018, and we are at the half of 2015, and they are only now analysing it, this Politika. And then someone wonders why opposition parties keep their pre-election promises, why do they refer to parliamentary procedures to legislation that will reduce public spending in this country? So, among other things, because the Council of Ministers is not doing its job, among other things, that the Council of Ministers headed by the Council of Ministers, and when it comes to the Minister of Finance, is still analysing the content of the Policy of Payments and Compensation for the period 2015-2018, and we are, as I said, half-2015. So there's absolutely no excuse for the Council of Ministers' unhappiness. The SBB is that you all remember was also the author of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Salary and Refunds, specifically the abolition of white bread. This House of Representatives adopted this, and we will have a debate later on, of course, after tonight's journals that will deal with, forced, uh, your delay will deal with these flammable issues, but we will also discuss why the House of People has not yet considered this proposal adopted at the House of Representatives on the abolition of white bread. But when it comes to white bread, and when it comes to this proposal, there are really significant savings. And there's no reason why this proposal should not be adopted and there's no reason to wait for the Council of Ministers to come forward with a proposal so-called. All-inclusive changes when we see that they delay it themselves. In February, we had arguments that not some here should adopt the abolition of white bread, but that we should go to comprehensive fundamental changes. It was then concluded that the Council of Ministers was tasked with delivering these comprehensive fundamental changes within 30 days. Of course, the Council of Ministers never did that. So when this proposal for a law was held in the previous session of the Finance and Budget Commission, then it was concluded that the Council of Ministers was given 30 more days to deliver these comprehensive amendments and complement the Law on Salaries and Refunds. So when the Council of Ministers did not do so within the prescribed time limit, at yesterday's session of the Finance Commission and the budget was adopted a new conclusion that the Council of Ministers is now going to do so by September 30th. Ma, I think the Council of Ministers takes itself unseriously if it allows this Parliament, means that from the session to the session it indicates that they do not respect the deadlines for answering parliamentary questions, let alone the bill. And then we really have nothing left but to do this where we can, to lift the white bread, to abolish commission fees during regular working hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7340	Look, Mr. Arnaut, I apologize for interrupting, but of course you have the right to use all 15 minutes. But I just want to tell you that you don't tell people who don't understand what you're saying, who don't see what you're actually doing, and you go ahead, you paint yourself that way. I have a need to tell you this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because you step away from the topic in your discussion very often. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7341	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to warn you again about a member of the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to ask that it be written, because I think it's again an insult to the MPs, this is the second, third time that you're getting into it, and if you don't understand something then it's really your problem, but I don't think it's right for you to speak on behalf of 20 and some of the other MPs who stayed here, because I think they all understand that very well. If you don't understand something, I can speak 82 more easily if it will help you. Uh, these kind of interventions of yours are also a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I really look forward to 9 August when there will be a change at the head of this House, uh, when I probably won't have a need for constant business interventions, because I hope the Rules of Procedure will be respected afterwards. But as for the discussions at the previous point that have touched the violations of the Rules of Procedure, you leave me no choice but to indicate that the continued violation of the Rules of Procedure leads to one...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7342	Mr. Arnaut, you have no right to have a discussion with me. I warned you in accordance with Article 77. Rules of Procedure to hold your discussion. And don't lecture me. Continue to hold on to the subject of discussion, please, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7343	Mr. Chairman, I'm aware that you don't like what I'm saying, I've been completely following this bill. You don't like me saying something that criticises the ruling majority. I'm really not able to continue this discussion any further since you've been interrupting me three times constantly with the goal of me stopping this discussion. I'll suspend this discussion now, that's your goal was, you've achieved it, I'm just waiting 9 August for someone who respects the Rules of Procedure to come to that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7344	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7345	Since you're talking about something that would be normal in every environment, Damir, which is normal, that what's at work is his effective work, because you can't be paid parallelly here and on these three chairs next to me. It's impossible to work, nor is there one that can parallelly do more jobs. I'm writing both with my left and right hand parallelly, in the face of circumstances, and I've given it to me, but I can't get paid for two texts but just one. And I fully support, and at the beginning of this term, if you remember, I asked that we be MPs, or MPs, or representatives, and that we have equal access to the work of something called working bodies, commissions, etc., and not that we have the Einsteins that it has, I once listed in 8, 9, 10 working bodies while someone is only in one working body, which is really absurd because this is a representative home, but it's usurping and showing power. An effective working day, an hour, lasts 8.5 hours by law, 8.5 hours, and if parliamentary bodies are held at that time, they cannot be paid. It is especially amazing that employees whose regular work is paid for any working body that is formed are simply amazing. I even think that if we were asked by a group of us to do things called judicial to cancel out, because if you have permanent employees within the Council of Ministers and in the framework of the Assembly, and they engage in working bodies, work in their work and work, and are still paid, it's amazing. Damir, it's a special story, of course I'm going to ask for it at the next session, here's to know the chairman, to list the official travels of our MPs. Every time I'm here, I'm not from Sarajevo, I want to see how much, where, who, who, that's my right, I have the right to know. So then you'll see what's being said about Mrs. Majkić's enormous incomes and so, there's a Majkićki or Majkić here yet, and we'll see exactly where we are, because they generalize us, because then they put us all in the same basket, which is not true, which is absolutely not true. You have to know what this is about. And I fully support your proposal and the political option BPS – the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party asked for it in the last term, but most of it does its own, you know, take the dysgin and sweet him to take as much as possible. There's the biggest corruption, they buy people through different forms, and then they're in their function and they work for them. They don't work for us, they don't work for Parliament and they don't work for citizens, they work in the function of political options, and as they say, they come down with their shoulders, they're pecking their ears and so on. Your law will be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7346	Thank you. I'd ask the MPs, we'll be working until seven, half-eight, which remains we'll continue tomorrow, so now, uh, to take a little bit of care. It is possible, therefore, to do all this together, uh, and to bring the session to an end in one reasonable time. Let's take a little care of the time we're using. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7347	Well, nothing, I'll ask, since here I'll appreciate what the chairman has said, I'll ask only the promoter to help me with my commitment, meaning vote, to define the working time of the elected, this, who are employed in the Parliamentary Assembly. It simply means that it defines my working time, here's a specific MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7348	Thank you very much. Mr. Predrag Kožul's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7349	Well, I volunteered that my colleague Arnaut wouldn't interpret my views from the Finance and Budget Committee, which he certainly tried, so I'm going to bring them out on this bill, and otherwise. So, on two occasions at the Committee, and otherwise we agreed that the intensity of this amendment and the addition of the Law is good and that this area needs to be redecorated, arranged, but systematically, systemically, in one quality way. This law, although short, is not well written, in my opinion, it will not actually fulfill its basic intensity, which is savings. In fact, he may move the work of different working bodies outside of working hours, and thus very logically only increase the Commission's material costs. It would probably lead to this kind of text of the law. The second problem of this very short Law is that the provision set out in Article 1 of this Act will be introduced in Article 2 of this Law on the basis of these very short and unclear provisions, which are all those working bodies, the Administrative and Supervisory Committee, here are constantly mentioned by the Commission, and in the text of the Law there are no commissions, working bodies, etc., etc. What the provision of Article 1 of this Act initiates is that 74, five administration bodies within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should adopt certain amendments and additions to their acts of a lower level of 84 levels. On the basis of the very vague provision of Article 1 and the amendments and additions will, of course, be very colorful, very different, different... this matter, then it will in any way be confusion rather than savings. The intensity of all of us, I think here and the positions and the opposition, respecting social, economic and all the other circumstances, that we need to introduce more order and more savings in this area, and that's not questionable. That is why it is the proposed conclusion from the last Committee on Finance and Budget, a similar conclusion, it seems to me, that the Committee of Sisters in the House of Peoples, is that again, regardless of the deadlines, on several occasions we went to the Council of Ministers, we went again and we will go again, the requirement that this area be regulated systematically, systemically and this topic which is clear as a day, clearly that there should be no compensation for working in working time if someone receives a salary and it should be regulated by the Law, and in one way that will be inherited to savings. So, civil servants and MPs can, in my opinion, possibly do some work for this guy, but they really don't need to be paid for this job in the workplace. I can, and it is desirable that quality people who work as civil servants are in the Management and Supervisory Committees, but it should be defined, and it must not only be the Management and Supervisory Committees who name the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the various other entities, and I know which institutions, because it is desirable that people who work here and who do their job well and who are quality, and I have come from my experience so far, really got the impression that the civil servants who work in this house are high-quality civil servants. And that matter should be defined in order for this work to be really, when someone else appoints them, enabled and paid them, clearly to the extent to which they should be. The goal is to achieve more order and you more savings. We can do this in just one systematic and systematic way, both in this Law and in the law of white bread, which is a lie. We know that this law will achieve its first financial effects in four years. And now we boast about how we have resolutely defined and solved it. And we really need to resolve this in a quality way and again and again and this Law, to bring such an amendment into line with some other laws, which, by the way, end the mandate, prevents us from doing a number of other jobs at a certain time. So, of course, if there is no white bread, allow the MPs, all of us, that tomorrow, when we stop being MPs and MPs, we can be equal with other citizens. It's one of the topics of white bread, of course. And I don't have the ambition to deal with the issue of systematic law in this story, but I had ambitions at the Committee, and now I say it again, the Council of Ministers, in which some of us still have trust, in charge, and we're in charge of it within deadlines, and we're going to do it again, to solve this matter systematically and systematically in order to achieve savings and order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7350	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7351	Well, I'd ask all my colleagues not to forget the fact that we've moved from point 4 to point 5 and that in their approach to this point 5, it's still a little bit more important to make sure that the proposer of this law's intention is to introduce order and to introduce certain savings, because we have to do so, we're expected to do so. Do not ask questions like some colleagues ask a question to define the time, the hours of MPs, or MPs, when each of us knows very well that this is impossible. That's not the point. If I could determine what will be paid, I would only pay those outside this institution, whether they were representatives or employees here in this institution, only those outside the institution who are hired to work on those commissions. In my opinion, no one could get any fee for working on commissions. But that doesn't mean that I should be mad at you if you think it differently and vote it differently. I think it takes a little more than 85 to look around, even if we think about it in a different way when the bill's proposal is a matter of no more perseverance, than with a little more reason and rationality and attitude towards this bill, which is exclusively a matter of showing to the public that we are ready to work together and share the fate of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and not to be, under quotes, grammistic and not to take wherever we are, but to really take care of all these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7352	Thank you. The word is Mr. Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm going to start with some replica of Mr Arnaut, in a way that he mentioned the parliamentary ruling majority, and here I want to say that the SDA is the ruling majority and it was at the Finance and Budget Committee, where he saw that the SDA MPs supported this legal solution in the first reading, with a certain explanation, this is what I want to say here right now. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Arnaut, you don't even know how to lobby for the law. So, you also start when you have a fine bill with a hypothetical view that this law will not be passed to you, and then you attack the MPs first and expect them to support your law. I suggest that in the first act of proposing a legal solution or anything you speak of a metric. If a conflict of attitudes arises during the debate, then you can get involved when you see that your law fails and that you attack MPs. So you're essentially a lobbyist for your law, you're an antilobist. And that's what I told you last time on the board, here I'm telling you right now, simply that if you apply this logic, maybe you'll have some result in the next period. Why is the SDA involved in accepting such a legal solution in the first reading? So just, uh, if the motionor's intensity was savings, here's to make that savings come true. That's one thing. And the other thing, which we really expected from the Council of Ministers, is that in this period of five months from the reference, here is not to repeat what I was saying today when I asked a parliamentary question, from the Council of Ministers' conclusion that in the procedure the amendments to the Law on Salaries and Restitutions in BiH institutions were delivered, and then all those other sublegal acts were not implemented. And here we are told today, by the finance minister, that it will be soon. But here, I've taken the liberty of consulting with the Ministry of Finance a little bit, and I've seen that, if this legal solution is adopted in the first reading, the amendment responds, maybe something that the Council of Ministers would suggest in the next period, when it comes to this topic. And what's the point, by us? If, if we are talking about saving, then we need to know that all the members of the commission and other bodies discussed in this legal solution are being paid from the Budget of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you cannot exclude from paying the staff elected or appointed officials, and forget other members of the committees outside this Parliament or the Council of Ministers. So, simply put, they are not employees of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state institutions to come to these commissions and pay them. Because in such a way, in my opinion, you are making a certain degree of discrimination against people who are not valorizing for the same work with compensation, and those who come outside the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in fact leaving in the process of payment. 86 I am opinions, and we are opinions in the SDA Club, that if this legal solution should be adopted in the amendment phase, in a way that all members of these working bodies simply do not have the opportunity to receive compensation for this work, whether appointed or elected officials or in those bodies come as outside these institutions. For example, which is why I'm talking about discrimination, we'll take the Fiscal Council. All those appointed and elected to the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Fiscal Council will not receive compensation, and all those who come from entities or propose themselves from cantons will not matter, they will receive a prize and already have ministers somewhere, or are in some more significant positions, so that they achieve, have a salary, a similar salary of elected officials in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here's what I'm gonna end up with...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7354	And there's time and so on, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7355	in a way that we... this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7356	Mr. Zaim Backović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7357	So, I said I'll support the law, and the replica is Mr. Sokolović, we know each other well, and I hope you're following, reading, etc., and I'm amazed when I saw that the members of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate average monthly incomes were 3,700 KM. ...are the jobs of Assistant Finance Minister in the Federation, Minister of Finance, and add it now to his salary. Also from Republika Srpska, also from here, 3,700 KM per month. That's what they pay in addition to their salaries, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he's the assistant minister who normally has to take care of it, and you're still paying him for that 3,700 a month, so I don't tell the others now because I took them all out, believe me, a huge number of these data, but that's what me and my colleague are going to do at one next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7358	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7359	Wrong, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7360	That's a good thing. Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7361	I really didn't understand Mr. Backović, was there a criticism of what I was talking about or is this support? Because I was saying that if we support this proposal 87 of the legal solution proposed by Mr. Arnaut, that's exactly what some will be left with, Mr. Backović, and if we even the criteria and say that none of the members of these working threads have the right to compensation, then they will also be left without that fee. There'll be an intervention in that direction when it comes to the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7362	Thank you very much. The discussion, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7363	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A good part of what I was about to say was already said by distinguished colleagues Sokolović and distinguished counterpart Kožul. The basic intensity won't come true, instead of four o'clock, we'll only have those sessions in five hours, so I don't see there can be savings. When we from the SDS opened this question and asked for answers on how many members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards were received, so we saw that some people from institutions have annual incomes of over 30,000 marks on behalf of compensation, then we asked the Council of Ministers to make a solution, because just so we don't have one bad solution that will bring us more damage than benefits. So, according to this solution, here I was free to meet some of the judges who are dealing with this and asking them – what if, for example, a member of the Fiscal Council of Ministers is being sued because he was brought into a discriminatory position in relation to a member of the Fiscal Council of Entity Governments. A man will get a court dispute and the state will have to pay him more interest. They also told me of that white bread which we adopted here, that because we had not changed the Law of Conflict of Interest, We had denied the people the right to work, and We had taken away that compensation from them, that they might grieve. And what do we get, where's the savings? I don't see any savings, we'll just pay the interest. That's what this is about. And that's why we didn't propose a legal solution at the time, but we asked the Council of Ministers to do it, just to avoid this sort of thing. And because we think the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions should be thoroughly amended. It needs to be changed in many parts. We have police officers, look at the colleagues' audit reports of the Police Body Coordination Directorate, the Police Staff Training Agency. No security minister has made his legal commitment since 2006 and three, if I recall, Mr. Tarik Sadović, Mr. Sadik Ahmetovići and Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, and the Council of Ministers have proposed a Police Supplement Regulation. And the police allowance is paid in an absolutely illegal manner. That's what the auditors noticed. And that's something we have to put into law. And the question of these severances, so it's wrong for some people, to call out to the MPs, because they're exposed to the public, you have at every turn in the institutions, assistant ministers, ministers. Well, Mr. Arnaut knows perfectly well that in the Foreign Office we have an assistant who took the severance payment and who remained VD assistant minister until the end of the year because the ADS allowed him. And we need to change that practice. But to change all this, we need to change the Law on Salaries and Refunds, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions and make a system solution, not to make any of these issues a partial solution, because for God's sake it will bring us, every time we talk about this law and pick up one cheap political point. Let's go, people, and I have therefore supported the Finance Commission and the budget proposal of Mr. Kožul. It is true that this Council of Ministers may have already sent it to us, but come on, let's give them 88 deadlines by the end of October, to send us a complete system solution, which we will arrange both wages and fees and finally arrange this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7364	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7365	The replica of Mrs. Pandurević and Mr. Novaković. I was hoping I didn't hear you well yesterday on the Finance and Budget Committee when you said you were consulting with the judges. It is amazing to me that a member of the legislative body, a representative of the legislative authority, consults a representative of the judicial authority on the issue or on issues on which a representative of the legislative authority should vote. Really inadmissible in democratic practice. If you needed legal advice, you should have addressed the Ministry of Justice, not the judicial authority and talked about it more, amazingly. And I find it even more shocking that there are judges in this country who are willing to give advice legally on hypothetical issues. We'll hear a lot of things in this parliamentary controversy. But here, let me give you some legal advice, next time consult the Justice Department. I was also right when I said at the beginning of the discussion that you would immediately find, even though you were... last point talking about the need to deal with economic issues, that you would find a million excuses here why this should not be adopted. And then there's Mr. Sokolović. I, by the ruling majority, consider the total majority that you have formed among other things, SDS, HDZ, SDA and DF. Now, if SDA and DF support this, but if SDS and HDZ vote against, as will be today, then this won't go away in the first reading. So the ruling majority didn't allow it to go away. So, by that I mean the ruling majority and you've formed it, it's not us. And finally, the answer to Mr. Novaković. He asked me to tell him exactly what the working time of the elected official or appointed official was? You see, it's not here, it's not my job.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7366	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7367	But here, let me finish. I'm just suggesting that he ask the secretary or secretary of his club who puts him in his work hours for his job and gets an answer to a matter of his working hours, because during that working time he gets paid every month. So, don't ask these questions, let the club secretary ask what's written in the showroom.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7368	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7369	I thank the chairman. 89 Here we can find out that the esteemed colleague Arnaut is a psychic and knows how we're going to vote. We haven't made up in the club yet. You see, dear fellow Arnaut, this is not about changes and wages, additions, amendments and additions to the Law on Salary and Rewards of Judges and Prosecutors. So there's no conflict of interest that they could give a negative opinion. People, my friends, we hang out privately, ask for professional help, expert opinion, what they think. Is that you don't like that opinion and you don't like it, it's yours, dear colleague Arnaut, your problem. But me, let's just say it's interesting that you didn't touch this law and those retirement benefits? Or why can pensioners be our assistant ministers? Come on, when you're holding moral lessons, answer those questions for me. I'm suggesting an answer. And as far as working hours are concerned, maybe, dear colleague Arnaut, your working hours are from the ones that are listed in the chess list, but my working hours are, I haven't had Saturdays and Sundays and weekends, since Christmas, and I've been working in the field. The job of an MP is to work in the field. And I believe that's what most of my colleagues do. Here, I've recently been on the subject of Mrs. Krišto and I have been complaining to each other about how much time it takes for MPs to work, if you want to work. Of course, there are those who won't work, so the terrain can't see their eyes. But many, I, in this House, guarantee you that many MPs, because they would not have so many votes that they had, work daily and 12-13 hours minimum.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7370	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7371	I'll try not to waste my time. So if this is the only way to end the commission and apply the Labour and Work Relations Act, then what it prescribes and does not abuse, then I am for this Law. So,... who you said gave you a positive opinion, did not... give a positive opinion,... did not actually show himself about it because he said that there was no European practice unique in this regard. So it wasn't positive, but I can't say it's negative. Was I a short chair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7372	Well, that was commendable, really. Mr. Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7373	I thank the chairman. I'll try to be as short as my colleague, so it'll be as fast and as expedient as it is. What I'm trying to say is that this law is necessary. And I don't agree with colleagues who say there's no savings and that we'll only change the hours of four. The savings are, therefore, in the very fact that up to three hours we work for a time and after three hours a second time. Until three o'clock, so one was paid, and three hours later the other. So there's savings, if nothing in time. On the other hand, an initiative for a law like this came from audit reports that found savings, so on this basis, between 3 and 6 million. So between 3 and 6 million. Of course, I agree that there are gaps in this, absolutely agree with you, but this is the first reading and 90 amendments in the second reading we can correct everything we've seen. Let's just say, these severances aren't really solved by this... and I totally agree. When it comes to the Council of Ministers, there's really nothing to comment on. I think we've given the same Council of Ministers three or four deadlines or four times, or the Minister of Finance or the Council of Ministers. And we never got in time. A colleague, Kožul, noted that it was a proposal by September of the month to give a deadline. I think that's the third deadline we give to the Council of Ministers. It's on one side. On the other hand, looking at the work so far and what the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance has been delivering to this Parliamentary Assembly, when I mean, first of all, the budget that could have been in, because they are the same, archaic, stereotypan, from the last period of time, three years consecutively, i.e. now this fourth year, even the same items, is the same, same thing, we had in May, that is, April of the month. When it comes to the draft budget document, we waited a year for it to be adopted a month ago. The Framework Budget document for this year was due to be on the finance ministry site on 01/07, but it will not be safe yet. So, I think this is a good thing, to put this law in the process and in the second reading, we'll all have the opportunity to give amendments to the existing law. Here, thank you. I think I was short.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7374	Thank you very much. Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7375	I thank the chairman. Very short. Just to make my point, given that as a member of the Budget and Finance Commission, I have also supported the principles of this Law, I also confirm this discussion and, of course, we expect that the Council of Ministers, as it was presented in these discussions, will do one systemic approach, and that we will remove all such and similar deviations when it comes to certain double incomes and increases that have no moral justification, especially if the legal solutions, which are now in force, are being misused by those who have made such legal solutions. Thank you very much. Once again support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7376	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7377	I thank the chairman. So the most important question here in this debate is savings. So I really don't want to bid numbers past those presented by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, which are savings from about 3 to 6 million marks. I suggest to everyone who has a problem with these numbers that they turn to the Audit Office and ask why they gave those assessments. In any case, it's not a negligible savings. The second thing, I seriously doubt that someone will move the commission's work, which will be held at 11:00, especially MPs, elected and appointed 91 officials. We see, as soon as the blue five panics, we end the debate as soon as we can, so I don't see much of a willingness here to work after five. But also what counterpart Isaković said is extremely important from an economic point of view. So, if you're doing what you're paying for during working hours, and that's the job of MPs, you're preparing initiatives, bill proposals, etc., although it seems that only the opposition is working in this assembly, then you're doing these commission jobs after hours. So it's, uh, totally justified savings from the aspect of hours, even if in some cases, they're going to be much rarer, there's no actual financial savings, but in these rare cases at least there's going to be work hours savings, when it comes to working hours. Mrs. Pandurević, I will really explain to you what this is about when it comes to consulting judges on concrete bill proposals. And I'm sure everyone or at least all the lawyers in this room will understand me. And that is, if a judge is invited when this one, if this bill is adopted, and if a judge, if a judge, who consulted you, finds an object of this particular case, if someone sues, and then the case comes before that judge, that judge will have an obligation to exclude himself from the case. And if after that, if he doesn't make an exception, if he finds out after that he consulted you before the law was even passed, then the whole process will be a trap, etc. And that is why there is a rule that MPs, representatives of the legislative authority do not consult with representatives of the judiciary, especially when you have the right to ask parliamentary questions to the BiH Ministry of Justice, and ultimately to consult with the minister and deputy, etc. And finally, the SBB has already proposed the removal of white bread, it's passed on to this House, we're proposing this now. We hope it passes on this House. If the Council of Ministers does not finally arrive with these comprehensive amendments, then we will propose another legal solution, including this issue of severance, etc. And so we keep our pre-election promises. But it is not truly understandable to criticise someone who has made certain pre-election promises for fulfilling them, especially when it is in the function of saving. And it's undeniable that the savings will come true. I apologize for taking so much time and speaking a little slower, that the chairman understands me.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7378	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Any more replicas, any discussions? Well, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on, point six, Ad. Six. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on ParliamentBećirović proposal to supplement the 14th session of the House's agenda, which reads: "The conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the initiative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to adopt the Resolution on genocide in Srebrenica" The House College did not reach agreement on Parliament's proposal to supplement the agenda, Denis Bećirović. The debate is closed, and we will plead later in the second round of voting. 92 Let's go to the point of seven agendas, Ad. Seven. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Nikola Špirić's proposal to supplement the 14th session of the House's agenda to the point of saying "A coherent reform agenda and action plan on the European path to Bosnia and Herzegovina"
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7382	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. As we all know, by reading this document of the BiH Framework Transport Policy for the period 2015-2030, we all see that we have been brought into a chat because of the failure to adopt such a document at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and... it is high time to adopt this document in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet its obligations, it has joined 93 with certain means, as well as access to the BiH Transport Strategy, as well as the Action Plan, related to the Framework Transport Policy, as well as to that strategy that we have yet to get. And in order not to be, is it, removed from access to these means, here's the time for us to adopt this, and I hope we all do it together today. But I would like to ask the Council of Ministers and all those concerned, when accessing the strategy, as well as the action plan, to have one comprehensive approach across Bosnia and Herzegovina, all its areas in all segments concerning the Framework Traffic Policy. And what I would especially like to ask the Council of Ministers to pay attention to both Tuzlan Canton and several projects, here's what I'm going to say, which may also be said by colleagues who will also be spoken of by the mayors from the Tuzlan Canton area, as well as possibly by the Federal Government and possibly by the Tuzlan Canton Government. I ask that the following documents, which will concern time from 2015 to 2030, include fast road projects from Orasja via Brcko, Tuzla, Sarajevo and highway connection that we now have. Then, making y arm, the only highway we're working on, which is projected through Tuzla via Banović, Zavidovic and Zepca, a merger with the highway. Then, the appropriate attention to be given to rail traffic throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also to that area, because according to data I have atrocity of traffic and transport and of people and goods is happening in a management covered by the Federation of BiH Railways Directorate, but based in Tuzla. So, the gross work they do and I'm not sure that the proper attention of infrastructure investment in that area is paid attention and investment is being made. And I also want to draw attention to the fact that we all have a great airport out there, which is unfortunately only under the care of the cantonal authorities. It's probably the best airport we have in the country, built once before, Bog gave that space and time and circumstances that led to him being the best. And I pray, therefore, that when we draw up a strategy and action plan to make sure these things are taken care of, that we are not brought into a chat. So that we don't behave in any way will be a public debate, and people will say these things and say more things, but they won't be included eventually. I think these are important things for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for that space and I ask that these things be included in these documents and that they be accessed in a way that finds the means to build these communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7383	Thank you. The Minister of Transport and Communications called for the word. I think it'd be better if he spoke now, so let's continue the discussions. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7384	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I wanted to make an introduction before the debate started. We have before us the text of the BiH Framework Transport Policy for the period from 2015 to 2030. The earlier versions of this document have been returned from Parliament on two occasions to work. The text that is before you is the fruit of the further effort of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and of the Council of Ministers, in terms of improving and clarifying the text, respecting earlier objections and suggestions. The document is again in line with the entity ministries and the Brcko District government in order to achieve a broader consensus, and to respect regional interests and to advance possible gaps. I express my gratitude to all the participants in this effort and to the satisfaction that a high level of co-operation has been achieved and that the text has received positive opinions from institutions involved in policymaking. 94 Framework transport policy is a general, basic document on the basis of which transport strategies, regulations, programmes and action plans will be adopted, which will develop concrete plans for construction and transport infrastructure in the coming period. The adoption of the strategy and action plans will precede a broad public and professional debate, open and transparent debate, to ensure a balanced development of all Bosnian-Herzegovina regions. This will ensure the participation of all factors to implement and bear the costs of implementing the Framework Policy. One of the basic principles of this Transport Policy is the harmonisation of strategic documents at all levels of government, starting from state, entity and Brcko District across canton to municipalities. The aim of this policy is to create an economic and efficient transport system in line with EU standards and rules of the World Trade Organisation. The adoption of this state policy is necessary not only to improve Bosnia and Herzegovina's access to EU co-financing means, but also to create and implement the necessary Transport Strategy for BiH as regards all transport sub-sectors, i.e. road, rail, combined and maritime transport, in order to achieve the effectiveness of transport services for citizens and enable equal economic growth and development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The immediate benefit that will be achieved through the adoption of the Framework Transport Policy is that it will open the door to finance the construction of infrastructure projects by the EU that allocated a billion euros for the next five years for the infrastructure integration of the Western Balkans region as part of the Connectives Agenda, launched at the Western Balkan countries' summit in Berlin last year. Without transport policy, Bosnia and Herzegovina would defacto leave the Connective Agenda and miss participation in an extremely important European project. The financial assistance, accompanied by additional investment lending, will be available for upgrade or construction of parts of the core network for the region agreed by the prime ministers of six Western-Balkan countries at a meeting with Commissioners Hana and Bulco, held in Brussels on 21 April. And already this year, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be able to apply for funds from the first 100m euros in IPA II funds along with favourable loans from European financial institutions. This is a document already supported and welcomed by the European delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and provides a good basis for a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to design, finance and construction of transport infrastructure. I hope to get your support, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7385	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7386	Well, here I am, with great pleasure to realize that tonight we have opened up that famous life theme in this House that everyone is talking about, and that is more to say by those who are opening those other topics that are not life-saving. Since I am an unscheduled deputy minister of transport and a relationship would make no sense not to discuss this subject, so I tried to study this document carefully in this previous part of the debate, when whoever wrote letters and wrote to whom. The first thing I saw and I couldn't believe with my eyes is that this document has the consent of both entity, both entity governments and the government of the Brcko District. Then I tried to find in the text of this document this magic formula that gives the consent of both entity governments, so I noticed that this magic formula – be indicative and general. But I still welcome 95 of this document precisely for these reasons that the minister has stated, that it opens up direct and indirect benefits and benefits of Bosnia and Herzegovina's benefits. And I would really be even more satisfied and uninformed that within today's agenda we do not have a agenda point that says – Information on the state of public duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 31.12.2014. So, adding... within that document, it is evident that so far we have owed a billion and 400 million marks for construction of highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and, for reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of railway infrastructure, we have so far been in debt to 700 million marks. At this point, of these two amounts, we owe a million marks for highways and 400,000 stamps for railways. In those current duties, we have 340 million marks on the highway and we add these 100 million, probably from IPA funds, euros, or nearly two hundred million marks that the minister mentioned. So, again, the easiest thing to build is to build something, so I'd like the State Department of Transport and the link to this framework development plan, etc., to go one step further and initiate or conduct a quality analysis, especially with regard to railways, their sustainability and this objective, which I alleviate, as it is written here. Just a little while, let me see the time, says the objectives – the overall goal of the BiH Framework Transport Policy is the sustainable development of the country's transport system, entities, etc. I especially support this here, this is a sustainable development of the transport system. Analysis of the highways built so far these 70km, I don't know how much within the Federation, on its busiest part, the Banja Luka-Gradiška highway, traffic on that highway, I don't know if anyone was doing it, should determine whether it's a sustainable transport system. The more my eyes see ride these two roads, the more often this one's not. I'm afraid that level of traffic on that highway can't even cover the cost of maintaining the future highway. We can see that maintenance started tomorrow after the traffic, in the work of that highway. So I don't think it's a shame to analyze and plan something else. And much richer countries when they think hard, where there is no economic justification and enough traffic density highways work at half-profile level. And I argue that everywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a semi-profil of highways satisfies the current traffic density and respects the state's current economic situation. One sentence that the minister told me is dear – that this Transport Framework Strategy or plan takes care of the even development of the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this even development of the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the highway in Corridor Vc and some other highways, more important is the modernisation of the highway system and the construction of a fast road system, where highways are not foreseen, and there
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7387	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7388	where the real density of traffic satisfies it. Just like that, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7389	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 96 I must, unfortunately, say that I am not satisfied with Mr. Secretary's explanation. I know very well, this experience taught me in life, that from these original documents come all those major documents. In my discussion at the Enlarged College, I was against this point to put this point on the agenda, because it has not given me a moment's promise or a guarantee that some things will happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the way that it has never done so before. When I said that, I mentioned northeastern Bosnia, and there, unlike my colleagues Rančić, I see not only Tuzlan Canton, but I see northeastern Bosnia, which by area and by population is far greater than the territory of Montenegro. The region is completely in a traffic infrastructure sense abandoned. Niko one is saying that Corridor 5c travels 54km from Tuzla, and let's say that in the event of a journey of 2km from another city, it's a big problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it's no problem when this 5c comes from Tuzla 54km. 17 years ago I participated in a public debate where we presented data on the burden of the Tuzla-tuzla-županje road, which was the busiest road in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is now even worse than it was back then. To remind those present, the region of northeastern Bosnia, and if you want Tuzla Canton and Tuzla alone, is a region where more than 1/4 of Bosnia and Herzegovina's gross national income was created. And today it's in industrial or developmental, whatever sense you want, regardless of the difficulties the current is going through, perhaps the hardest in its history, with 100,000 unemployed, improving infrastructure would in any case lead to an improvement in the situation and create a perspective for new jobs. That's what I talk about when I talk about roads. Taking into account the Tuzla-Sarajevo road, it is a disgrace and shame for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The road from Sarajevo to the south was done, as I would say, in a satisfactory manner and without Corridor 5c, with the addition of the third tape. You don't have that on Tuzla-Saraje's way anywhere. Cheating is one or all of us if we think that the reconstruction of Tuzla-Sara's path is taking 3 kilometers of it now, I may be saying things that aren't touched here or maybe they're not directly involved in this, but I want to point out the danger of it staying in the future as it has been so far. Three kilometres of reduction in Karaula by building bridges or tunnels will not improve the situation when road traffic is involved between Tuzla and Sarajevo. If you take the plane traffic, here I agree with counterpart Rančić who said it was the best airport or the best situationed airport in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but unfortunately Bosnia and Herzegovina did not recognise it, but did recognize WIZ Air, it is WIZ Air's base for the next 5 years where 180 to 200,000 passengers are annually at that airport from Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's another chance we can't miss. If you take rail traffic, you'll see that it's a completely one-of-a-kind appendix and the entire North-Eastern Bosnia region abandoned in an infrastructure sense. If this Strategy or if this future planned development of infrastructure will in several alimony and fix this situation, of course, I am. But I, as a matter of fact, have listened to evenly developed so far, this country has been unequally developed. For this they bear the responsibility of all previous governments. We have not served Slovenia's experiences on even development and some other countries that have been evenly developed and have not seen demographic movements caused by the irregular development of the country, in any part of the country if we speak. So if we don't take that into account and if we don't work in that sense, of course we don't have the money for it, but there are IPA projects, if we're smart enough and smart enough and qualified enough to use them, and I guess in this country, I'm sure there are enough people in this country, just not well placed, that we can also apply to a number of IPA projects, then we have a chance. 97 I really have a very big dilemma whether to support this document, I speak for myself, because this document does not guarantee that these anomalies, which I have mentioned now, and I think, in part, my colleague Rančić said that these things will be, as I would say, satisfied and if we will not escape from the stereotypes that have so far been valid when the development of internal in Bosnia and Herzegovina is present. Well, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7391	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7392	Thank you very much. So it's not a classic replica, I want an explanation in one small part of the first sentence, so. Of course, that's what I'm looking at wider, and when I was talking about the Nuts, so also the Brcko that aren't part of Tuzlan Canton and Sarajevo, that fast road, but that way, But I am grateful to my colleague, Đonlagić, for the discussion that I do not see that and in what I want to thank him for, and invite others, if we want to, to mean of course that these things that hurt are not in the Framework Policy, but they should be in the Strategy and in the Action Plan. If they're not there, then we're back on the whites. So now we're talking both you and I and we want to pray to those who are working on making these documents to sort these things out. Don't make us act any different or we'll be back in tea. And what I want to once again invite all MPs from any party not to share, and from the SDA, and from the DF, and the SBB, and the independent, and these and those, and from the region of northeastern Bosnia, to perform together, and then maybe we have a chance. And not only in the state parliament, but also in the federal and cantonal, etc. So here's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7393	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7394	Thank you. This is the problem, as you say, these last benches, few of us except for those from the party that's the future. Fehime, right? There are few of us, so we have to talk a lot, but that's it, that's the inevitable. Mr. Minister, no matter how much our knowledge reaches, that is, the knowledge of those I communicate with in the preparation for the sessions, we will help and support, by proposing that you state in this document the legal solutions that are necessary, legal solutions, and I will elaborate it now briefly. You know it's been signed, what I often say here at the pay phone... the Dayton Peace Agreement, the agreement, and that he has an Annex that talks about corporations. Now, I don't see anything here about a railway company, and there's a nerve, not just highways, but a nerve to develop any state when it comes to transporting 98 gauges. And we want to produce, we ask for excess values, and now we have the railroad we have. We have it because we didn't do it, and it didn't pay tribute to Anex talking about corporations, so now you know that if the train leaves from Ploč, it changes the locomotive in Capljina, so if it has to go further, it's changing in Doboj and so on, as if we're different countries, not one state. So we need to talk about this on the very basis of future and development. The other thing is the real potential of this country. Of course, when they worked Corridor 5c, they did not view the real potential of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Geological Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina began to work when I was born, yes, yes, when I was born, you can find it, it's no secret document, and it's finally finished... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7398	Please, come on, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7399	I'm gonna show you how I'm gonna get you on my shoulders one hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7400	Let's have a discussion, please, Mr. Backović's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7401	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7402	Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7403	I'll keep going, this is just... 99
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7404	There's nothing, go ahead, no talk with other MPs, continue the discussion, you have the right to discuss, you have no right to talk to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7405	I'll be done real quick.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7407	So, Corridor 5c they led on their strategic goals, i.e. The merger of countries now in the EU is the closest, simplest and fastest tour towards the warm sea, towards the Adriatic Sea. About the real potential of Bosnia, and the geological map ended in 1984, so when I mention somewhere the biggest ruby site is Bugojno, everyone laughs at me. No one's gonna look at what's hiding out there in Koprivnica, in those mountains. No Niko's gonna see it, no one's gonna think about it. And the most productive with the greatest potential is the Tuzlan swimming pool, sir, the Tuzlan swimming pool. And that's avoided. We forget that Majevica is an absolutely untapped mountain, and it is the largest surface mountain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning the largest. Together when you add Jahorina, Trebević, Igman, Bjelašnica, Treskavica, on the surface of Majevica larger. Yeah, yeah. And what's in it? Everybody's quiet, everybody's quiet. Why? I don't know. But I know, and I'm willing to give you a geological map of Bosnia and Herzegovina even though it exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7408	Time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7409	And one more thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7410	Thank you very much. Time's up, sir. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7411	In total, one sentence only to the minister, please, in all of this it is necessary to pass the Law on road traffic, because in the face of the laws of entity blood will fall. In the Republika Srpska taxi driver there are no restrictions, in the Federation every city, every municipality can't go on. And so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7412	Thank you, Mr. Backović. The word has Mr. Predrag Kožul, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7413	The easiest thing for me to do was to refer to my colleague Backović, he's used to it, but I'm going to spend this time really finishing the thought from a moment ago, and otherwise the replica is for Mr 100 Backović. Corridor 5c in its rail and road traffic is not a nervous system but a spine. It may be the spine of the transport system, but the nervous system extends to Izačić, Gruda, etc., it's that nervous system, so it bothers me that there is almost no county in this document. And don't forget that at least in the Federation of County, more than 70% are in charge, I think 80%, long-term, of our road system. And it is those regional roads for which the county is responsible that are due to the general state of its narrow throat of the traffic system. That's why I think it was equal to entities to treat the county within this document as well. That's one thing. And secondly, it may well be written, this, uh,... financial sustainability insurance, point 16, to coordinate the excise on fuels and the car registration fee for maintenance in accordance with EU directives. But they have two reasons to be careful. First, can the economy and people in this country submit this harmonisation so quickly. And second, let's not forget that hidden export of goods that we currently have on the almost full range of the Bosnia and Herzegovina border, and he, I don't know if anyone has analyzed and calculated it, but it's very large because we currently have a slightly lower fuel price than the almost whole environment. This is a very important tax income of this country, so that this should be taken into account in some way, not to increase prices where life means it, but to cigarettes carrying death, which are not in line with EU price and excise directives.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7414	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7415	We didn't get along at all. This when I was talking, I was just saying for the reason you're talking right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7416	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7417	Well, good. So, that network isn't even designed to use potentials at all, because given the circumstances, I know exactly what's in the Lithuanian field. We speak Croatia and oil, Bosnia and Herzegovina has 11 oil stains, and oil found, and now everyone is silent about it. One part is in Herzegovina. And on that map is very precise everything... _________(?) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, you are, you're a messenger. So what I was saying was precisely in the interest of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the true sense of the whole word. And we have to think that way. It's a perspective. Of course, funds are needed. And why do we only have these, as far as you say, 70, 100 km, that should be asked by those who rule. I'm a witness when a 500 million dollar guarantee is laid... in Malaysian, not taking into account the cost of a 25-year concession was given to a firm the only man dared to oppose and break a contract. I broke the contract to Buik of Fancuska, who at that time led over 120 international disputes over 101 fraud of clients and states. And that's why we don't have Corridor 5c today. So, laid down a 500 million dollar guarantee and they weren't given but was given to beautiful eyes then and blocked...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7419	Time. Thank you very much. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7420	But then they disappeared, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7421	Mr. Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replicas clearly went beyond the need for discussion, so it might be in that sense that we can end the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7423	It's up to you to Bogami, it's not me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7424	I would like to say that the document of the Framework Transport Policy should be adopted. It is necessary that we do not lose the time component of the regional partnership and participation in what the world supports and therefore needs to be adopted, but fully aware of the fact that we do not bring it in the way that it would be normal – both at a pace, and with the content and manner in which we have surveyed those who all need to participate together, from companies to individuals. He is the starting document for what follows us, behind this comes the Strategy and comes the Action Plan. For this reason, what many respected MPs have pointed to is imbalance in the development of certain segments of transport infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it must certainly be compensated by one quality process of adopting the Development Strategy. If we drop this, if we have access to the Strategy the way we had on this document we called the Basic Transport Policy Document, then we will surely produce ineffectiveness, disinterest of individual entities... on the ground and dissatisfaction of citizens. I therefore propose that we take very seriously the conclusion that the Transport and Communications Commission has defined as a document that is simple, with the conclusion that we adopt the Strategy, i.e. Transport Policy and this conclusion that when adopting the Strategy we must have behaviour that will provide. Mr. Đonlagić and others have reason to point to disproportionateness. What's the goal of the Drinian Belt, where's the road there, how are we going to integrate it? There are a number of other issues that will be raised about this, and that is why we insist, we as the Club will support the adoption of this document, but with the clause to reach this conclusion on strategies, ways of developing strategies as the Commission has said, in order to avoid bypassing those without whom this cannot be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7425	Thank you. Of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7426	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. Here, almost all day you've been here, I guess you're tired too, and I'm going to have to adopt this, this short address that has been said by the distinguished representative Škaljić, which is that this transport policy really needs to be adopted because it gives us access to all the administrative, technical and financial capacities that the EU is currently providing us with through the Western Balkan countries' transport link project and through the dedicated... So, it is one policy that provides only basic guidelines for transport policy and which, in relation to projects already running and accepted within the basic and then extended networks, transport networks for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the Western Balkan countries, puts us in a position to get very high quality and credit, but also large amounts of grand funds that will allow us to develop project technical documentation and continuity of the continuation of the construction of essential transport routes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I didn't listen to all the discussions I had had some meetings and that's why I wasn't here, but I listened to Mr. Đonlagić's discussion about northeastern Bosnia and the need to build important fronts of transport infrastructure. However, this is not just the issue of northeastern Bosnia, we have such a need both in eastern Herzegovina and in Western Herzegovina and in Central Bosnia and in northwestern Bosnia. So in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have the need to build quality infrastructure within Bosnia and Herzegovina and a quality connection with the countries of the South East European region which then, which is a basic prerequisite for quality and accelerated economic development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What you were talking about will be part of the BiH Transport Strategy and Action Plan. This is in fact the basis of the project task and be assured that all your suggestions, cantons, Brcko District and both Bosnia and Herzegovina entities will be included in all procedures and preparations for the creation of the Strategy, as the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy and the Action Plan will be based on the transport strategies that we have in cantons, entities and, of course, Brcko District. It will actually be one material that will collect or collect our intentions, not only in the area of road infrastructure, but also in the areas of rail transport, water transport and air transport. Then, of course, on the basis of expert opinions, we will determine the priority of these projects and we will see what is most important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it is more important to do Luka in Brcko that connects the Sava and Danube waterway or maybe focus on naum. Is it more important to work a date from Bosnian Petrovec to Bihac or will it be Lašva – Travnik, or will it be Sarajevo – Tuzla, which airport and in what capacity we will continue to develop? We have an airport in Sarajevo, and in Mostar, and in Tuzla, and in Banja Luka, one can be CARGO, the other can be a passenger, the third can be international with some cheap flights, what we will do in rail transport, etc. So each individual project will be part of the Strategy and the Action Plan. Today we are talking about a transport policy that provides only a framework, basic guidelines for what we should do in the next period, but puts us in a position of equal participation in all EU projects as our countries already have neighbours Serbia, Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro. And that is why it is really important to adopt this Strategy in order to enable Bosnia and Herzegovina to withdraw funds from the IPA II Funds and, of course, to have equal participation with the Western Balkan countries, so that we can run and receive the necessary funds for the implementation of the projects, not only Highway 5c but also possible Adriatic-Ionian highways that we have run through Bosnia and Herzegovina, new sections of the railway track, the extension of international airports, our ports and all other candidate projects. Here, I thank you in advance for your vote, for this very important document. Thank you. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I conclude the debate and now we move to the point of the nine agenda ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, respected colleagues and colleagues, whatever you decide. As far as I'm concerned, we can take a break now, we can keep working, we can agree to stop tomorrow, but some colleagues and colleagues say they can't be here tomorrow. I suggest we work today until we finish this job and I think we can finish this. We have a few more points that will require discussion, we have television here, it's one of, in my opinion, the essential points of today's session, of course not underestimating other points, but the rest of the reports are commissions, I mean, it shouldn't be a problem. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7431	I thank the chairman. Reading the Report of the Office for the Review of Appeals, and since the original agenda contained this item, immediately after that point there was also a proposal for a report on the work of the Independent Committee, quite accidentally, since before I mention any name, name and last name of the members of the Office to consider complaints or members of the Independent or Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I do not mean anything to me, nor do I personally know them, nor do I care about who or which political option they belong to. But it is clear from this report of the Board of Appeals that 5 members of the Board of Appeal and 17 total employees are unable to accept and resolve 1,132 complaints in a year. In this Report this House, since we are a new call, and on the website of the Office concerned we cannot find information about the description of the job other than the name of the members, which they are dealing with, which is the internal structure, what is the job description of the daily receipt of the complaint, why they could not, whether, some complaints are resolved or not. In doing so, one person who is a member of the Board of Appeals is working in parallel with another job, so she is also a member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so it is clear to me that they cannot process 1,122 complaints annually because one or even more persons in their working hours perform two functions parallelly and collects their work double. I mean, is it possible that from recognised experts in the Federation of BiH, and recognised experts in the field of administrative law, except that Mrs. Ilme Mehić-Jusufbašić-Jusufbasic had no one else to name but were this way of appointment, and this appointment was confirmed by the previous assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and the entire competition procedure was carried out by the Council of Ministers and thus led to a violation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, more specifically Article 93. Article 93(1), point (a) and (b) of the first The public procurement law applicable from 27.11.2014 shall be incompatible with any other indirect or direct, permanent or occasional duty with the exception of academic, scientific or publicist activities. This shall enter into force on 27.11. Before that, Article 49(5) was worth it. The BiH Public Procurement Act, which was applied until 27.11.2014. The members of the Board of Appeal in the order of management or administrative experts shall be incompatible with any other direct or indirect, permanent or occasional duties with the exception of academic activities. Since we in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have formed a Commission for Conflict of Interest, I will suggest that this Komisijia examines the status of all members of the Board of Appeals and informs this House after the completion of the procedure. The second conclusion will also be that the Office for the Review of Appeals shall submit as an attachment or contribution to this Report information on all employees, a description of the work, a financial report, and by which the coefficient shall be charged salaries for the relevant descriptions of the transactions, but also that from the members of the Office for the Review of Appeals sign their own declaration that they have not violated the Law of Conflict of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7432	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7433	Business intervention, chairman. Article 7(4) - an MP who is prevented from attending the House session or who has to leave the session during its stay shall inform the chairperson and shall state the reasons for his absence. I point to this in order to explain to you that if the MPs of the SBB leave the session, you will lose the quorum. And we've been holding your quorum for the last hour and for a while. It's really not okay. So, we're here from session to session, we'll stay here if we keep working until tonight as long as it takes, we'll come tomorrow if there's a session, we'll come Friday if the session's Friday, we'll be out of business if it's necessary, but it's not okay for the opposition to hold your quorum. The poor one is the authority the opposition quorum holds. And it's incomprehensible for some MPs to come here in the morning, enroll, attend a session, and they're gone all day. I really invite you to influence the MPs to attend the session. We have BHRT, which is why the four of us are not going out now so that we don't lose the quorum because I also think it's an important issue, but it's obvious that the ruling majority doesn't. And now I tell Mr. Sokolović again, by the ruling majority, I mean the whole one, the one you all put together. That ruling majority is unable to provide you with a quorum. I really ask you, since Mr Bosić spoke of taking sanctions for respecting the Rules of Procedure, I agree first with you, you know that I have been constantly calling on this Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure since the beginning. So come, please, all those who go out to you all day long, ask them to act in accordance with Article 7 of Section 4 and to inform you when they leave the session before they leave, and to give you reasons why they left the session. For Article 7(4) makes that clear, not only those who will not be in the session but those who must leave it during its duration. And you can see very well here who constantly comes out, logs in in the morning, counts that he's been to each of these 16 sessions, and actually he's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7434	Please, uh, we're moving on with our work. I mean, this is all like the gentleman said, I've called so many times so far, and I keep calling, to stick to the Rules of Procedure to be present here in the O.R. Each of us has his own responsibility, I can't order anyone. There are procedures prescribed, there is a Codex, there is a Commission on Human Rights that needs to sit down to discuss this Kodex, to deal with this issue, and I expect them to do so. That already appeared as a necessity, from a few months ago we have it. But it is my job to invite you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to carry out your duties knowingly, each of us responds to the one who chose him and who chose him, so please, I appeal once again what Mr. Arnaut was talking about, it really stands. I mean, it would be so much better if this gym was full, I'd be much happier right to tell you. Predrag Kožul, Mr. Predrag Kozul, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7435	Well, one small replica to a colleague of Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. So, I did not know this story about the conflict of interest and the membership of a member of the Board of Auditors in the Independent Committee, but as a member and president of the Committee on Finance and Budget, given that we had to consider on two occasions the report of the Board of Appeals, I informed myself about what the Office is doing and what the size of the work is. And I really need to tell you my knowledge. If anyone in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a bloody living in the past few years, let me put it this way, it's the Office for Consideration 106 complaints. Because these 1,130 and some complaints, which... in terms of public procurement, are really what I acquired directly and indirectly, one huge job. To resolve within the deadline, the legal issue of these complaints in a way that parties are satisfied, that public procurement business goes further is indeed a huge job. That is why, before our term of office, there has been an amendment to the Law that has not yet been implemented. So regional complaints offices in Mostar and Banja Luka are being set up to relieve this office of a significant part of the job. It's a big job this office has been doing for the last few years when it's been so constructed myself. And let's not get into the quality of every single item and all the work, it's really mine, maybe living in a mild ignorance, one firm belief that, if anything else, in that office, just because of the deadlines that are pressing you, because of the job that doesn't suffer, leaving for tomorrow, one at least physically huge, huge job has been done. And that's why we, as a club, will really support the Office's complaint report.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7436	Thank you very much. Mr. Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike some discussions, I don't think the work of this office is what it has to be. As long as there's one complaint that's not settled, it's an investment. She has a lot to do with it. These are public sector investments, government segments towards citizens, according to infrastructure. And every stalemate of that kind is multiple damage. No matter how positive it is, in this matter it matters how many are not done, and there are many. On the other hand, I am looking at this dimension from another angle – not solving complaints in fact greatly impoverishing one number of public companies. They're losing the game, they're not effective, and the primate is taking over some others. Whether it is conscious or not, it can be discussed, but it certainly raises doubts that such behaviour can contribute to the weakening of the company. We have seen, for example, particularly in the area of telecommunications, that the procedure had in some part an exclusive responsibility of management and what they did not do also huge consequences. Part of the municipalities and citizens suffers because a number of intermediaries were reported in the appeal process and expecting a time stalemate is actually blocking the process. For this reason, I will not support a report like this, and I believe that the authorities must find an answer as to how this section of the appeal procedure simply has to be promulgated. It doesn't matter if it's more people, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter how engaged it is on the side of an individual, it can't be a stalemate because of this because it's placing public funds for the needs of citizens and every stalemate of that kind is multiple damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7438	Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7439	I thank the chairman. I'll try really hard to be as short as possible. The esteemed colleague has now mentioned a non-resolvement by appeal. So it's 408, I think, complaints that haven't been solved because we had that vacuum, 107 are complaints because the value is below 800 marks. Although 13 of these cases have been sued by the Court of BiH and in 10 cases, the Court annulled the office's conclusion and ordered resolution, and despite this, we have 408 pending complaints. Now, what astounded me, when we asked for this supplement, is that these unresolved complaints mainly refer to institutions, public enterprises, public institutions, I have analyzed the Republic of Serbia, which are linked to the public by setting up tenders and a number of abuses, crime in this area. And here, I'll tell you, the total value of these complaints for the Banja Luka Clinical Center is 2.2 million marks, for RITE Gacko, famous for setting up komovski tenders, 700 marks, the Republika Srpska Forest 1.2 million marks, the City of Banja Luka 1.3 million marks. And that's why we can't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7440	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7441	Honestly, I didn't want to discuss this. Proposed...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7442	I was hoping, too, but you're right about what you can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7443	You can hope by tomorrow, this is my right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7444	So I'm saying your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7445	What you were hoping for, in the future, I will report to every point and everything the Rules of Procedure allows me to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7446	...by the Rules of Procedure you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7447	Offered by what Mr. Fehim Škaljić said and just wanting to point out one more thing that has been developed to perfection when it comes to avoiding regularity and I must say mass corruption. You can't complain later. It's not a problem, we're competing, Mr. Škaljić, and here you are, ma'am, and you're the best and you get it. And there is no longer any control of that contract. And then it turns out that you are finally more expensive in the collection of me and Škaljić through what you dropped in the tender and subsequent works. Now, that Board of Appeal doesn't respect when you say it's been dropped, it takes 150 microphones here, that he delivered, or predicted 110, because by the unit of measures you made a tender, which is amazing, not by quantities. Well, then he knows that it's much cheaper this rubber than he puts 10 on the tire, and the microphone, I apologize, put the rubber on, I don't know how much and the microphone puts 10 and he passes on the tender. And there are so many in this country that I don't count them now. You mentioned the Clinical Center, it's on the government building, it's at the Clinical Center, it's the Prijedor Vodavod, it's the Banja Luka Vodavod, it's 108 Waterworks in Bijeljina, it's the Clinical Center in Sarajevo, I can count now... Because by circumstances, I was an interested person in these affairs, not myself personally. Well, make a deal for a million and 200 and it ends in five. And that company that she gave for a million and 400, and I'd do it for a million and 400, of course not, but this is done for five. And you can't complain later, because there's no contract control mechanism. We have a lot of slips in the law, a terrible lot. It's at Telekom's, if the equipment was once chosen, the example I'm talking about, Simens came to the Chinese firm, because by the characteristics she says it's the same, and she knocks you out a tender to the gospel. During that time, others who do not have the obligation of a public tender go ahead, go with a new one, and what fills the budgets is lifted by hand and cannot move. Telekom Srpske... is getting whatever he wants, just ask how much he's filled the budget from the profits. He's gone. The derived profit of Telekom Srpske is already twice as high as Telekom Srpski paid for Telekom Republika Srpska. It's a win-win. So this great friendship and care about these is being shown through that segment. So, twice, remember twice as much. Now, that tends... to get as soon as possible from here. So, we must, Minister, Prime Minister, chairman of the Council of Ministers, we must settle the laws, because these laws give you what I am talking about. It's an open door to corruption. You have an example on the highway, you contract a mile for 3 million and it ultimately costs 6.5, but you can't complain. Why? They came across a hard rock, they came across a hole inside that stone, geologically as if they didn't examine anything. I've seen such nebuloses in the final situations that I can't come to myself. So is it possible that someone didn't know how to calculate the viaduct, which is your waist, and the cube of concrete and those brands with that and that..., etc. and give it exactly. But then, in the final situation, it turns out that in that viaduct twice as far away as it was when the offer was made. Well, these are amazing things, amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7448	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7449	I'll be brief again after I've, and I've asked for an additional list of this office to consider complaints because I've said before that this is one of the ways to pump budget money into the hands of criminals and people who furniture tenders. Especially now, we will not support this Report of the Board of Appeal when it is not known whether those persons who have decided on it have done so legally, whether they have been appointed in a legitimate manner and what they have done there. We see here and we know of cases of selective selection where they will be declared incompetent, where they will be competent. Normally, there was a legal option, which was unfortunately left in a law passed by SDP and SNSD, which was later corrected, because the law was made in such a way as to try to extract as many budgetary resources as possible. We need to do a detailed analysis of the complete and change and the Law on Public Procurement itself and change some things, we are already doing that and we are trying to get into the process as soon as possible and with this Law. But we must say that the Democratic Party Club will not support this report...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7450	Thank you very much. 109 I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. 2014 BHRT Work and Business Report, 2015 Report on the Financial Reports of BHRT, the Financial Plan of BHRT and plans of the Programme, the Management Board material of BiH Radio-Television The report was submitted in procedure 10.06.2015. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its Opinion on the Report on 15.07.2015. The Commission adopted the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT and proposed to the House to adopt those reports. The Commission also took note of the financial plan of BHRT and the programme plans for 2015 and proposed to the House to take them in. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7452	Here, I apologize first to the club president for speeding him up, but here's what we're gonna do. This, therefore, we received a report quite extensively, large, which has a lot of superfluous things, duplicated numbers or triplicated in different reports. There are also places for the good old passwords of the type – death of fascism and freedom to the people, there are two, three times that written, so here is one of my requests and a request for these reports to be done in the future, here is the easier passage with us, the freedoms of these verses that are unnecessary and hide really important things. And I'm only gonna pull three figures, three figures as important things. The accumulated loss of 22 million marks, lawsuits and countersuits with federal television, paradoxical... 7.8 million marks and income from a RTV tax collected through HT Eronet 11 times smaller than BH Telekom. I don't want you here, uh, maybe I'm boring with the story of channels in Croatian for..., but these three data are just saying that it needs a serious reconstruction of the Public TV Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all three public TV services in a way that is more rational, that it is acceptable to everyone in this country and that it is more efficient and not to be... Except for these three, come on, I'll warn you of some small numbers that have fallen into my eyes. On page 46, it says that BHRT has income from co-financing of some 200 and some thousand marks, small income, from several companies, institutions. Between them and Neum municipality with a co-financing income of 8.875 marks for something. Well, I'd really be praying if neither of the other 150 municipalities, and as many of them as there are in our country, had no need to co-finance for everything that's on BHRT shown from these municipalities through that year, that neither the Neum municipality would be that way. And not only in the future, but to the municipality of Neum these coins return, if not, it's one of the smallest municipalities in the state, and just found her to co-finance the only one with 9,000 marks of this... Irregular, unfair. But it was, and it would probably further underline my colleague Nikola, that this kind of tv service is politically unacceptable to us, it's seen from this ratio of numbers, far more... would collect in another organisational system of money from the tv tax. 110 accumulated losses that are growing, and within that total public TV system, three broadcasters, so they're suing each other, they're making money to lawyers, and 8 million marks is the weight of their mutual trial. Just enough, in my opinion, not to be longer, to seriously consider legal or any other amendments to make this service sound, rational and acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7453	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7454	I thank the chairman. So, I don't like to read anything at all when I'm talking, I like to speak as I think and feel, but this time because there's a lot of problems, for us BiH's representatives, and also the Croatian MPs, neurolgic(?) when we talk about the situation in the Public TV system of BiH, I will read it this time, and maybe it will be an opportunity to finish faster than I would do around it. So let me put it this way. For at least a decade now, representatives of the Croatian people have been seeking a legal solution to their right to public... Croatian identity and information in their own language. Unfortunately, we don't come across understanding. The report on BHRT's work in 2014 and the 2015 Work Programme are an opportunity to once again point to a violation of the rights of the Croatian people and expectations in this area of public life. To be more precise, I'll remind you that it's regulated by the laws. In the Law on the Public Television System of BiH "The Official Messenger", issue 78 of 05.10.2005 in Article 26.3. says – The Public TV Service Programme will respect national, regional and traditional, religious, cultural, linguistic and other characteristics of the constituent peoples and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The public TV service programme will also affirm the cultural and other needs of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 4 – Public TV service programs will respect the rights of constituent peoples and others and will be equally edited in three official languages and two letters. Article 5 – In the production of its own programme and programme after production of public tv services, equal representation of content corresponding to the traditional heritage of all three peoples and adequate representation of others will be ensured. In the Law on Public TV Service of BiH, "The Official Messenger", issue 92 of 28.12.2005, said Article 8, paragraph 2. – The programmes will be adapted to the needs of constituent peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, edited and broadcast... equal three languages in official use in Bosnia and Herzegovina and two letters. In the Work Report, therefore, the rapporteurs themselves said the following – Public TV Broadcasting Reform is also the 16th condition that Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted on the road towards our country's EU approach. Yeah, that's right. If that is the case, I would like to show you what the European Parliament's resolution recently put forward on the 28th point in which, among other things, the European Parliament points out that stable and sustainable funding, the independence of editors, the broadcasting of programmes in all official languages and pluralism are of key importance to public media. The laws of the entity on public tv comply with the legislation at national level. The 2015 BHRT programme concludes the following – To contribute to the creation of national and cultural identity, raising the general level of art and culture, preserving and promoting music heritage and promoting new creative achievements. 111 So, the way I see it, even right now, there are all the legal conditions for this issue to be resolved. And if that has to be solved, I'll try to give it a good look at the next one. Croatian representatives, i.e. the Croatian people, when it comes to the identity of the Croatian people from the Public TV system, are expected to speak and present the following in the public, among other things – we expect the Public TV system to present real victims of Croats and areas where they live in Bosnia and Herzegovina through history, especially in recent war events; we want to see contributions, for example. about the loss of Croatian villages in the municipality of Travnik: Korićani, Podkraj, Orasac, Sažici(?), Brajkovici(?), in Jajc, Bugojn, Varesh, Zenica, the victims of the village and the settlements of the village of Savina, villages and settlements of Republika Srpska and the like. We would like to see, dear colleagues and colleagues, how and why the Croats died, for example. in Bugojn, Trussina, Bikosima, Miletići, Križančev Sela,..., village in the municipalities of Zenica, municipalities of Republika Srpska, Posavina and others. We also want to see if there is a return of displaced Croats and their lives in places where they return, such as Goodies, lower cabins, in rural areas of Kupres, Bugojno, Eggs, Dervent, Kotor Varosh. We want to see and hear how the general life or better survives where the Croats live in..., Herceg-Bosnian County, Posavina County, what it looks like today in Jelah, the municipality of Tešanj, what happens in the Trapisti near Banja Luka, how people live in Kresevo, Chitluk, Glamoc, Dobretici, etc. We want the local and foreign public to hear how the Croats acted in the '90s. in the year and 1991, further, when it comes to the creation of an independent Bosnia and Herzegovina, the organisation of resistance and aggression, for example. in eggs and the like. Why, after signing the peace agreement, let's say the Croats don't work at Borac Travnik factory, BNT Novi Travnik etc., how they organized... project... in Knights. Why there are no tones and pictures of celebrations such as the restoration of chapels in Gracanica after 247 years, the restoration of the mini-bell in the parish..., events that have recently occurred without saying almost no pictures and tones about the celebrations of sv.. Ive in the Bride, sv.. Francis in Guco Gora, a devastating early Christian basilica in Turbet, such as any condition in Novi Sheher after the catastrophic flood and the gliding phenomenon, why is there no tone and picture of the Art Academy in Široki Brijeg, of the University of Mostar, of the... choir? Now, I'm gonna try to skip out on you guys a little bit, so I don't take up too much of your time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a Croatian identity and needs to be spoken about and spoken about by the Public TV system of this country. From this, in the current programme of the Public TV System... the state can only be talked about for a few seconds, possibly a minute. In my opinion and in our opinion, only one who has a sense of who he belongs to can speak of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7455	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7456	Here, I'll try, I'm really sorry, that is, only the editorship of the Croatian people or, rather, only the Public TV system that will have the Croatian channel. For this reason, I propose a conclusion – The Ministry of Transport and Communication of BiH is in charge that, in accordance with Article 26(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on the Public TV System of BiH and Article 8. The Law on Public TV Service, and in collaboration with the System Committee, within 60 days, provides the House with a solution to the issues of editing, reproduction and broadcasting of programmes in Croatian. I'll do this... I apologize and thank you for giving me the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7457	Okay, thank you very much. 112 Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7458	Thank you very much. I agree with those who think that this report is really burdened with a series of data, especially when it comes to the programming scheme, and I don't know, which in principle doesn't really reflect the state of view, ratings, or the state of view on the ground. But I wouldn't talk about it now, it's ultimately the sovereign right of BHRT's administration to which we can't interfere. What I want to point out here is only two aspects, very short. It is, in fact, one illogicality about funding and the revenue plan for this year 2015. In fact, the income from the RTV tax on the Federation of BiH's territory in 2014 was 11.050.435, the planned income is 10.060,000, which should mean that for this year, the number of recipients in the Federation should be reduced by a certain amount or pre-determined that revenue will fall from the existing ones, meaning the receivers that exist there. What is further indifference is that the revenues from the TV tax on RS territory in 2014 were 9,369,158 and were planned for 12,054,000. So, what the respected counterpart Bećirović would say, a smaller entity gives more money, means a smaller entity gives 12 million and a larger entity gives 10 million. Of course, it's not just illogical in the collected resources, it's illogical when I asked the board of directors, at the Traffic Commission, I'm told that these are the plans of these houses, meaning, or the other two services that make up the total system and that they simply copied... I'm going to read something about ratings now, given that it basically has something to do with these means that I've been talking about. Namely, on the page. 8. Reports of BHRT's programming goals stand – We respect the public who pays us, so one public pays, one does not pay, we respect the public who pays us, we try to stimulate domestic creativity, we are objective, independent, impartial, our programs are fair, and..., based on truth. So, it's, it's standing in the report. Only three sentences after that stand – according to the measurements of the ratings that it performs on a daily basis... BHT1 is located at 7th location. Now imagine a television that has everything that's been said in advance and people aren't watching it, but it's in the 7th place. The next finding is that this year they're planning to move two places, so it's going to be 5. Indeed, much could be found in this report and explained in the same way. I was abstaining from the Traffic Commission in view of, I say, a series of illogicalities that can be found there, and even, I don't know, lawsuits that have been filed with a quite uncertain result where it is possible that at one point BHT will be left without a lot of money, maybe it doesn't happen but it can also happen because the lawsuits are ongoing, the unresolved relationship between BHT and Federal Television, etc., etc. All this points to, what he said, a colleague of Lovrinović and a colleague of Kožul, the necessity of serious changes in the legislation. Which direction she's going to go is the thing that we're going to end up agreeing or not, but in any case, one serious reconstruction is also needed in the fundraising system. Angers must be tied to where they are collected, of course donations, I'm talking about donations, of course it means that people who look at money and are satisfied with what they see there, regardless of what this fee is to own a receiver and not to this program that's being watched.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7459	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7460	It's me again, but since when it comes to how to charge a fee, or continue to pay the bill, I've talked about this. I will repeat because we now have in front of us this report that directly now gives and reflects a picture of what I was saying. According to some preliminary census results in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are a million and 200,000 households, i.e. active housing units. Those active housing units are, someone lives there, each one has a number and no household except I don't know where there's no kind of receiver. If that's true, then the minimum income should be 6 million a month, I speak in total, which is 72 years in total. But we opted through a telecom operator and then brought into an absolutely subordinate position those owned by a state, or entity. Republika Srpska quoted its telecom operator and then this telecom operator started buying, to buy what we, we call cable operators, and to assign phone numbers there that don't go through Telekom Republika Srpska, of course, are lower prices and people don't pay taxes. It's the same thing that happens in the Federation. That's the question I asked for the answer and I didn't get it, that's what I said – I'm unhappy with the answer. And a direct example, my mother, came to her door, an old woman 80 years old, in that moment, and offered her 8 marks less price, and she said – in, I went well, 8 marks cheaper. When what is it? That Telemah gave her the phone number, gave her everything, but she doesn't pay the tv fee anymore, so much more expensive is our telecom operator, or those who belong to the state. She doesn't pay, the woman doesn't pay, 8 marks has a smaller subscription, and she immediately crossed over. And what they do, they come up to the lamppost in front of the house, they deliver a cable from somewhere, they buckle up on the lamppost, and they're zipping on the house. It's the same thing that works in those World War I movies, those peddlers, it's now the sea on the streets of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cities. About the canal. At the next session, I will share here with all my distinguished colleagues one, the grammar one that is called, regardless of how anyone will understand me now, it is none of my business, it is from the University Library of Zagreb, it is kept original, it is printed in the First Serbian Press in Banja Luka and it is called "Gramatics of Bosnian Language" with dictionary and there are also words, printed in 1801. And it's interesting what words are inside, and I'm asking you not to keep your tongues, because watch what I said, it's being kept in the University Library in Zagreb original, printed in the First Serbian Press in Banja Luka, and it's called the "Gramatics of Bosnian Language with Dictionary". I'll try to get it for each of us so we can start thinking a little bit more clearly. And of course when it's a cultural heritage, everything about what national identity is absolutely all about and I agree with you and I suggest that television introduce that device, which I sometimes take if I'm behind the piano, metronic tick-tick-tock-tock-tock, to measure the time that we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7461	That's enough, tick-tock.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7462	There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7463	Five minutes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7464	Because we want this country at as much cost or as much misery as possible. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7465	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7466	So here's what I expected was this way of talking, especially this second part of Mr. Backović, so it's again a lack of understanding of what I'm talking about. Maybe I spoke quickly so Mr. Backović would arrive because this was prepared for 10 minutes, so he could see what I was talking about, so identity, and if you want that very Bosnian language of yours and that dictionary that he's going to give us, I don't mind, so it's not just a language and don't banalize things, I think I've brought up enough things, and I can continue them to say that there's never a contribution to the mother of Lauša who has three sons and a man died and never found them, that there's no one, that there's no story about Mrs. Bilić and the gentleman... after the war, etc. And in the end I'll just say in this replica that I can't accept any more story that there's no money for what we're talking about, and in particular I can't accept any explanation that says that... it's a new division and I don't know what, because only a good excuse of gold is worth it, so when something doesn't and doesn't want it to be. And I wish we had a television that would stop one indoctrination, and the other would frustrated. And I hope that this conclusion will help to end this once story, if not in the fall you gentlemen will have the law and we will see everything you have talked about today about Bosnia and Herzegovina as you see it and how you all advocated it today whether or not it is, you even have a legal foothold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7467	Thank you. So here are the people on TV, the chairman of the board of directors, vice director, director, assistant, advisor, here is the minister. I said this is an important point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Can't now, now word has, please nice, does the chairman of the board ask for a word? Here you go, president of the board of directors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7469	BHRT Good evening, everyone. I welcome the chairman, the chairman, the esteemed representatives, the other guests, the media representatives. I do so on behalf of all BHRT employees, BHRT management, BHRT Management Board and on my own behalf. At today's session, we have a report on work and business and plans for 2015, and I will stick to what's on the agenda. On the committee of the esteemed House of Representatives, we conducted a broad discussion on both business and programme matters, on the subject of the audit report and the plans for 2015. I will briefly try to get the esteemed representatives as soon as possible to inform about what BHRT was doing in 2014 and what 115 intends to do in 2015 and with a special reference to BHRT's business. Short, the 2014 programme, key events, means as much as we could and what is our legal obligation. When it comes to the information program, we tried to do it the best possible way. I think that's the mission we've accomplished. In 2014, we transferred the Winter Olympic Games from Sochi, worked and monitored events in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the floods were in May, followed protests in Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed the World Championship in Brazil, did, according to the evaluation of all...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7470	We want to watch what's said at the pay phone, don't... please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7471	BHRT's Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7472	There's no such thing, so the board president knows what he's saying, this is a topic, this is all a topic, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7473	BHRT's... it's about the elections that were last year. We did it all with a smaller number of people than we did in the previous year. In addition, what was expected of BHRT on the digitisation plan BHRT fully realized, fulfilled, we were ready in October 2014 to play a digital signal. When it comes to finance, in the material you saw movement when it comes to the basic income of public broadcasters, it's a tv tax. Since 2009 it has been in a dramatic downturn, for 2014 so we only had a decline based on a two-million and 900 TV fee at the level of the year, it also reflected the business result. The total income of 38 million and 800, I speak in rough figures, this, total expenditure is, excuse me, the difference is 705,000 marks we've done with the loss, here's not to tell the others... If we were to add that in 2013 I ended up with 2 million and 300 drops in TRV's basic income taxi and that in the first 6 months we have the next million and a half, then you can think, so when the basic source of funding is..., I speak for everyone, and especially for BHRT the basic source of funding of public broadcasters is in complete collapse. Why is that? That's because we have a way of picking up a tv tax in the way that it is and having an unsettled legislation at the level of the state and in entity laws that are never, from the moment they've been adopted, they're not in line with the roof law. So it's in the shortest. The income from marketing was higher in 2014 than we planned in 2015 because the steam years of the big world events that we can react to when it comes to marketing, so in 2015 we planned marketing less than in 2014 because there are no such events that can be covered. For 2015, I'll jump right to it, we're already a good part of the project that's been set up before us, since the Pope's arrival in BiH, 116 Srebrenica, Milan scale, etc., a part of the project has already been done and I hope... it will do this rest by the end of the year as well in possibilities and in a satisfactory way. When it comes to, what was said here, I will return to these individual discussions of esteemed representatives, when it comes to internal relations, so within the BHRT system you need to know that entity broadcasters collect a tax, that the tax on decline, that entity broadcasters use tax collection through incasting services and that what is legal obligation is not implemented, therefore, and pay BHRT funds according to the law as planned in the same way as when they are collected through telecoms. And I'm going to try, in short, when we talk about the audit report, the audit report is given with the reserve, it's given with the reserve precisely for this reason the collection and distribution of tv fees and the audit report, and it's a key sentence, who read it, there are no elements of crime, unconscious business, etc., but it's just being called not to give a positive assessment of why it's not done under the law when it comes to tv tax. Here we talked about, therefore, questions asked by esteemed representatives, and they go in the next row. Mr. Kožul said - accumulated loss of 23 million. I'll tell you that on the overlapping day of BHRT's claim from two entity broadcasters is 21 million. So, and we process it through the court because there is no possibility of sitting down to the table and talking on the subject. It primarily refers to the illegal distribution of RTT fees by entity broadcasters, as well as the non-service, i.e. the payment of services provided by BHRT for Federal TV. When another observation is that BHRT is politically unacceptable. I have to tell you, so this observation is looking forward to me because BHRT is trying to be a public service, and it really is, without any political pressure, and it is at the service of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's very difficult to be a public service at the state level, it's always easier to be half state, and then you can switch both sides of the service and make a program to which it suits. Our target audience is complete, all viewers and listeners of our programs to the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we talk about ratings, etc. And that's questionable stuff. One view is the territory of one entity, and the other is when the broadcaster's viewers in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina are seen. What we are constantly respected, which is, and always like this for reports or for solving important issues when it comes to public broadcasters until, uh, the channels are mentioned. We are not the ones who open channels, it is this esteemed Parliament, the one who makes decisions about it, and we are just implementing the law when it comes to these things. When we talk about the programme and some of the observations that stand here, which have been made, I am proud to say in my struggle for the literal survival that BH worked last year for the radio year, that he got that recognition, and that he was declared at the state level, he even got one recognition, a European recognition as one of the radios, public broadcasters, radio broadcasters at the level of Europe. When we talk about other programmes, for the first time, and we offer programmes and we offer reports, this is the first time we have heard of some of the contents with which representatives, here to say, Croatian peoples are not satisfied. So, we would be happy to be told or to have a body from this Parliamentary Assembly that would oversee the programmes, but therefore that these are not people from politics, so that these are people who understand it, and that they say – that, there is a program that is good, it is not good, it is represented, it is not represented, etc. And I have to say, the first thing I'm not happy with is the program to that end, because I know what it should be and what all the programs on BHRT are missing, and they 117 are missing from the elemental stuff, and that's the basic source of funding. We know that we lack domestic dramas, home programs, uh, ethno programs, etc. But we're just trying to do what we're dealing with. And I'm on the committee, and I'm going to conclude with that, and I told the commission, and now I say the Parliamentary Assembly in 2007 her Research Centre was doing an analysis of the RTV tax as a basic basis for funding public broadcasters. In 2007, and...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7474	Can you slowly bring the end?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7475	BHRT... The Parliamentary Assembly found that for the two years alone, the decline in the fee of the TV tax amounted to 21 million. It's 2015. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7476	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's the 11th point, Ad. 11. Annual report on agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations material So that's point 11. The report was delivered in the procedure on 08.07.2015. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted its opinion on the Report on 20.07.2015. The Commission accepted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7478	I thank the chairman. In some ways, the picture of this Report was presented in the preface of the Report in question in a way that it was said that, in addition to the negative results achieved in agricultural production for the promotion in agriculture and rural development, 139.1 KM or 4% less funds compared to the previous year were delivered. And in the very preface, the first sentence is that, in 2014, it is a year with huge direct and indirect damages and losses that have been caused, as we all know, by May floods, which have been estimated at around 366 million KM. So, in 2014, we have a reduction in the total agricultural budget, despite the fact that agricultural production suffered from the May floods of the largest damage. It is also further noted that the development of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina is only our declarative commitment 118 because there are no concrete, no concrete action, and what is not achieved in almost all discussions, discussions and official documents is not an important opportunity for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The report states that the Agriculture and Rural Development Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina can only be found to be advocating itself, there are no defined concrete policies and support that would be strategic and essential for the development of the economy as a whole. This context continues to be transmitted to the 34th page of this Report, where agricultural and rural development support was mentioned in the fourth part and total in 2014 at the state level, as I mentioned, was allocated 139.1 million KM. What is worrying and what, as I learned in the conversation with the agricultural producers, angered them is that the trend of reducing the agricultural budget continues at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example. if compared to 2012 then 16% less foreseen for Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture and development in 2014. Also, this report does not indicate how much has really been made out of the planned agricultural budgets. What I know in the conversation with agricultural producers, above all in the Federation of BiH, is that the total debt in the Federation of BiH is owed to farmers over 50 million KM, 27 million for agricultural producers and somewhere over 23 million for capital investments, although these debts are projected to be far higher for the reason that projects were not completed in 2012 and are then projected, or estimated to be one total agricultural budget in the Federation of BiH. I must stress that, also from talks with agricultural producers in Republika Srpska, there is a significantly better situation than the Federation, because in Republika Srpska they received incentives for May 2015, and in the Federation they received support for July 2014, so almost a year late in the payment of incentives for agricultural production. I think this says enough how seriously we approach the development of agriculture and how we all want to say insurance or job creation in agricultural production. What we can also see from this report is that a concrete report...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7479	Time, Jasmina time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7480	is not a real situation in Republika Srpska and the Federation. Here, for example. in part of the assessment of the damages and losses in the agricultural sector caused by floods and the implementation of recovery measures
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7481	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7482	There are a number of activities done in Republika Srpska, but there is no activity at the level of the Federation and Brcko District. There are also a lack of realistic measures to develop and strengthen agriculture's competitiveness, as there are no reports from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. So there's no such report from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7483	Thank you, Mr. Emrić, for the discussion. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7484	Also, here's what I suggest is the conclusion I delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7485	We got it, thank you very much, we got it, we saw the conclusion, thank you for finishing the discussion. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7486	Here, as you can see, I've promised to report to every item of the agenda. I've been discussing it on the committee, and I'm just going to get a taste of it, not wanting to repeat it, of course, here's my colleague Emrić, and he said too much. The basis why we have what we have is because there is no strategy for the development of agricultural production at the state level. That's one reason, no incentive, no incentive, but that's one reason. Bosnia and Herzegovina was within the former state's republic, except for the exotic and southern fruits, an area that had production with a number of residents that met the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population. Notably, the 1989 statistical yearbook gave the number of agricultural products exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as much as imported Bosnia and Herzegovina had a surplus of agricultural production. But that's not illogical, she had Agrokomerac, over Hepok, Agrosemberija, not to count now, and she was an exporter of food. Today, when you take statistics, you see that you're an addict, like, someone doesn't misjudge me, like a baby about mother's milk, because there was no destruction on Sokoc, but the potato-processing factory is destroyed, and these soco-popping potatoes are being consumed very little today. The Glamoc factory, two of the most modern factory in Europe, also destroyed in Glamoc for the processing of potatoes and no glamonic potatoes. A few hundred million cost the project, because all the staff, both in one factory and in another, went to training for months in Switzerland. That's just one example I'm referring to. In Herzegovina, considered under California's climate conditions, there were three generations each. Only the high seas in Domanovici gave these exotes of kiwia so much that it was exported to Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia, and go to today and see what happened to the high seas. I suggest, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, that the entity ministers and sit with the entity prime ministers, because food is the basis of the survival of a country, water and food, to make a strategy for the development of agriculture in these areas. Because today the population concentration in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in 8 cities, there is an empty space left, Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Mostar, Gorazde, Prijedor, who, and eight of them here, I counted eight. Bihac, nine. And there's your population concentration, and the rest is empty. And instead of putting it into operation, so imagine that we exported cabbage to China today we import it from China, yes, yes, the cabbage produced in the area of Bugojno, the Upper Wacouf exported to China, today we import from China cabbage, enough. The strategy must be made, because there is no country, Belgium which is vastly smaller than us, has less processing surfaces, exports food to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under climate conditions, it is four times more unfavourable than Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the same thing with Holland, I'm talking on the surfaces. And Holandija has five times the population, where it's placed them, and it's exporting food between us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7487	Thank you. It doesn't have to be used all five minutes in the Rules of Procedure, which is a maximum of 5, but you know. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7488	Now I'm gonna use it every second of every second.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7489	Well done, go ahead. I'm closing the debate. We move to item 12, but before we move to point 12, I would like to put the proposal to the vote to bring together the debate on points 12 to 17, given that it is reports on the work of the House of Representatives committees. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. Twenty-four for, one against. RS doesn't have a majority. We're going to the second round of voting, right? Prepare for the second round of voting. Vote now. 24 for, 1 against, no abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity. I find that we have adopted this proposal, so we are now discussing points 12 to 17. Ad. 12. - Ad. 17. Work reports from the 2014 House of Representatives Commissions Reports on the work of the 2014 House of Representatives committees were delivered to you earlier through regular mail on 20.07.2015. You have received a report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7491	I thank the chairman. I find it incorrect to list in their report all members and members of the committee and to put what they need, presence, whether plus or minus or percentage terms aside from each name and last name as much as anyone has attended, while other commissions do not. So it turns out that in some commissions someone had never been or attended a session, but others who came regularly repaired and maintained the quorum and corrected the average of the commission. I will propose a very short conclusion where the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly committees will be, in the future, contain a table picture of the presence of all members and members of the commission, as well as the reasons for not holding the committee's meetings in an earlier scheduled and timely period of time. The table view has been unified and is valid for all commissions, meaning permanent, common, ad hoc, temporary and the like. Why am I saying that? I will look only at the Commission for Economic Reform and Development. For example, from 01.01 to 31.12.2014, the commission held three sessions, in a year three sessions. Two were cancelled and two 121 times because of the lack of quorum. And in this you will not see anyone who has not come, nor who has come, and for which reason, who does not constantly come to the session and thereby challenge the holding of a session because of the inability to establish a quorum. I hope that colleagues and colleagues, and all of this goes in fact to what counterpart Diana asked for as information, will be seen from this tabular display exactly who is appointed, where, why she cannot attend the meetings of certain committees, in fact because she is appointed to countless commissions, how permanent so common, ad hoc, temporary, so some are not even formed to this day as a GRECO Anti-corruption Commission in BiH because some can absolutely never respond to the constitutive session of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7492	Thank you. Mr. Fehim Škaljić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7493	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. With all the risk of assessing the work of the previous parliamentary bodies, I am taking the opportunity to give some of my consideration to the role of committees and what is behind us. Parliamentary democracy means dialogue, working bodies allow the dialogue to assimilate the professional public, the non-governmental sector and dispel the plenary session. It needs to be realistic, the capacity of that need hasn't yet been built to a level that can satisfy us. And it can be quite reasoned from these reports that the development of parliamentary bodies and their roles is late, that it is insufficient for Parliament to have the needs and that there is a need in this regard to carry out certain actions that will enable it to be done in a better and more comprehensive manner. I would say that, in most of the work of parliamentary bodies, the approach is formal, and according to the relation of the members of these committees and to the relationship between the Council of Ministers and the expert bodies that assist this, as well as, I would say, the wholeness of the lack of adequate information or media presentation of what is done in the bodies. If we look at the state of parliament in the region and the position of parliamentary authorities in that role, then it is seen that the BiH Parliament is significantly behind that capacity. I wish we could change that. When we take our current practice and our new assembly, which we also participate in the composition of parliamentary bodies, we see that there are in... places of dynamics, but all of this is not appropriate. The reason for this can also lie in the fact that the procedures we use in Parliament's work make it impossible to conduct the debate in good time, from setting the agenda until the session, that is 15 days, for this period there is nothing but formal. It may be that we should consider that in most things we have a pre-session calendar and at least 80% of the agendas by the end of the year, which would allow parliamentary bodies to be responsible in the timely preparation of something, which could be done at some of the sessions in the next period. It is evident that some important bodies that allow the tide to be more effective, and we are facing obligations from this European path, especially from the concept... of hundreds of legal documents to be adopted in the procedures that we now have, simply the time we simply have no space for it. Therefore, parliamentary bodies must be a stronger filter and there must be places of discussion in order to make the tide more efficient. I advocate that it can be in this or how it can be improved at an extended session of colleges, consider this dimension and give one, let me say, an innovative approach to what we would discuss at some of the 122 sessions, because it is important for us to increase our efficiency, and we can put it if we put parliamentary bodies in the role that we can play. She's not used enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7494	Thank you. It's now 7:45, are we going to move on with the session or are we going to interrupt? _________(?) We can finish this in an hour. I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'm in favour of finishing the session, but we're going to have to try a little bit in that direction, of course, by not taking away anyone's right. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three sentences to say. By fully maintaining what the distinguished colleague, Gasal, has said, I find it completely pointless in parliamentary democracy to tabulate the presence of parliamentarians with sessions that should naturally reflect their work. Here, I'll take myself as an example, if there's anything, and I have the right to say something for myself, something where I've worked really hard together with my colleague Pandurević, i.e. The Committee on Human Rights and I think it's ours, a committee where we really gave our maximum to the board of directors, but when someone from the media or one of our colleagues here is watching and seeing my name written by Nermina Kapetanović, uh, three minus in 2014. Well, you see, not all absences are the same specific weight. For example, my two, or three absences are tied up, two are tied up during the time that I blocked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly institutions, under the circumstances, and at that time they were subjected to a very difficult operation and pulled barely a living head, when I was on a pillar of shame by many colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly who have the courage to look me in the eye today without apologizing for it. So my absences from the session were absolutely justified. And I don't want a superficial observer of this report, let's say to me my favorite commission, the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedom and something I really care about, I don't want to get the impression of me or any of my colleagues who may be, here's to say Mr Ivanić, although I don't like to talk about people who aren't here, that we haven't given our maximum inside those commissions. It's pointless, so this is how you table it. This is not addressed, therefore, to the secretary of the commission, whom I believe is otherwise one of the best secretaries, but I think I must have one... approach to the activities, because in parliamentary democracy the presence of the session does not necessarily mean activity. There were dead bodies just sitting in the seats and none of them fide. So I fully support my colleague Maja's discussion and I'd like to make a different...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7497	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7498	I thank you for the words, but I'm giving up my right to speak for every commission for five minutes, that's at least 40, and this is not how I'm going to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7499	Well, that's fair enough, you got nothing. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. Before we move to item 18, I would like to put to the vote a proposal to bring together a debate on points 18 to 22, given that it is reports on the work of the joint committees of both homes. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, 1 against, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted, therefore, this conclusion to bring together points 18 to 22. Ad. 18. - Ad. 22. Reports on the work of the joint committees of both homes And you've received these reports before, and I remind you that only the Joint Committee on Oversight Agency's work surveillance has not delivered its work report for 2014 years. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point 23, Ad. 23. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2014, Council of Ministers' material
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7506	I will indeed make sure that I speak very briefly even though this topic deserves to be spoken a little longer, but since I appreciate that MPs, I'm sure, will be very interested in this report, and will read it carefully and already I believe and read it, and therefore we will be able to follow these conclusions ourselves, but I would like to say a few things that I want because of the stenograms to remain recorded. I will not tell you about the introduction and the organisation of the conference itself which, according to my own assessment, and the evaluation of the members of the Commission, is very successfully organised in Bijeljina, and it seems to me that it is one of the few conferences that lasted longer and not shorter, and that the number of participants was indeed such that all the issues that are related to human rights and what is the role of Parliament and parliamentary committees, which is a question of parliamentary supervision, are indeed achieved in a way that, among other things, all the issues through the conclusions are defined by binding competent institutions that we can follow their work and the realization of the conclusions. I would particularly like to stress that the Joint Committee on Human Rights regrets that the Minister of Civil Affairs, nor the Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, responded to the conference, and we have called on the Ministry of Civil Affairs to deliver written material on the implementation of obligations in the field of human rights without delay. I would like to point out this in particular, and I think that we have made this clear recently on the Joint Commission with the competent minister and I 126 believe that there will be no such shortcomings in the future as are recorded at this conference itself. At the very end of this conclusion, the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly assumes the obligation of the organisation of annual conferences where we will monitor and analyse everything that has been concluded in the work of this conference. I am taking the opportunity to thank all participants, and in particular to point out that the Minister for Refugees and Displaced Persons, the minister with the whole team was present, and most of the obligations relate to this very resolution ministry, which does not mean that other ministries have no obligation, such as the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Security, agencies, administrations, etc. A transcript of the session is available for each of the MPs, so we will be able to closely monitor each of the areas covered by this report. I'm sorry I may have been too short, but my intention, therefore, is to...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7507	Borislav, let me ask you, don't sit down, are you asking us to adopt all 21 of this conclusion here today, or are these the Commission's conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7508	Yes, the Commission unanimously adopted all the conclusions, so there is no reason not to do so also the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. So all the conclusions and this content...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7509	What are we supposed to do? So let's accept this information with your conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7510	With conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7511	With the conclusions, not to vote on the conclusions, but to have one vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7512	...but the whole information with conclusions because the content and transcript and a series of details that are...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7513	Good to know. Secretary, take a little care of this so we know what we're gonna do. Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7514	As a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, I would like to support this initiative by the chairman of the Commission. I was also at this conference, representatives of the 127 Council of Ministers were present and I think it is indeed an important issue for the protection of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7515	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 28, Ad. 28. Proposal for the conclusion of the SBB Club MP, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as an authorised proposing, asks the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for information on why the Proposal for Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH, which was adopted by the House of Representatives at the 7th session, held on 26.02.2015, has not yet considered the House of People, nor the Commission responsible for Finance and Budget of the House of People, although it is a mandatory point" And we put this point in today's session. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7517	One sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7518	No problem, go ahead. Mr. Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7519	...after this only two points more to discuss, I would refer to what we have given in the proposal to include this point in today's agenda, which is our surprise, so in a certain way, here we are trying in this way to come up with a request that this point be considered at the House of Peoples, because it's been six months, almost six months since we've discussed it and it really doesn't make any sense without showing it in Parliament our desire and willingness to give up some things that would point to Parliament's seriousness and desire to save wherever it can be saved. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7520	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7521	Here, I'll, with respect for real time, be very brief. First of all, I don't think it's common to draw these conclusions when it comes to a different home. Here it is, we are Parliament that has two homes that are completely equal in their work and I am now thinking what it would look like to the House of 128 peoples to bring something and ask why we didn't bring it, and they brought it. I'd probably say that's our problem why we're not, we respect procedures, we have deadlines, we'll do it in that time. So for that reason I wouldn't support it. The second reason, I suggest to my colleagues from the SBB that, they have a delegate in the House of Peoples as far as I'm concerned, and I think I can get that information, if nothing of your delegates who's there, which is why something that's finished there doesn't end. It's not right for the House to ask another home now why he didn't do something we did.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7522	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7523	If you allow me to read, the proposal for a conclusion: - The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an official proposal, because the moment it was adopted here and sent to the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives became an official promoter, asking for information from the House of Peoples, which is why the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds adopted by the House of Representatives at the 7th session, held on 26.02, has not yet been discussed at the House of Nations or at the competent Commission on Finance and Budgets. So we're not looking for information, of course, why didn't the People's House adopt it, but why didn't the People's House consider it? And it's absolutely a mandatory point. So this is a question, not only of respecting the Rules of Procedure by the House of Peoples, but there is indeed an indication that it may be a targeted blockade of the legislative process. Therefore, the College of the House of Peoples referred this proposal to the Finance and Budget Commission of the House and appointed it as the competent commission. That commission refuses to put this issue on its agenda. Now, unlike, since you mentioned the SBB, you were not really addressed to you, since you mentioned the SBB and our delegate, unlike the SDS and that coalition, we have no delegates in the College of the House of People, nor in the leadership of the competent commission, so we can't influence the Commission or the House of Peoples to put this on the agenda. However, I do ask you, especially those who, in various discussions today, have looked back on the need for respect for the Rules of Procedure, really ask you to consider the fact that refusing to include the agenda of mandatory points, especially when the Proposer is a House of Representative, here is no longer an MP, a Club of MPs, etc., here is the official proposal to the House of Peoples of the House of Representatives, the refusal to include this point may represent a targeted obstruction of the legislative procedure. So at the House of Peoples it's how to vote, but I can't avoid it, they can't refuse to put this on the agenda. So we're really not looking for information why they didn't adopt. It clearly says why it hasn't been discussed on the committee responsible, and in 2602 it was adopted here. And we also delivered copies of the House of Representatives' request for the House of Peoples to be seen and the College's decision to determine the committee responsible. So I especially appeal to those who today in the first few dots so much called upon the Rules of Procedure that they take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7524	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to point 29, but I would like to inform you that the Foreign Affairs Commission held the session as I requested, but has not delivered an opinion on the agreements referred to in points 129 29 and 30, which is point 29. – Note, exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the implementation of the grant of assistance from the Government of Japan to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the procurement of new generation vehicles, and point 30. – Note agreement, exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan on the implementation of a grant of assistance from the Government of Japan for 2014. If there is no great urgency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that we are now trying to do something about these two points of the agenda, and it is a grant, something is not explained to the Commission as far as I understand here. Mrs. Monika Tomić asked for a word, the deputy chairman of the Commission. Here you go, Monika.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7525	Dear Chairman, I welcome you all very much. We're not basically, we all unanimously agreed not to give a positive opinion on these two points because we didn't get relevant data. Maybe if there's a prime minister here, maybe we can take our opinions back if you could maybe explain these two points to us. So we're not...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7526	So it's no problem we're not harassing the Prime Minister now. Thank you, Monika. Only I would ask, so this thing to be recorded. Today, therefore, at a session of the Commission which was willing to hold the session, there was no person who could answer the questions asked by the members of the Commission. I ask that, so I am informed today and ask that it be prepared for the next session, if it is not a problem, for the Commission to hold a session, put these two points, listen to the opinion and, of course, give a positive opinion. This is a good thing for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't see what the problem is, this is a grant. So we're gonna postpone the debate on these points for the next House session because we don't have the conditions to discuss it, so points 29 and 30. Prepare to vote on this proposal, I cannot decide this on my own, but we will decide together. I suggest it goes to the next session of the 29th and 30th. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, we've made as far as I can see, a decision with 25 votes to, without against, one abstention, enough entity majority, that point 29 and 30, so the Note agreements go to the next session. By then, the Commission will have completed its part of the work. We're going to the 31st point of the agenda, and that's it, Ad. 31. Giving consent to ratification of Appendix 2 of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission relating to the horizontal programme on nuclear safety and radiation protection under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance The agreement was delivered in the procedure on 15.07.2015. You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. 130 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda number 32, Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Delivery for the Development Policy of the Business Ambience) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7529	So, let me remind you, this is the same agreement that was recently rejected in this House of Representatives. The reason for the rejection was that no one knew what these funds would be spent on. That was the answer we received from the Finance Ministry officer who was on the Commission, and that was the reason for the rejection. That reason hasn't changed. I remind you that these are not donor funds, this is a loan that someone needs to repay later. I don't believe there's any credit I should vote for without knowing what it's going to be spent on. If this is a reward for the adoption of some laws, then it's not a reward, it's a loan that should be returned to the next generation. So nothing's changed, we've got that law back here, probably because of the pressure from the entities that need financial resources. I had various calls and pressures and international communities, to my surprise, and then I realized why they would be so worried that we would adopt here that they would lend us credit. Today, I read the statement by Prime Minister Željke Cvijanović that there is nothing since the adoption of the Republika Srpska Reform Agenda unless they get this loan. What difference does it make? If that's why you're putting it back there to raise your hand that it's ready to go into reform to go to the EU, then I'm only against this kind of credit.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7530	Thank you, Mr. Bosić. Anyone else want to talk? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate. We have this way exhausted the debate on all 32 points of the agenda. I, just to let you know before we finish this session, had an announcement from one club that you'd be looking for a break, and then we agreed that I would actually take about 10 minutes to extend the voting time that was usual without asking for a break from the club, so I agreed. And I am informing you since it is now 8:10 that the vote will be at 8:40 p.m. So, I'll see you here at 8:40. 131 Please take your seats, we've waited long enough. We're going to vote, are we going to wait for your colleagues? If we can, if he'll come, let's wait two or three minutes is no problem. We'll wait here. Please prepare nicely for the vote, starting with a vote of the 15th session of the House of Representatives. Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Representatives. We are going to item 3 of the agenda – The adoption of conclusions on events during the ceremony in Potocari, 11 July 2015. – Proposer: Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. We vote separately on the adoption of conclusions. We have three conclusions. We vote first on the first conclusion. Should I read you the conclusions? You don't have to. Prepare to vote on Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević's first conclusion. Vote now ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7536	136 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7537	Let's press again. We repeat the vote at Mr. Backović's request. Prepare to vote. Go ahead, try it now. Vote. 4 for, 22 against, 5 abstentions. There's no general majority. I'm finding...
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7538	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7539	Okay, nothing. At the request of colleague Diana, please, at the request of colleague Diana again, for the third time vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 5 for, 25 against, 4 abstentions. There's not enough entity majority. I figure we didn't adopt, uh, not to make any further, this report. Let's go, we're voting on a proposal for the conclusions of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil MP who reads – so we have three conclusions. How are you looking in the package, individually? I suggest we make a statement first on the package. So these are three locks that we have, no, no. Let's, let's take it slow. I suggest we vote on this being in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7540	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7541	She so suggested I'm... what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7542	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7543	So, please know, the conclusions are – the Commission for the conflict of interest of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will examine the status of all five members of the BiH Appeal Office, and, after the completion of the procedure, inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So there are opinions in the College that this cannot be given to this Commission by Parliament, but this is the conclusion. I have so much to say, it's all about my colleague's counsel. So 2. By the next session of the House of Representatives, the Office will provide detailed information on all appointed employees in the Office, a description of the work for each individual post, the technical training, which each individual place of application., the professional provision of all appointed employees, the fee coefficient for each individual place, the other material fees that the appointed members of the Office receive monthly as members of other working bodies, committees and the like. 137 AND 3. A financial report by the BiH Appeal Office to submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for consideration. It's about a proposal from a representative, not a commission. When it's a commission, it's a package. This is now a proposal, we have the same treatment. We vote whether we vote in a package or individually. I suggest we vote in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. We're voting on a package of conclusions. Prepare to vote on the conclusions. Vote now. 24 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted all three conclusions. Let's go to item 10 of the agenda, please pay attention, I'm really asking you to finish this job, we're tired all of us, so we're not going to make any mistakes so we're going to be looking for a change again, I mean, I've now taken this thing seriously, so I think this is, I've been serious so far, but from now on, this is – the report on BHRT's work and business for 2014, the report on BHRT's financial reports carried out for 2014, the Financial Plan BHRT's and the plans of the 2015 programme, the material of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board. We vote on the adoption of the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes for, 9 against, 1 abstention. There is no entity majority from the RS entity. Now or later? We are going to the second round, prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 22 for, 12 against, 1 abstention. There are no 2/3 of the RS entity and I find that we adopted the 2014 report on the work and business of BHRT. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SNSD Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 22 votes for, 15 against, 1 abstention. 10 from the RS entity against, that's 2/3. So we didn't adopt this report. We are voting on the proposal to take the financial plan of the BHRT and the plans of the 2015 programme into account. 138 prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 11 against, 3 abstentions. There's not enough, there's no 1/3 from the RS entity. Agreeing now or later? It's a match. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23, vote in, 15 against, 1 abstention. 10 from the RS entity against. We did not, therefore, receive knowledge. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nikola Lovrinović, which reads – The Ministry of Transport and Communications is tasked to comply with Article 26(4). Law on Public TV System BiH and Article 8. Law on Public TV Service and in collaboration with... provide a solution to the issue of editing, reproduction and broadcasting of programmes in Croatian within 60 days. [[You don't understand what he's saying.]] Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 19 against, 4 abstentions. There's no general majority. I realize we haven't adopted this conclusion. We're going to point 11. – Annual report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, material from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 2 against, 6 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I understand we adopted this report. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić, which reads - The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing and delivering within 90 days to discuss the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives analysis of bone and benefits through a benefit-based analysis of the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development at the state level. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 14 against, 1 abstention. There is no double entity majority from the RS entity. Agreeing now or later? It's a match. Prepare to vote for the second round. Vote now. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7547	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7548	Mr. Senad Šepić requests a repeat vote. It's on behalf of the SDA Club and we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again in the first round. Vote now. 28 for, 10 against, 1 abstention. There's no 5 from the RS entity. We're going to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 26 for, 11 against. There's no 2/3 against any entity, 7 is against the RS, 4 is from the Federation, it's less than 2/3 from one entity and another. I find this conclusion adopted by Mr. Senad Šepić. I now put the motion to vote to unite the vote on points 12 to 17, given that it is reports on the work of the House of Representatives committees. We're voting on unification. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no problem, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. We've united. We are now voting on the adoption of the report on the work of the House of Representatives committees. So these are points 12 to 17. 140 prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, no problem, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted reports from 12th to 17th of the House of Representatives Commission. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil MP, which reads – The report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly committees will in future include a table picture of the presence of all members/members of the commission as well as the reasons for not holding the commission's session in the previous scheduled term. The table display has been unified and is valid for all commissions – permanent, joint, ad hoc, temporary. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 8 against, 1 abstention. There is no entity majority from the RS entity. Agreeing later or now? It's a match. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 23 for, 9 against, no abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, 5 is from the RS, 4 is from the Federation. So this is a second-round conclusion. I am putting the motion to vote to unite the vote on points 18 to 22, since it is the reports on the work of the Commissions both at home. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, no problem, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted a proposal to vote in the package for points 18 to 22. We are now voting on the points, so on the reports of the joint committees from points 18 to 22. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, no problem, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted reports on the work of the joint committees of both homes for 2014 from points 18 to 22. We're going to point 23. – Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2014, the BiH Council of Ministers' material. We are voting on a proposal for information to be taken to the knowledge. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, no problem, 3 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have come to the knowledge that we have made a decision to receive this information. 141 We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the House of Representatives of Senad Šepić, which reads 1), the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to also refer to the parliamentary procedure the Law on Fiscal Responsibility within 90 days and 2) the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also tasks the Council of Ministers to prepare for the Parliamentary Assembly the Information on the responsibilities and guarantees of all municipalities in BiH on 01.06.2015. I suggest we vote in the package. Prepare to vote to make a decision whether it will be a package or be an individual vote. That's what we're voting on right now. Prepare to vote. Vote now. [[Common discussion]] Listen to what I'm saying. Let's do this again. We vote now on whether we vote in the package, we have two conclusions, in the package. Prepare to vote, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 1 against, 8 abstentions. There is no entity majority from the RS entity. We're going to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 5 against, 4 abstentions. 5 against the RS, 0 against the Federation, there's no 2/3 of any entity against. We adopted it to be a package. We're voting right now in a package of both conclusions. We're voting on the conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 15 against. There is not enough majority from the RS entity. Let's go to the second round, shall we? Round two. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 15 against, no abstentions. More than 2/3, 11 against RS. This package of conclusions has failed. Point 24. – Proposal for a Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH to discuss the Council of Ministers' Information on the attack on the Zvornik Police Station and on the recent detention of people in Republika Srpska (in line with the conclusion of the 12th session of the House, held on 28.05.2015.). We vote on the adoption of the Joint Commission's conclusions on defence and security. You've got the conclusions, you know them. 142 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, 6 against, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted the conclusions offered by the Joint Commission on the order of the House of Representatives. We are going to item 25 of the agenda – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: MP Hanko Vajzović. So we are voting on the adoption of a proposal for a conclusion, i.e. the appointment of MPs to the Interim Joint Commission. I suggest it be Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. To be my proposal since she's the one proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7550	_________(?) ... [[no microphone turned on]] Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7551	All right, then. I'll take that. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7552	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7553	Please, first we'll determine if we have a decision and then we'll give names. We're voting on a decision, a motion for a decision, and then we'll name it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, 10 against, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the proposal for this decision Now names – Mrs. Maja-Gasal-Vražalica, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7554	Predrag Kožul. _________(?) /No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7555	You have the right to suggest. _________(?) 143 [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Predrag Kožul, Borislav Bojić, and we need three. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7560	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2015-07-22-0.u7561	At the request of Zaim Backović, at the request of the Club, please pay attention, at the request of the DF Club and representative Zaim Backović, we repeat the vote on this item of the agenda. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. 32 votes for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Commission's report with the conclusions contained in it. We are going to the 28th agenda – Proposal for the conclusion of the BiH Club's MP, which reads as follows: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as an authorised proposing, asks the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for information on why the Proposal for Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH, which was adopted by the House of Representatives at its 7th session, held on 26.02.2015, has not yet been discussed by the House of People, nor by the competent Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations, although it is a mandatory point. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, 9 against, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I understand we've adopted the SBB's conclusion proposal. Points 29 and 30 are removed from the agenda. Let's go to point 31. – Giving consent to ratification of Appendix 2 of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission relating to the horizontal programme on nuclear safety and radiation protection under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 38 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Agreement referred to in point 31 of the agenda. And we have point 32. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Second Development Policy Loan) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Prepare to vote. 145 Vote now. 31 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions. Enough entity majority from both entities. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Loan Agreement (Second for the Development Policy of the Psoling Ambience) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you and conclude the 15th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned for 27 August 2015. If there is a need to hold a session and until then, the representatives should be at the disposition and the session will be held before that time, if necessary. That's it, thank you. Session completed at 9:35 p.m.
