ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Good morning, media officials, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:10:16]] Dear colleagues, there are 338 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome our colleague Sergei Vladimirovich Kuzminy. [[Applause]] I wish you health, success, strength, patience, and achievement of the goals you have set for yourself. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question, this. Wait, for what reasons, first let a colleague of yours take the oath. May I? Dear colleagues, on January 16, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Sanchenka Alexander Volodymirovic, who is included in the election list of the political party "Serve of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sanchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u2	Good morning, colleagues. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, about an hour of questions to the government. You all know that the Prime Minister of Ukraine wrote a letter to the President of Ukraine, and now the government is in consultation. So today, as such, there will be no "hours of questions to the government." [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Wait. Wait. As discussed at the Conciliation Council, it will be Foreign Minister Pristajko, and he will answer the questions that have been pointed out. Dear colleagues, you have it. You've already written with a replacement for the performance. I'll give it to you now, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's a statement from two factions replacing the break for the performance. Who will perform? "Trust" and "For the Future" are who's speaking? Dear colleagues, you'll find a way to identify yourself. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, you're either speaking, or let's count it at the time of the performance. No, it's been a while. Yes, yes, yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, trouble never separates, it only unites. Today, I'm speaking from two groups of Future and Trust, which have brought together all major districts and major MPs from Lviv to Lugansk, from Odessa to the sumstina. Today, just hear, people are suffering from the fact that they do not receive a salary. The slave is called someone who can pay for the utilities and food. The hut can't pay for either the utility station or the food. Imagine when people go to stores, the mom takes the baby and logs into the barn book -- there's nothing to buy boots. Imagine what a miner takes and gets, look, this coal. With this bumpy hammer, thousands of feet underground, we are given light, electricity, roads are being built for this money, and today in our country, thousands of feet [1,000 m] underground are poor. I speak today both from Igor Goose's Volina, and from Ephesus I speak from Donetsk, and from Volinz, and from Sukhov, and from the Magnificent, who were chosen on the border where miners work daily. And they're waiting here in Parliament for the Cabin to pay their wages. The miner's day didn't get the money. No money was given for the New Year. No money for Christmas. Please, let's get out of here! Give me the money next week. There's money. We voted in favour of the budget. Both "Trust" and "For the Future" call for immediate intervention by the President in the payment of wages to miners. We demand the development of the coal sector. That's enough coal to drive from America. It's enough to drive coal from Africa today. We can develop our energy. There are people who are smart enough to do this. Let's still take our heads and think about people, because people chose us, heard us, chose us. Imagine how people are suffering today, potatoes cost 5 bucks in the summer and 20 bucks in the fall, and in the winter, that's four times. Can a person afford it today? No, it's not. Let's take a bonus of one and a half billion dollars in Kobolev and give a billion 200 million dollars to miners. That'll be right. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, you have forgotten your belongings, please remove your belongings from the rostrum. Oleg Ivanovich, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please clean up. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not leave the Prime Minister here. Look, it's disrespect for those who clean the hall, respectable colleagues. It's your attitude towards those people who create conditions for you to work in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. I don't have a recess. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two MP factions asking to announce a recess for 30 minutes and to gather the heads of factions to hold a meeting under the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm calling it a ten-to-one break. I'd like the faction heads to meet you in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, there has been a meeting of Parliament’s leadership and all representatives of the MP factions and groups on issues related to our work today and some changes in the order of the day, sorry for the tautology. Now we're going back to our work on schedule. The Foreign Minister will now report to Pristajko Vadim Volodymyrovich on the subject that was identified during our Conciliation Meeting on Monday. Please be quiet in the hall, because an important question is the question of the tragedy that took place in Iran. The word is given to the minister of foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, distinguished nationals, good morning, good morning to all of you. I know that you have information that you receive constantly, especially from the media, and today we have the opportunity to communicate and find out the details that we really need in order to understand what happened, how we are doing with it, and what we are going to do with Iran. I want to start right away from meeting five foreign ministers. A mechanism that has been created that will allow us to hold Iran accountable and to complete all very difficult, very sensitive matters with our citizens. I agreed to talk to the Iranian minister yesterday, and we have a full relationship with Iran today, but together with these mechanisms, such as working together, a joint criminal investigation team. A group has also been formed in the United Nations to jointly consider increasing international pressure on Iran. So all the mechanisms you and I have in your hands to push, to get not only an apology, but all of them, including compensation for our citizens with you. Soon, I think a special representative of the Iranian government will arrive in Ukraine early next week with an official apology and explanation. We'll be able to meet him. You have a lot of questions. So if you don't mind, let's get right to the questions that are of interest to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u8	Let's get to the questions. Dear colleagues, please sign in. I suggest the next mode of work. Now we're writing down questions from factions, and then from the national MPs. Please sign up for the factions. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u10	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. On January 3, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged the Ukrainians to refrain from travelling to Iraq in view of the danger in the region. Were there the same recommendations of the President's Office, and why did the President go to Iran in such difficult situations? Also, who prepared the President's visas. To Oman, I'm sorry. Who was preparing the President's visas, and why was the visit so low? Why did not the President meet with the Minister of Culture of Oman because he had become the future Sultan? And how did the President cross the border, was it a charter, or was it a plane? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. Most of these questions should be put in the Office of the President and his team. In answer to the first part of the question, it is the duty of the Ukrainian Consular Service to warn our citizens, which are regions that are dangerous to citizens, to our business, to our people, to our aircraft. That is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs published this recommendation, warning our citizens to avoid, without any particular reason, Iran and Iraq. All other questions, I ask you to contact the Office of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u12	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u13	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please tell me, Mr. Secretary, a question of this nature. Was our Ukrainian aircraft one flying through this airspace, or were there other flights? And second of all. Ukraine can't help but take responsibility for the fact that the company itself can't fly out, someone gave her a command to fly out. And we knew before we killed the general, that today's tense situation is something that can still be shot. Who will be responsible for this? They should still be responsible in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u14	Thank you. Iran’s space was open, and all the flights that took place during that time were carried out. No airline has covered Iran and Iraq for its flights. At the same time, when it comes to responsibility, the responsibility for the closure lies with the land to which this airspace belongs. A warning of flight danger was not made by Iranian authorities. IT WAS prescribed NOTAM, a so - called aviation warning that did not provide for danger. Now we're working with our international partners to somehow improve this situation and probably take part of the initiative from companies that make the final decision in the absence of official warnings that make the final decision on flights. According to our information, one of the Western European companies deployed its aircraft, but only when it became known about the crash of a Ukrainian aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u15	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u16	Good afternoon! Vadim Volodymyrovich, please answer the question if possible. There's information that Iran doesn't want to broadcast black boxes that contain information from airplanes. Will this somehow affect the course of investigation and the ability of the Ukrainian side to find out the truth?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u17	Last night, I spoke to the Iranian Foreign Minister, who assured me that at present, as responsibility lies primarily with the Iranian authorities in the investigation, in any case, according to the Chicago Convention, the next algorithm of action is proposed. The joint investigation team, Iranian, Canadian, and we join it, will get access to the black boxes on the spot. Then separate "black boxes" is ready for the Iranian side to hand over to Ukraine. In principle, this is in line with international standards, although we still demand that we give them immediately to ensure the independence and objectivity of the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u18	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u20	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Good afternoon! Mr. Secretary, thank you for the ministry's work and for your visit to the committee. But the next question is not just about me but about many of our colleagues. It's obvious that many have parallels between MN17 and PS752. And we are all warned by the statements of world leaders and, in particular, Iran about the inadvertent collapse of a civilian aircraft. I am interested in the position of the State of Ukraine regarding inadvertentness. Are we still going to deny it and work out a position to deny such a statement and to try to minimize the amount in the media, in particular the words "inadvertent." We understand very well that it can be very negative in the legal plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u22	Thank you. I agree with you on the analogy between MN17 and this plane, our crashed. That is why the minister of foreign affairs of the Netherlands was invited to meet with the five ministers yesterday, who informed us of the investigation. We, Ukraine, don't have much to tell, we're part of the investigation, we know, but other colleagues who lost their citizens were supposed to know about the dangers that lie ahead. And you realize there's been an investigation for five years. During this time, the investigation team has received a very rich and vastly negative experience, including political values, political statements, the value of using political instruments such as United Nations resolutions, the use of civil aviation organizations, and all others. And, indeed, political warnings he has made that we are aware of. As for the "inadvertent" use of this term, we're not rejecting any of the versions that are. Now, with recognition by the Iranian side of guilt, these versions all narrow down to one main one. But on more than one occasion, a statement made publicly was not supported. We want to record recognition by the Iranian side of our guilt, recognition at the international level by a document. That's what they called for. The President's call to the president, we demand a special representative, we're going to violate this in the UN Security Council, and we're going to fix commitments that, from the moment we're fixed, we're going to go all the way to the end, including admitting guilt, compensation to the family and so on and so forth. Without fixing this moment, we want to be careful not to break the relationship with the Iranian side, which is now actually at the heart of Iran's political statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u23	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u24	Dear Vadim Volodymyrovich, we would like to thank you very much for the fact that, in times of stress, unlike the rest of the government, you have found time to come, to come to Parliament, as agreed at the Conciliation Council, and to answer these extremely important questions that concern the entire Ukrainian society today. I have a question of this nature. As we know, at the first hour of the tragedy that happened with the MAU plane, the Ukrainian Embassy in Iran made a statement that was quite ambiguous, in which it found the event to be a technical problem, not a problem that was caused by a missile crash by an Iranian PPO rocket. What was the reason for the statement made by the Ukrainian Embassy that was then taken off the site? Did the embassy have the authority to make statements that made further discussions more difficult because Ukrainian society was somewhat confused? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u25	Thank you. A fair observation. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I apologize for the embassy's actions. In fact, it was the first reaction in a state of shock to our embassies when they arrived at this place where our people died, where the plane was lost, where the remains of the plane, the bodies and everything else remained. The embassy made a small mistake by providing information received from the Iranian side, not stating that it was behind the information of the Iranian side. And in general, I agree with you, at this point in time, such a responsible statement would have to be held back. The only thing you're justifying is the fact that it was trying as quickly as possible to inform citizens, first of all, of those 11 of our citizens who died, as well as the foreign passengers that this tragedy occurred. We tried to solve this problem as quickly as possible, we took this statement off the embassy website and we were still much more cautious in our comments. Once again, I apologize to the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u26	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Minister. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It's a good thing you're making an assessment and apologizing for the ambassador's position and the embassy. But for me, a thorough service investigation is needed to ensure that all other ambassadors in other states are aware of the cost and consequences of such statements. That's clear. And the next question. It is indeed very sad that the Prime Minister, who has not yet been dismissed and not retired, did not consider it necessary to be present with you today when considering such a serious issue. I'd like you to evaluate as Foreign Minister whether there's an adequate price of human life offered by the Cabinet of Ministers as compensation, 200,000 dollars, which is equal to not even the monthly salary of some cabinet ministers who are ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u29	I'm sure the Prime Minister will join us. It's a matter of time. As for my embassy, once again, I ask you to understand the situation in which the fourth day of the embassy is currently operating. People don't sleep, they try to do everything they can to bring justice to families and solve all the issues right on the spot. As far as the money you're talking about is concerned. These costs are not compensation. This is a one - time stand - up to help our citizens who have lost their loved ones to solving specific issues. Compensation will come from insurance companies. And in the end, we demand compensation for both our family and our company's plane from the Iranian side. The president met twice with his family. Everyone met. All the questions are far bigger questions than this compensation. There are very painful human issues that we solve with each other as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 10 minutes left to ask the factions. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Papiev. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I didn't see. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I address, above all, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What happened today is an absolute disqualification. Why? Because today we have an hour of questions to the government. The government is actually sabotaging the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, although under the Constitution it is subordinate and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like you to remind the head of the government that according to article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the government is exercising its authority to appoint a new composition of the government. What happened today is the same as in 2014, when Viktor Fedorovich heard from Ukraine: the government has self - propelled itself. And it is with this formulation that we have to release and resign the government today. And what's happening today is that the minister who gets the biggest salary he's ever paid for morale when he wrote himself 300,000 wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u32	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, first of all, you know the Rules better than I do. And you know what you need to do, if you're still speaking and asking questions about a specific subject, about a specific subject. I am sure that your colleagues who met with the heads of factions and MPs have informed you that the government will be, solely in connection with the events that began in the morning, there is a delay. Let's also be correct in terms of everyone. This does not refer to the subject that was mentioned during the "hour of questions to the government" on the Conciliation Council. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u33	Please give Arthur Gerasimov the word. Who? Garasimov? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u34	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry for the work you have done now, especially with the families of those Ukrainians who have unfortunately died in this plane crash. But I have a very important question. As we know, any visit by the head of state to any other country takes place solely at the invitation of the head of that state -- once, he is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and he certainly has an official program. So the question is very simple. Please tell me, was there an invitation from the head of Oman to visit, show him? The second question. Please show us the official visit program, as well as the officials who are at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u35	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. These questions are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they were sent by your faction. I don't have these documents with me right now. I was getting ready to talk on our crashed plane. But we will answer you in time according to the MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u36	Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u37	Good afternoon, colleagues. I want to thank you, Mr. Minister, for your active and effective work, both on this catastrophe in Iran and on the relationship with the committee and Parliament. You keep coming, reporting, and working with us. Thank you. As for the question. In fact, on many occasions you spoke of the importance of Iran’s legal confession of guilt, has there been an appropriate appeal to Ukraine to confess? The second question. The results of your meeting with the foreign ministers of the countries that have suffered, or what agreement have you reached? And one more thing. Have all the dead Ukrainians been identified, and when will they return to their homeland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u38	Thank you. It's a matter of official recognition. At this moment, we have received an official recognition at President Iran's level, which he announced to our President in the course of a telephone conversation, and we are preparing another conversation with the Iranian President today. There was an official statement by the head of UPU Iran, who was published, you know, it's an official statement. At the same time, we have a fixation, I hope that this fixation will take place on Monday during a visit by a high Iranian delegation of the ministerial level to Ukraine. With regard to what was achieved at the meeting of five ministers. We've agreed to set up a formal group that will work to help our investigation bodies. And our Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General, has sent letters to all his colleagues who are involved, the citizens who have died, to create, to work together and to participate in the work of a special investigation team. Our group of ministers agreed to observe the work of all the bodies under investigation. Unfortunately, by analogy with MN17, we know that this work can take years. And just so that we don't lose control of the activities of all the working groups and organs, our group of ministers is going to meet and analyze the work from time to time and, let's say, direct it to the politically needed direction. This mechanism was involved between Australia and New Zealand and the Netherlands, it proved its effectiveness, we're going to use the established practice that it is. Our missions in the United States, in New York, have already made contact, and they are preparing proposals at the international level, how we will push Iran and demand responsibility for what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Vakarczuk Svetoslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give the word to Sergio Ivanovich Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u41	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry for the slight change in the subject, but I think this subject is worth it. 11 citizens of Ukraine died in this plane crash, this is a huge tragedy, but only in the last few days have four of our citizens died in Donbasa, and they continue to die. Six, I'm sorry. And that's a tragedy they're not talking about. And by large count, these are Ukrainian citizens who are also dying. You were talking about the progress made by the Ukrainian side in the talks in "minish" and "normal" format. What progress, from your point of view as minister, should our people stop dying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u43	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u44	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u45	I'm like you, I understand, sorry, please no, I'm not leaving this question, I agree with you absolutely. The only progress I expect is that Russia will leave us alone and liberate our territories, we will be able to restore peace in the territory of the only Ukraine. This is the only progress we're working for. We can't do it right now, so we have to move from one point to the other. The liberation of our people, the separation of armies, and the cessation. less shelling -- each of these issues is painful, not enough, but this is a small step that we hope will allow us to build a base to get the final result that we all want to achieve with you. If we're to make sure that this path doesn't give us the final definite result that we're talking about with you, we need to make a decision with you that this path doesn't work, we need to look for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u46	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u48	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u49	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, as you are doing today's practical role as Prime Minister in this room, I would like to address you as Prime Minister. The first question is gas coefficients, and how can you solve this general problem? Please take a stenographer and check today who benefits from the oligarchs at the gas coefficients and give an answer to the Ukrainian people. The second question. As long as you're in Norman format, you can solve the question of opening the crossings of Milova-Churtkova, Dimino-Alexandrovka, Blagovishchenka, Triochizbenka, opening the bridge in Happiness, which can spread the transition of 14,000 people who die at this transition to the station-Lugana region. And the opening of "Golden One." Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u50	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister will now, I will not measure his hat, he will come and answer your questions professionally, the questions you have. Regarding the discovery of additional areas, yesterday our party offered three new transition areas, which we call humanitarian ones. They're all about solving the humanitarian issues that you've called, making life easier for people on both sides of the touch line. The question of discovery itself must be accepted at least so that these people who use the services do not become targets of fire. To do that, there's some agreement on both sides of the touch line, and that's what our group is working on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u52	Counselor, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u53	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! It's the Fatherland faction, Nadjajchenko. We ask for answers to such questions. Question one. How many Ukrainians died in a plane crash today, a state for this hour, nine days and five hours after the crash have been identified? The other one. When will the bodies of Ukrainian citizens who died in a plane crash be returned to their relatives ’ burial places? Question three. What compensation does the Ukrainian authorities have for citizens and the Ukrainian air carrier? Question four. When will these compensations be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u54	Thank you. The same short answers. All Ukrainian citizens are identified. Today, it will be announced when the bodies of Ukrainian citizens are shipped to Ukraine. It just needs a little technical............................................................................................................................ The maximum compensation available today will be announced. All Ukrainian 11 citizens, all identified bodies. Consular proceedings are being completed, and they are certain – you know what consular actions should be used – these actions are used, particularly documentaries. Besides identifying, there are some other documentary things that our consuls are currently working in Iran. As far as compensation is concerned. Now the legal team and our carrier, and the Legal Department of Foreign Affairs team, the Justice Department are working with lawyers who represent both the insurance company and the Iranian authorities. Our demands are high. We'll see what we can do, but the basics are the requirements that are described in the Montreal Convention, and we can look at it. In addition to that, as you know, this money that has been said to the government is a separate one, what will be given to the government of Ukraine. This has nothing to do with compensation. We'll try to get this job done as quickly as possible. So far, there has been some positive interaction with the Iranian government. I hope this doesn't take too long for our families. We're working on it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a statement by the deputies. To be asked by the deputies. It's been ten minutes. Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Oli Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u57	Again, who? Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, a respected prime minister in the Supreme Council Hall, and there is already a Prime Minister. Great. Then my question will be with you both. Ukraine, with its woes, came out of the gas contract situation with Gazprom. I welcome the fact that we have resolved this issue. But our energy problems have a very specific diplomatic dimension and I would like to hear the minister's professional opinion on the idea of introducing a special energy-authorized diplomat. How are we going to develop and solve the whole issue with the European Union, because today, I see some documents are signed by one minister, another by another by a second minister, a part by NAC by Naftogaz, even by the officers of the President's Office. Please tell us who's in charge of diplomacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you. I think, in principle, we have order. We know how, who defines, starting with the Supreme Council, who runs the diplomatic service, the President, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the minister who implements this foreign policy. With regard to those who sign documents, you know the difference between the host entities who make these directly-owned contracts and the work carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, primarily by the Minister of Energy through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This work is carried out in accordance with our international obligations, we are working within the Tripartite Group together with the European Union, and there are negotiations at the bilateral level. You know these negotiations, we already have the Prime Minister, and I think the Minister of Energy will be able to answer your specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u60	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I want to return to the matter of the airplane's death. Question one. Taking into account, apart from the official statements, the situation with the black boxes, taking into account the actual non-admission of Ukrainian experts to the rest of the aircraft, taking into account the overall position of the Iranian side, can we at present talk about some opposition to the establishment of all the circumstances of the Iranian plane's loss? That's the first question. And the second question. What is the position of our ministry regarding Iran's inclusion in the international commission, as a first and foremost interested party, in investigating the circumstances of this incident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. Yes, we all morally understand and feel the guilt of Iran. Now, at last, they've admitted this guilt, and we're doing much more effectively. Hopefully, this will shorten the time. But the question of trust is not, we're talking about formalizing all those statements, all the steps that we're going to take, then we're going to be able to assess with you whether there's really a full interaction. As far as interaction is concerned right now. I want to admit that at the professional level that our embassy in Iran is currently observing, Iranian experts are interacting fully, full day and night, and doctors are working to identify bodies. We got all the rest of the plane we could find. Our team is working in the hangar, and it has all the tools, taps, everything needed to reconstruct the body of the plane and determine the circumstances. There are engines, there's everything you need to do. A clean and secure place where all the bodies are gathered. So the professionals who work with our people, and the team, they interact, they help as much as possible. You and I must now have a mind to acknowledge the political and responsibility of the political top of Iran. Moreover, we do not talk about what is specific, whose. Which of the soldiers pressed the button. No, that is not enough, and this has been stated from the outset. Not about the soldier who pressed the button, but about the whole team who gave the command, who allowed the hit, who, whose particular mistake is at the highest level. When speaking to President Iran, they were told that we also remember that most people are Iranian citizens, and it was ensured that for the sake of life, for the sake of the memory of Iranian citizens, the Iranian government should conduct this investigation and bring responsibility to the guilty. Let's see how they do it on their own. Our position is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u63	Thank you. National MP Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Batenku Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u65	Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u66	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, we see, appeared in the Supreme Council of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We don't want to welcome him, we want to have the same opportunity to ask him a question, let me comment on this fair and non-faithy resignation and this disrespect for parliamentaryism as an institution of power by its ownignor and with the government all today's "government hours" because he's arrived at the request of the heads of factions and MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Vadim Volodymyrovich, in the context of this, I have a question. Do you think today, at this stage, the Russian Federation is in some way forcing the Ukrainian authorities to put the issue of changes to the Constitution in part of decentralization, special status and so forth? And how is preparations now for the next phase of the Normandy meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u67	Thank you. The Russian side has never hidden its desire for change to suit their wishes. We have with you our own vision of our development and our own desires. Our job is to get out of the war with the least of our expenses, including all the tools that we have available, especially the political instruments. From us, from our interaction, from our understanding of how we plan to develop, and from our final answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u68	Alexander Rafkatovich Abdullin. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u69	Dear Vadim Volodymyrovich, I have two questions, one directly related to this subject. How far do you think today has moved forward precisely in the evidence base of the mindlessness of those who directed this rocket? Because you understand perfectly what this will mean in terms of compensation, confessions, and everything else. And the second question in the continuation of the question is Battenka. Please tell me the elections in the temporarily occupied area, but would you like a clear answer, possible if the occupying forces were there and there was no control over the Ukrainian-Russian border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u70	First question. In order to ensure our confidence with you in the justice of the investigation and that, indeed, those responsible for taking responsibility will be held accountable, we need our investigation team to participate in the investigation, particularly in Iran. To this end, our prosecutor's office made a request, and I heard this request yesterday, confirmed on behalf of the State of Ukraine, in a conversation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Iran. They need to make a decision and let us know if they invite our prosecution to become part of the investigation group. From this point on, I'll be ready to talk to you about whether we can guarantee at least one way, that our immediate questions, our concerns, have the answer needed there on Iranian soil. Until now, of course, we have doubts about any investigation conducted by the Iranian side. As for the elections that may take place in the territory now occupied by Ukraine. In my personal opinion, it is not possible to talk about fair elections under those conditions and others that are now. And this is the position, if you remember, that we've provided in the so-called Steinmeyer formula, that the definition of justice that will take over the OSCE (BDIPL) is the body that gives an assessment to elections around the world, including in Ukraine. I had a conversation with management. THE OSCE, who said that under such conditions, they do not realize how fair and fair elections can be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u71	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you regarding the situation of compensation to the families of the lost pilots, the crew, as well as the passengers of the Ukrainians when our plane crashed in Iran. The question is the following. Do you plan to take the initiative as a foreign minister before the government to review the amount of 200,000 that Ukrainian citizens, crew members, and passengers were appraised of their lives? Would it still be worth looking at these sums, given the resonance of this event at the same time? And another question. Speaking of the situation with wages and bonuses that we are going to discuss as a second topic, don't you think it would be worth accepting by the government to submit to Parliament one Act on Paying and Publicly and transparently resolve the issue of pay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleague, I think you just missed, first of all, we've already discussed this, and I said so. But I thank you for this opportunity to say it again. 200,000 dollars, which the government, that's not compensation. What is more, is there anything that can compensate for the lives of the dead in general? And we met two families. Well, believe me, it's about money in the last place. This is a one - time help to accomplish certain things, and you can see what things the government is now providing to these families. The compensation is much more, incomparably larger, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Ministry of Justice will be kicked out of insurance companies, as well as in time from the Iranian side. By the way, not just people's lives, but even the plane that died in that crash. As far as government salaries are concerned. I think it's a topic, despite the pain, and what it is now in the media, is probably the way we have to go to evaluate ourselves, how we as a state are willing to pay for services, including government officials and everything else. That imbalance that exists now, it's all going to have to be resolved sooner or later. And the ministers' salary of 16,000 dollars is disrespect for our state, and that's the way to get these crazy percentages of bonuses and something else out. I think we should honestly look at how much each of us pays for our work. When we say that some judges or some people still get hundreds of thousands of dollars, and you're still counting on ministers to work for 16,000 dollars, that means we're cheating on ourselves, and this is a matter that needs to be resolved as quickly as possible. This discussion is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u74	Thank you, Vadim Vladimirovich. Time for questions to the minister of foreign affairs is running out. Thank you for your answers. The speech is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Hončaruk Oleksija Valeriyovich. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u75	Thank you, colleagues. First of all, I want to apologize that the government is late for "the hour of questions to the government." This has to do with my decision that I have made today. I went to the President of Ukraine, you know that, and I handed him my resignation application. It was drafted in accordance with the law, to the Constitution of Ukraine, written in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, and the President has the right to bring it to Parliament at any time. What does this have to do with anything? This involves us being one team. We've all come to Parliament, in power to change the country thanks to this man, thanks to Vladimir Alexander Zelenski. We all respect him. And it's a principle for us to trust within the team by a hundred percent. In recent times, there has been a large number of information attacks, manipulations, about the government. The aim of these attacks and manipulations is to sow disunity inside the team, to create an idea that someone doesn't respect the President. That's not true. Our strong position is that we are one team, and we want to stay. Therefore, the Ukrainian government continues to operate on a state-of-the-art basis until the President decides on which position a large team can operate. This is the political decision we expect from the leader of our political power. Dear friends, dear faction, I am very grateful for the work that has already been done. We've done a lot of things with you to make the Ukrainians live better this year. We're willing to do a lot more with you. But to do that, we need to be the only one. I thank you very much for the support I have received today, and I suggest you continue in the same spirit. You're cool, you're the future of this country. Together, we'll do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Time for questions to the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. No, there is no statement in my name. Dear colleagues, it has been said that this is a political statement, and "the hour of questions to the government," the time of "the hour of questions to the government" is exhausted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's not an hour of questions to the government. If necessary, next time we invite the Prime Minister, and he will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda, back to our work. Dear colleagues, you can have it. No, no procedure, dear colleagues. There are no questions from the procedure, Ivan Ivanovich. Let's move on to the agenda. It's gonna be a big one. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I have a question. We have requests from the national MPs, today is the last day of the session, please tell us we have 30 minutes to do this, but as practice shows, we are not getting there. There are about 300 questions. 340 questions. There's an offer today to cancel the Difference, and this is the time to ask questions, from 13 to 14. Yet, dear colleagues, I have a request that this should not happen, as always, that everyone is up and gone. Today, the closing session, today, will sound like the State Hymn of Ukraine. So please, if you don't mind. There's a denial. On this issue, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Heroceno. I see. Out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that our country is called Ukraine, not the Russian Federation. It is in the Russian Federation that the Prime Minister writes a statement in the name of the President. In Ukraine, according to the Constitution, the Prime Minister does not refer to the President's courier to submit an application if he wants to resign, but to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like to ask you, Your Honor Mr. Head, we support the demand, your suggestion that all requests be made. We suggest you take 45 minutes, 30 minutes for "Rose." But unfortunately, we have to say that on the Conciliation Council, all the factions agreed that the Prime Minister of Ukraine would answer the questions, including regarding the payments that are now being made, the government, which has already been tired for four months, has counted, and he has even escaped these questions. What's going on? We refer to you as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, demanding respect for the Constitution, respect for the Rules, respect for parliamentaryism, and now return here to the Prime Minister who has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u78	Irina Volodymyrna, let's tell the truth. We didn't discuss this on the Conciliation Board. You can pick up the transcript. We really talked about this during our work in the hall. Yet, from what we have today, the schedule of work has changed quite a bit, and we are out of the possibilities that we have. Many questions, many questions, many other questions. It's time for the show. The time laid down by the Rules of Procedure for "the Hour of Questions for the Government" is long overdue, and you know it, too, we've taken a break. Dear colleagues. I'll give it to you. I have one more question. Please tell me, how will the hall react to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30? [[Noise Nodes]] Let me now give the word to Vlasenko, one of the factions, and then I'll put these two questions to the vote. And the colleagues came up, and I'm proposing to conclude our session, before the session closes, to ask this question, I'm the Black Lady with a motive. Is there a Chernev in the hall? Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think the Motherland faction will object to canceling the Vulnerable. Few things that don't allow a question to be asked by the Prime Minister are that there are absolutely incomprehensible claps of monofractions in the room to the person who said that our President has a mist in his head and a void. So I guess that's what they're applauding right now? Let's use "Variance" to discuss this farce that this man, who is still Prime Minister today, has set us up here. She came out, made a slogan, some kind of misunderstanding with whom. Where does he want to connect? Does he want to join in the void or in the mist? Or how they fool the President without knowing how to explain why the dollar's artificial rate is falling and the economics are falling. Let's talk about this. Let's maybe just post requests on the Supreme Council website under the ad hoc procedure and take some time to do that. But we need to discuss what the Prime Minister has just done.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u80	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u81	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, our parliamentary group "For the Future" is surprised by the conduct of the Prime Minister of Ukraine under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential country. By showing respect for the President of Ukraine, in which we have no doubt, especially after his last audio report, we do not understand the disrespect of the Ukrainian Parliament as the country's highest legislative body. It was from your initiative, Dmitri Alexanderovich, that this week that the government heard part of the prize's salaries, which are resonant with the salaries that ordinary citizens of Ukraine receive. And we didn't listen to these reports from the government of Ukraine. I think it's a demonstration of direct disrespect for our legislative institution, Parliament. And we demand the return of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and we demand the lifting of the "Victory" so that we can discuss this situation at the level of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u82	Mr. Chernev, for reasons, for the procedure, also for the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I ask you to include in the agenda today an important application for Vitaly Markov. I think everyone knows, this is our National Guard, who was sentenced to 24 years in Italy. Why today? Because in February of this month, there will be an appeal. And we have to ask the Italian Republic that it was impartial, unbiased, and objective. I'm asking you to put this question in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u84	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. After that – Shahov, then we go to the vote. Rachmanin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I support the offer of a colleague of Czernjev to bring the Supreme Council's statement concerning Markiv into the agenda of the day. And a second offer. Order for violation by the Russian Federation of the Interpol Statute. It is also a statement that has long been in place and will not go to the Supreme Council. Whether we're looking at "Variance" or not, I insist that we consider these two statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u86	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u87	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Regrettably, the whole of Kabmin was taking a nap from this Parliament today, not answering the questions of the majority and all the members of the Supreme Council for the problems that are present in the country today. First of all, it's a salary that's paid by millions of people all over Kabmin, and it's again and again, Naftogazu, Kobolev, 1.5 billion dollars that can be paid to miners who don't get paid and work with that kind of tool. Next. This is the closure of schools and hospitals in all districts that are now awaiting government assistance. It's also a problem with the gas accounting coefficients. The gas was not cheap at all, but it began to cost, even though the world today is cheap. In winter, we receive subsidies from people today, not from a government that has to answer questions. Thank you. Please take the transcript and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u88	Thank you. People's MP Papiew, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues, you know, what happened today at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, may it be on your conscience. We will make any decision that the majority supports. Today, however, the foreign minister did not answer my question about the immorality of receiving such wages to government members. I call today, and our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" calls for the entire government's composition to return to the government's government's budget unwarrantedly paid salaries and charged 300, 400,000 dollars. And that's the money we're offering to target oncological children. I urge the government to do moral work, because today, in the face of a poor country, it is not possible to do poverty eradication for government members alone. And when the Prime Minister of Ukraine said that the life of the Ukrainians had gotten better today, I realized that he had put all the Ukrainians who had become better into the government. We call for a return to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have made proposals by the Head of the Supreme Council to cancel the break and the Miscellaneous in the format that we were told to conduct through the announcement of parliamentary requests. A proposal was also made for a Markiv ruling and a proposal that applied. from our colleague Rachmanin. Dear colleagues, can I ask these questions together? Dear colleagues, these are all procedural proposals we can offer, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question. I'm telling you what again. Question one: canceling the break from 12 to 12:30 so that we have time to work. The other one. Let's vote on the break. Canceling the break from 12 to 12:30. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm talking to my colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats. I'll bet the vote on cancelling the break from 12 to 12:30. Please support and vote. [[11:51:33]] For 229 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The next question is the question of how to conduct "Variance" in the format that was proposed, and when it comes to issuing parliamentary requests in order to be able to complete the parliamentary questions at this session. I'll put it to the vote. Please support and vote. Ask us to do it now. [[11:52:18]] For 225 "Variance" is not supported. Well, "Rose" with questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u91	Wait. Dear colleagues, I'll explain. It's procedural. Listen to me, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'll go on. Your questions won't. We take questions, we don't look, right? And we're listening to "Crazy." [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Which factions to go back to the last question, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I get it. Wait, so we're not taking it, we're leaving "Crazy"? [[B in m in s a l in]] Shall we take a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, there is another suggestion: to leave half an hour at the Vizne, then vote. No, that's another offer, so I can put it to the vote. Then vote on the two decrees that Cherniev spoke of. Yeah, we're cutting "Victane" by half an hour. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer like that, yeah. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to cut half the time spent on "The Difference." [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, when we did this to you, you didn't mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] And now you can go against it, and the decision is made neither by me nor by you, but by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to propose a 30-minute cut in the heading "Victory." Please support and vote. [[11:55.]] For 234 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the people" - 229, non-factional - 5. Thank you. Decision taken. The others are 0. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the last question is the inclusion of two different rulings, right? Will there be no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Two orders: Markiv's order, and they asked questions about Interpol. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go back to these questions a little bit later when the position is agreed on. Thank you. Then let's get to work, let's go back a little bit later. Dear colleagues, you are invited to attend. I mean, dear colleagues, we've been asking questions since the 13th. With no fifteen, give me 13 to 1:30, and then it'll be 30 minutes. Right? And then we close the session. The request is not to be dispersed. Do you have a deal? Now it's a matter of order. No, we can't all go through. As long as we go by 12:45. You have an order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 14.01.2020 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft law of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other laws of Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. Can we vote without discussion? Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Eugene Nina Petrovna. I would like to remind you that the issue is being addressed by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u92	Your Honorary Presidium, Your Honor, it means that during this period of time, since January 14th, after the adoption of Law 2318-1, you have never read the business's responses to what was adopted in the hall. So I would suggest that you pay attention to the main provision, the footnote and the conclusions given by the Chief Legal Authority and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I reiterate that four or five standards of law we have adopted are in complete violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. This law will have only negative consequences, to be brought before the courts, in the Constitutional Court. In addition, we will expect appeals to Ukraine and to the European Court of Human Rights, taking into account the amendments we have adopted regarding the release of humans. So I'm drawing your attention to the main points that have been taken up is that the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine do not provide for the use of different legal means of redistributing powers between the executive authorities to which they refer, in particular, the granting and delegation of powers. Applying the concept of "delegated powers" in the context of the proposed law is unclear and will cause difficulties in applying it. In addition, a clear violation of the Constitution's rules on what customs is doing, operating in the territory and within one or more administrative and territorial units, will lead ten customs officers, people, for example, to listen to the city of Hmelnicki, hop customs, formed and joined by three other customs officers. Calling the people who work there is the "ministers of the people," those.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u93	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u94	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee today reviewed the draft Order repealing the Supreme Council decision (registration 2318-1-P). Following part of article 48 of the Rules of Procedure, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Decree and decided to recommend to Parliament that it should be decided by a vote on whether or not it should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need? Sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u96	Please give Ironman the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u97	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we voted in favour of this bill. We think it's worse than it's been on duty. But let's give it a chance to finally reform. Let's see if, I'm sure there will be voices in this room to correct those little mistakes that we might make in time. But not doing anything is the worst. We will therefore vote against the repeal of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u99	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u101	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. We are now making the biggest mistake we have been able to make in the last 28 years. Customs, which provides more than 50 revenue, tax revenue, to the budget, have now suffered the most as a result of this law. I wanted to give you an example. Hmelnicki Customs, where since the 15th year, there has been a clear trend towards increasing and external economic activity and declarations, and coming into the budget. Compared to 2018, the number of declarations increased by 42 percent -- people started working in white. From now on, the Hmelnick region, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, the area, The local authorities have asked you, national deputies, not to do so, because it depends on how depressed the city is going to be, which now suffers from having very few taxpayers left. Even the fact that customs officers will no longer pay VAT to the hop budget is the loss of 5 million dollars. Dear colleagues, think of it as a way to reform customs, make improvements, but you can't do mindless things, you don't have a plan "B." What will happen next? You're hoping for the experience of an inexperienced person, who you're now allowing even a position to delegate the authority of the state over customs policy, incomprehensiblely, how to define 15 customs instead of 25. This is the biggest mistake. If someone seems to have to do something, at least more or less the right thing to do. Destroying the customs we've been fighting for the last five years to make it independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u104	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Before we go directly to the draft decision, I would like to draw attention to what we discussed here today in this room, we had the Prime Minister here today, and I just saw so much joy from what we're doing here, and what we're doing. So I would like to point out that the results of the activity and the Cabinet of Ministers and the ruling majority have a very specific expression. And the results of those draft laws that you voted and voted during this session. They poured into a minus 6.9 drop in industrial production, a failure to implement the income portion of Ukraine’s budget in 2019 for almost 100 billion dollars, primarily from customs payments, a negative balance in trade balance -- minus 9.4 billion dollars, which is a negative balance of payments, into a record debt of over 3 billion dollars. I can count these figures for a very long time. But unfortunately, these are the results of your, first of all, and ours as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we have them. And I want to say, since 2016, this is the worst economic situation we've had since this year. So if we keep moving along with these primitive things and make these reforms, we will be getting deeper into the economic or economic stagnation that exists today. And what's the worst and most important. We have serious losses, minus 350,000, that's unemployment, that's what we got in 2019. This is already the result of your work, and that is why I urge you to support this draft decision. And for the future, too, when drafting laws primarily advocate national economic interests and, most importantly, the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u105	Motovlover Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u106	I'm pretty surprised which customs we have to protect. Your Honor, we're creating a new customs office. For the time being, 100 tax collectors have been released from the lion’s customs, who are officially millionaires. At an average wage of 30,000 dollars, they are officially millions. You will not stop customs reform, you will not stop the change in this country. We will not support this decree, the law will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u107	Alona Ivanovna Skrum with a motive. After that, Shahov and then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, we'll be voting in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u108	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, you know, this is exactly the order, and after this bill, I wanted to ask the government and the Prime Minister today. Unfortunately, I was denied such an opportunity, and the Prime Minister did not accept any questions by being an hour late for the "hour of questions to the government." Sadly, that was the case. You know, Mr. Cabinet of Ministers, Mr. Dubilet recently said that we should stop this zoo premium of 100, 200, 300 percent for government officials. And I completely agree. But this law, which, unfortunately, has been passed and the decision after which I propose to cancel, just sets seven new bonuses for customs officials. Colleagues, seven new bonuses without any limit: 100, 200, 300, 500 percent. You don't regulate it. So I think that at least in this part of the bill would have to be repealed, and I'm going to ask the President to make this commitment in this part of the law. And you know, 10 minutes that I have. Ten seconds left. There are different trumpets and crises in the country, but it's important how we get out of these crises. And I think it's very important that we always go out with dignity and a high head. And what happened today in the room without an hour's notice to the Prime Minister and the government on such important issues is disrespect for us, for each of you, for every Ukrainian and for ourselves. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Oh, I'm sorry, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Let's move on to the vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u110	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we can cancel even though all the laws that officials don't start to work if customs don't start working for the Ukrainian people who pay them their wages today don't change anything. The MP's "Trust" group asked for the agenda to put out a lot of the bills that we've prepared. No, only the majority enforce their laws. We were talking about the new year's hole coming in at 35 billion 300 million dollars just for underpayment from customs -- everyone's silent. We demand an immediate audit of the entire customs office. Why is there no income in Ukraine today, and why are teachers, doctors, children, miners without wages suffering today? Why did 175 thousand Ukrainians leave the country today and have no jobs? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote, dear colleagues. My dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote, the committee has not identified itself and is offering to do so. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14.01.2020 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some other Ukrainian laws in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (registration number 2318-1-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[12:10:31]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 2751). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:11:12]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote this out without discussion. Okay. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich. Reports the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics of Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u112	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national deputies, the regulatory committee at its meeting discussed the matter, the draft Decree (registration 2751). And the Regulatory Committee has decided to adopt a draft regulation, recommending to Parliament the adoption of a draft decision in general, taking into account the Committee's observations, namely: to put forward paragraphs 2, 3 of paragraph 1 of the draft in the following wording: "To recall Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich from the post of head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation according to his statement. Choose the Network of Alexander Alexandrovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, the Political Party 'Serve of the People's Party', the Head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, freeing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Legal Policy." In the rest of the draft regulation, please support, as well as the ruling as a whole, with the committee's comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u115	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we are glad that this decree has the same effect on the right of our colleague Vladimir Vátrović to work on the committee he has chosen. We call on the majority, to the leadership of the Supreme Council to similarly implement the right of several non-factional deputies who still do not work on any of the committees, even though they have made the relevant statements, and we ask the regulatory committee to consider it. Of course, we want the new head of the parliamentary committee to work more actively to ensure that the committee creates an appropriate atmosphere, and we strengthen our ability to shape Ukraine's foreign policy, to help inter-parliamentary delegations, to demonstrate an active position here. You know, of course, I'm going back to today's disgraceful case with the government. In 28 years, I can say this with absolute responsibility, Ukraine's independence was the first time that a government in its entirety as a collective body did not appear to Parliament for an hour of questions to the government. I'm sorry, the Supreme Council Rules have a report, "the hour of questions to the government," not to the minister. It's also an absolute disgrace when the Prime Minister of Ukraine thanks us for the government, the President, and not the people of Ukraine who elected this Parliament, which means giving the government a delegation, and saying that the sun is coming down because the Bank's includes, you know, green light. It's just a shame that society has been misled and 73 percent voted in favour of a team that doesn't even find words of gratitude to the people who delegated this right to represent the best Ukrainian people in the world. And what we've heard today from the government, that the sun rises and sits just because of the Bank, not the people, that when the people promised to deal with them, that when in conditions where the war is not over and the OSS is in operation, the government is throwing out applications that they're blackmailing, essentially, and the monotonousness, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u117	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u118	I'd like to give a word to my colleague, the Trust Group, Mikoli Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u119	I'm gonna go upstairs. Grandma? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u120	Honorable Chairman and Honourable Deputies! The "Trust" Group will not support this draft decision because we believe that the issue of committee functions today in the Supreme Council needs to be resolved in a comprehensive manner. The 11 members of the Supreme Council are not yet distributed by committee. Today, five months later, one of the members of the "Trust" group, Ivanchuk, still cannot enter into his duties as a national deputy on the committee, in direct violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of National Deputies. In addition, for a month now, as the "Trust" group was created, and until today, to violate article 81 of the Rules, the "Trust" group has no representation in the leadership of the committees. I'm addressing the chairman, please take note of the comments, please include Ivanchuk in the committee. Also, please note that the Trust Group is not represented in the governing boards. Moreover, with the opportunity now, we will now vote for the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there is no work going on in inter-parliamentary cooperation groups. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee to pay attention to this and to engage actively in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, unfortunately or fortunately, we have a practice that we do not change our vote either in the decree or in the bill. That's the first one. The other one. As far as committee management is concerned. This quota principle was introduced during the work of the preparatory parliamentary group and management positions were allocated between those MP groups or self - promotion groups that delegated their representatives to it. I'm sorry, but that's the situation. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. No, I'm sorry, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u122	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we wanted to vote selectively on the latter, who should be included in the committees, who should not be included. We do have a number of national deputies who are unable to exercise their authority because their applications have not been considered at the right time. Moreover, it is in principle for us to be a Parliament. And what is happening today in a number of committees is a matter for which Parliament itself should take responsibility. And even today's issue from which the government fled, namely, wages, bonuses. If the government does not take the appropriate legislative initiative, Parliament and the relevant committees should prepare it because it will end with an explosion. In a country where the postman and the manager of Crucifixion are paid wages and bonuses, thousands of times different when the boards of directors pay salaries, actually performing their duties once a month, one month a year, tens of times more than the people responsible for their lives for health, for order in the streets. I think that this is a matter that should be immediately entrusted to both the heads of the committees and should be an initiative directly to the entire Parliament in order to resolve this issue. I think we need to resolve once and for all the questions about transitions, the beginning of the committee's work, and never come back to that again when for months they can't carry out their duties as Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u123	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Antonina Slavicka, "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, you should probably welcome such effective work in the Governing Council's district when after almost three months of the incident that took place, a disgraceful incident that did not reinforce our international positions, with the head of the International Cooperation Committee, we are finally considering this decision in the session room today even after the insistence of all opposition factions. You know, we also consistently speak out so that the human resources issues on the committees will be resolved in a complex way, even though positions and today's decision are not shared to the full, we will vote for and support this decision. Opposition Platform for Life will vote in favour of Decree 2751. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u126	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" also believes that there can be no member of the Supreme Council in Parliament who is simply wandering the Parliamentary Hall, not working on any committee. And this question needs to be settled once and for all. At the same time today, we are solving the final question of one of the key committees of the Supreme Council on external work. And I want to say, under all circumstances, that this committee was headed by a professional and patriotic man. And we will also monitor how the new committee head will meet the criteria of state, professional and patriotic, and uncompromising with regard to our enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Vice-Presidents, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Appeal Committees (registration No. 2751). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:22:14]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you. I wish you success in your new positions with my colleagues. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. We need 226 votes of support to put this issue in the agenda. Please support and vote. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:22:58]] For 262 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to address this issue at this plenary session and to take a decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:23:23]] For 263 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:23:43]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bezgin Vitali Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, let's get a little faster so we can get through a few more important questions. Three more questions, and after that, the decisions we talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u128	Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, there is hardly any doubt that decentralization reform is a priority for both Parliament and the government in 2020. However, this reform has a clear deadline that is due to the October local elections. And in fact, if we don't want our local self-government to exist in two parallel dimensions, one that is made up of communities, and the other we need to move in that direction from uncombined villages and villages. This short but important bill is specifically called for to overcome both a certain legislative gap and to start moving in that direction. In general, our initiative consists of three proposals, which are proposed to define the term “administrative centre of the territorial community”, the territory of the territorial community, and to empower the government to introduce laws on the establishment and liquidation of areas. It is worth noting that during the committee’s consideration, the initiative was supported by all the deputies and supported by all associations representing local self - government bodies. We hope that we will receive the same support in the meeting room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u129	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, and Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u130	Honourable Heads, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting on 15 January reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (Registration No. 2653), introduced by a group of national deputies. The bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which proposes to introduce the concept of the administrative centre of the territorial community and the territory of the community. And also authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to adopt the Law on the Administrative and Territorial System of Ukraine, to identify the administrative centres and territories of the territorial communities and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft legislative acts on the establishment and liquidation of areas. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (registration No. 2653) (imposed by a group of national deputies) on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Write two in a row, two in a fraction. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u133	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. It's a really good idea, but as always, there's something vague about good ideas, as they say, or not very clear. So I have a question for the next act. I have the impression that this is a bill that wanted to be drafted for the amendment of the Constitution to the part of decentralization. Because, first of all, we don't have any definition in the Constitution of the administrative system. You look at article 92, paragraph 13, and you won't see the word "administrative." It's just in that project that's already been called off. That's the first one. The other one. Friends, I think it's very creative to think that, you know, someone is going to figure out where the infrastructure is, and on the basis of that, to determine the center of the community, well, it's kind of rhetorical, is it possible to write these things in laws at all. And in the end, it's important. You predict that the issue of eliminating border changes and creating areas can only be considered in the session hall if the relevant bill has been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What's that? Friends, we have 93 articles of the Constitution, where we have equal rights subjects of the legislative initiative: the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the national deputies of Ukraine. You're also correcting the standard of article 93 of the Constitution, which is in direct contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm sorry that this bill was not considered by the Committee on Legal Policy because we would have recognized it as contrary to the Constitution in this part. In view of these circumstances, we cannot vote for him now. We need to hold back, go to work, and await the conclusion of our committee. I can assure you that if we allow such beauty to happen now, we will come to the point that we will not, in principle, need decentralization in the Constitution to change. You're going through these transitional positions, in fact, you're going to change completely differently the standards that are now there. Please do not allow such gross violations of the Constitution in legislation. And that's why we can't vote for him right now, we can just hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u135	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u136	I give the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u137	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we really need to understand for now that to complete the process of decentralization and reform of local self-government through the Constitution in the way that it was proposed by the President and supported by a majority over the past few weeks, we cannot. That is why we have every effort by our Parliament to ensure that, within the framework of legislative changes, new legislative initiatives ensure the completion of decentralization in the country. This bill actually proposes one of these stages. We still have to bring all communities into line with decentralization processes. We have to go to the next local election in the 20th year with a single map, with the only approach. And we must avoid the politicization that we often see in Parliament. It is essential that all legislative initiatives be the consensus of all political factions and groups for the future and that there is sufficient time to support and speak them. This legislative initiative is one of the good examples where this discussion was, and that's why the Voice faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. The reform of decentralization is one of the few reforms in our country that are moving and even producing some success. So according to our MP group, we need to be very careful about the authority of the local self-government authorities in order to preserve the state's current decentralization rate. And this bill, it is ambiguous, it is, on the one hand, proposed to empower the Cabinet of Ministers to identify both the administrative centres and the territories of our territorial communities and, more importantly, to enable the Cabinet to form and decommission areas. Such a proposal by legislators is justified by the fact that the proposed changes will allow, in very short time, the boundaries of the territorial communities to be determined and the areas of Ukraine formed. But let us not forget the fundamental principles of the independence of local self - government. And, on the one hand, ignoring the opinion of the territorial communities in dealing with issues by the administration of Ukraine can seriously damage the development of these communities themselves, but on the other hand, local governments have been given several years to voluntarily unite, and where this has not been done in many years. Therefore, all things need to be done in time, awakened, and united. As an early riser, so God gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, it's a motive for Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayevna. And then we go to the vote. Please invite me. "Trust" has already been, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, this bill, which is co-authored by my colleagues from the Future Group and I, including, allow me not to focus on changes to the Constitution and to complete decentralization. A lot of people call this bill plan "B," it's a life cycle, it's only got three new paragraphs in it. In fact, now we have 26 areas where OTG is covered, and they have RDAs and district councils, and, of course, they've lost their role, they're spending huge money -- tens of millions -- that'll enable Kabin to solve the issue. Reform, it's, really, like a good book and how a movie is supposed to end in time and not need to stretch it. So let's not forget that decentralization is primarily about people, and it's not enough just to cut communities, but we need to build a new territorial leadership system. And this law will help us to do that. The Future Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (Registration No. 2653). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:34:59]] For 288 Decision taken. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović is a procedure. Turn on the Microphone, please. A card. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u144	Card, it's okay. Good afternoon. I very much ask you to change the turn of the bill and now consider 2,500 – this is an anti-corruption technical bill that is fully accepted by the committee, and 1208-2 – is the State Bureau of Financial Investigation, which, again, is technically at the disadvantage of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there is an offer from our colleagues to raise above 1208-2, because it is the position of the committee to reject it and vote this issue without discussion so that it does not waste time, and then quickly consider the question, registration number 2500. Is there no objection? None. I'm voting on a proposal to change the order of the agenda. Please support and vote. [[12:36:34]] For 312 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, regarding Bill 1208-2. He's been rejected by the committee. There is a proposal to vote for him without discussion. Is there no objection? None. Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to reject the bill on the Bureau of Financial Investigation (registration No. 1208-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:37:49]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, here we are. Show the factions, please. A statement came from two factions asking to replace the break for the performance. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Then 2,500, the decisions and the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u146	I'll try as briefly as possible about the Bureau of Financial Investigation. Unfortunately, the tactics that were chosen were not entirely logical: not to send him back to the committee for second reading and to work on the committee -- actually, what we proposed. That's why we held on to that vote. But I would like to point out that this body is critical, and the debate on who will appoint the head is, in principle, already clearly established by the Constitutional Court's decision. Central authorities and law enforcement officials are to be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't understand the discussion at all. Yes, it is necessary to correct the commission in order for it to be as independent as possible. What I would like to point out is, until the Bureau of Financial Investigations is established, the Ukrainian Security Service will not give our colleagues from the "ministers of the people" the answer, who was listening to the Prime Minister. Why? Because he's going to be using his time to blow the crap out of business. A professional analytic tool is needed – the Bureau of Financial Investigation. Therefore, appeals and appeals to the majority. Colleagues, please do not postpone this bill. Too bad he wasn't sent back for second reading. But please, in the next session, submit it as quickly as possible and accept it for consideration. Thank you very much to all who have worked on it. The Bureau of Financial Investigation is a very important institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: 2,500. We need to. Please prepare for the vote. I bet. You have been handed over a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Can we vote it out without discussion? I'll bet. No, or no discussion, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u148	First reading. Dear colleagues, first of all, wait, we need to put it in the agenda, and that takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:40:44]] For 261 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to deal with the issue and to make a decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:41:04]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (registration No. 2500). [[B in m in s a l in]] You've been handed over. It's in the materials, dear colleagues. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:41:51]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are the decrees we've discussed with you. Decree 2717: The draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the criminal persecution of the senior sergeant of the National Guard of Ukraine, Vitalia Markov, in the Italian Republic. Wait, we need to put the ad hoc procedure in order. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we will if we turn it on. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of this plenary meeting of the above-mentioned issue. Please support and vote. [[12:42:38]] For 315 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:42:58]] For 296 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. We don't vote kids then, do we? Nestor Ivanovich? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council in connection with the criminal persecution of Senior Sergeant of the National Guard of Ukraine Vitalia Markov in the Italian Republic (register No. 2717). Please support and vote. [[12:43:49]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the Establishment of Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Status of War Veterans. I offer no discussion. I'm betting on a vote to put it into the agenda. She's a dedicated, respected colleague. It's given away. Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko. However, wait. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to deal with the issue and to make a decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. You didn't turn it on? On the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the sitting. Please support and vote. We'll be there, Nestor Ivanovich. There's kids, you don't mind kids, I'm sure. [[12:44:53]] For 314 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to address this issue at this plenary meeting and to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[12:45:16]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the minute is Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. Dear colleagues, do you mind if we take this decision and take another decision on the basis of the time taken to question the questions? No, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u149	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! The regular committee at its meeting reviewed the draft regulation and decided to recommend it to Parliament as a whole, but taking into account the Committee's comments on the deletion of paragraph 4 of the ruling, which changed the terms of the commission's mandate, and which contradicted the Law on Temporary, Special Temporary Inquiry Commissions and Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis and, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, a draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission. A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans. Please support and vote. [[12:46:35.]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Children’s Social Protection Regulation and urgent measures to protect children’s rights in Ukraine (registration number 2672). Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the sitting. Please support and vote. [[12:47:11]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:47:33]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and, in general, taking into account the Committee’s proposals, the draft Decision on the State of Social Protection of Children and urgent measures to protect the rights of the child in Ukraine (registration number 2672). Please support and vote. [[12:48:04]] For 351 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery was just approaching. There's a bill. Wait. No, it's not. All of it. No questions asked. They just told me I wouldn't be there. All of it. Okay. No, just the committee head said there was no objection. No, there is a denial. 3 factions show that there are 3 objections. One minute out of procedure, Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u151	Colleagues, we have a very important law in place today on the introduction of criminal responsibility for "wores in the law." We worked on it for quite a long time together. This work was, the initiative was given by our esteemed colleagues back in the 15th year. We've agreed almost all positions with you. If there is room support, let's vote it today and close the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u152	Jurchishin's motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u153	Colleagues, an extremely important law with a huge number of rights. Ten minutes from now, it's a proponent. Let's not go in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u154	Jaroslav Romanovich, the author. Not all adjustments. Wait, we'll go another way. Who will insist on their work? All right, the question's off. Let's move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, 342 questions came to us, one of which is called the President. I remind him that he needs two votes. First. It's support, it's support for the request, it's 150 votes. And then he sent it to the president. So it is. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, please wait for this request to the President. Take your seats. Listen, please, to Helen Constantine's attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u157	It is an open-ended vote in support of Anton Kisse's request to the President of Ukraine for the repair of the road that leads to the international and state-owned checkpoints of the Forest, the Maloyaroslavic First, the Serpneve and the New Trojans of the Tarutin and the Balgrad regions of the Odessa region. Please support and vote. Please be supportive. [[12:51:35.]] For 301 There is now a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. We need to get 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:52:06]] For 315 Request supported. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to reading your requests. So the questions came: Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to cancel the Basics of the Family course for students of the 10th-11th grade, such as those with sexist, discriminatory and anti-scientific claims. Tetjana Grishenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Zitomir district government administration for the provision of comprehensive, including material, assistance to Olga Gillinska. Andrija Stryharsky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Cerkas District Council on the review of the appeal of the village of Verbiuk of the City of Cherkast Region of Bondar Inni Vasilovna to provide material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment and comprehensive social protection by the State. Andrija Stryharski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Cerkas District Council on the review of the appeal of the resident of the City of Cherkaske District of Romanov Svetrovina to provide material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation of a young child and comprehensive social protection by the State. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Lviv District State Administration, Lviv City Head for the Conservation of Archaeological and Historical Monuments of National Meaning, UNESCO Monuments – a fragment of the Wall of the Galician Castle on Mount High Castle in Lviv. Alexander Kovalova to the Ukrainian Department of State Protection regarding the circumstances that have led to abuse by officials of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Olga Savchenko to the head of the Kyiv district government regarding the destruction of the forest and the planning of the construction of buildings in the forest. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine for the immediate restoration of the financing of the project "Renovation of the water supply system of the south-eastern part of the city of Petakhtka Dnipropetrovsk Region and completion of work on the reconstruction of sewage networks and clean-up facilities. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney-General for the prolonged delay in the pre-trial investigation of fraudulent actions by citizen Sergio Antonov on the acquisition of land through free privatization. Paul Frowl’s temporary duty to the head of the Ukrainian State Service on food security and consumer protection, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, to take measures to respond to violations by commercial banks of consumer credit rules and to protect consumers ’ rights in the course of such credit. Tetjana Plačkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of State funding for the renovation of the building, stadium and elements of the well-being of the supporting public education school No.56, located at: m. Odessa, vul. Is There a God Who Cares About You? Groups of National Deputies (Kitzaka, Kuzmin and others, only 5 deputies) to the head of the Zitomir District Authority on providing information on guaranteeing rights for participants in hostilities — ATO and OOS. Bogdan Kitzak to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child to ensure the right of access to children in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. Artema Dubnov to the Attorney General on the improper investigation of criminal conduct. Andrija Lopushanski to the first deputy head of the Lviv District State Administration for ensuring the proper organization of road traffic and transportation in St. Lviv district. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Road Safety in St. Lviv. Dmitry Nalotov to the executive responsibility of the Poltava City Head for providing information on the census of the municipal property of Poltava, which can be rented. Lady Bullach to the head of the Ravenna District Council for the competition for the post of Head of the Municipal Institute of the Plain district anti-tuberculosis dispenser. Anastasia Lashenko to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the possible pressure on workers and the management of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Valeria Zuba to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine on the issue of the acquisition of a linear accelerator for the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Podil Regional Center of Oncology of the Vinick District Council", which has not been decided since 2014. Valeria Zuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget to eliminate the impact of the explosions of the 6th Armory of the Ministry near the village of the City Type of the Ichnian Region Society of the Chernigiv Region. Alexander Skecka to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the possibility of doing wrong during the development and implementation of a project for the reconstruction of the Canow dam. Gennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Agency of Roads of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to repair roads of general use of state value T 0202 Mohil-Podilski-Jampil-Berszad-Uman and T 0223 limestone-Crižopil-Piscanka - checkpoint "Zagnitkov". Sergey Labazuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnick district administration, for the rational formation of a new project for the future plan of the hops. Groups of National Deputies (Shincarenka, Sternichuk and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General for the examination of the facts of inappropriate and long-term criminal investigation. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of appropriate organisational and legal measures to accelerate the resolution of problems of a legal and organizational nature with regard to the full potential for international technical assistance to Ukraine. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds to eliminate the consequences of the extraordinary situation in the Black Sea region. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Czernieweck District Administration, Head of the Czernieweck District Council for the conduct of a review of the process of restructuring of the Municipal Hospital "Putil Central District Hospital" in the village of the city-type Putil Cherniewice district and verification of actions that may contain signs of violations by individual officials. Tetjana Grishchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Attorney General, Head of the Provincial Regional Administration on the situation of corruption in the conduct of tender purchases and activities of the private enterprise Modern Road Construction. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unjustified abolition of subsidies from the State budget to the local budget of the city of Melitopolis of Zaporozhye region for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Danila Hetmantsev to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on allegations of bribery by representatives of the Central Military and Medical Commission, and on the provision of information on the analysis of the work of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence on issues related to the appointment and payment of lump sums and compensation. Groups of National Deputies (Kelebošina, Babak and others; only 14 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation concerning the establishment of the causes of the fire in the College of Economics, Law and Home Affairs in Odessa and the implementation of measures to address the national systemic problem of fire safety in establishments with a mass population. Groups of National Deputies (Kasaya, Kuznietsov and others; only 5 deputies) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the improper exercise of the rights of prisoners in the State Institution "Poltavian Enforcement Institution (No.23)". Ivan Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Veterans Affairs, temporarily occupied territories, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community Development and Ukraine's Territories, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration for dealing with relevant socio-economic issues of residents of the Odessa region. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnick district government administration for the use of measures to increase the number of places in preschool schools and general educational institutions in Hmelnické. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the offices of the Rechetil district social services centre (social services) to be closed. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the development of a methodology for assessing the quality of hunting grounds and how to set up wages for using them. Mikoli Lušnjak to the head of the Ternopil District Council to ensure the restoration of the rights of the users of the hunting grounds — the Ukrainian Association of Fishermen and Fishermen — and to compensate for the damage caused by the removal of hunting grounds. Valery Kolucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disintegration and transfer of land of the Biotzerkow Research and Selection Station of the Institute of Bio-Energy Technologies of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for the benefit of workers, pensioners, social workers of the village and members of the fighting activities of the department. Gagarina village of Mala Wilshanka and Bakali district of Bilocerkow district of Kyiv. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts of inappropriate and long-term investigations. Eugenia Krawczuk to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for a comprehensive examination of the activities of the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Preyaslav". Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for urgent assistance in obtaining state funding for a bone marrow transplant in Turkey's Medical Park Clinic. Irina Friz to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of Staff - Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the status of the construction and reconstruction of military facilities to ensure the viability and explosive safety of arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the year 2019. Sergey Kuzminy to the Head of State for the restoration of the work of the Žitomir liquor plant and the issuance of all debts to his employees. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of Cabinet Order No.268 of 9 April 2005. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, State Water Agency of Ukraine, State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine, Attorney General's Office for the use of effective measures to ensure the proper operation of the National Natural Park "Tuzlovski lianas". Paul Frolov, acting as Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Odessa City Head, on taking immediate action to stop violations of urban legislation and illegal forgetfulness in the city of Odessa, renewing the rights of the citizens of the city and attracting the perpetrators to legal responsibility. Georgia Mazurasu to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issues raised by the use of gas-paying slippages by consumers to bring the indicators of gas counters into standard conditions. Maxima Perbynos to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine regarding the working group on the development of the Ukrainian Law, which deals with the issue of "long-term buildings" and solves the problem of affected investors. Paul Suska to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration for the continuous exchange of experience between the Scientific and Rehabilitation Centre No.12 of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council and the Kharkiv Special School of the name of Kralenka, the Kharkiv District Council for the purpose of implementing better practices in both educational institutions, enhancing the quality and comfort of the educational process based on the use of best practices. Julius Grishna to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the situation at the Tavrian National University of the name Vernadsky. Maria Mezentsevsky to the Kiev City Head about the enforcement of legislation in the field of education in part of the distribution of educational subsidies. Igor Marchuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the development and implementation of the State Strategy for the Support and Treatment of Patients with Rare Diseases and the need to launch the National Register for Rare Diseases. Igor Marchuk to the Attorney General to check compliance with the provisions of effective law by officials of the Borsztow Police Department of the Chortkow Police Department in the Ternopilsky Region and the Chortkow Local Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil Region. Michael Bondar is in charge of the regional branch of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in Lviv, Zakarpatski, and Volinsk areas for the former military premises in the city of Broda Lviv. Paul Suska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine as part of the creation of the appropriate legal and economic conditions necessary for the development of cinematography, the creation of an economically self-sufficient, competitive film industry in international markets, the production of films, other audiovisual works, and the way to consider making appropriate changes to certain Cabinet regulations. Victoria Kinsburg to Kharkiv City’s Head on the need to establish light - light objects on a series of intersections of the streets of Kharkiv with a view to improving road safety. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation regarding the lack of sufficient resources to carry out the duties of the Rakhiv Mountain Search and Rescue Service of Ukraine. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the restoration of market auctions from the sale of cremated gas for the needs of the population and the allocation of its Herson region in sufficient quantities. Groups of National Deputies (Tistika, Salamaha, Kamelczuka) to head the National Tax Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the violation of the financial investigation by the investigating authorities of the GO DFS in the Kyiv area of general principles of criminal conduct and the exercise of pressure on legitimate business activity. Irina Freez to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of information on the purchase of fuel for the needs of the army. Constantine Kasaya to the Attorney General on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, for making appropriate changes to the existing legislative acts on the transfer of funds received in 2019 under the project "Construction of Cleanhouses by Mr. Berislav Herson Region" as transitional for 2020. Vasila Petovka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the change in the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the acquisition of a solid boiler for the Supreme Educational and Educational Complex, the Supreme Region, the Ivano-Frankiv region. Ruslan Stefanchuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the use by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of urgent measures to organize treatment abroad for the resident of the city of Hmelnický Sheludz Dmitr Ivanovich. Igor Guza to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to allocate an additional amount of medical subsidies for the budget of the city of Volodymira-Volinski. Olesia Long to the National Bank of Ukraine for the reduction of the commission during the equating process. Groups of National Deputies (Jorasa, Papiev and others) Only 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the cooperation of the President of the National Tourism Organization of Ukraine with separatist groups and appellators of "Russian peace". Antonini Slavicko, head of the Regional Administration of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine in Kiev, on the use of measures to ensure the proper functioning of the activities of the jury in the district courts of Kiev. Maria Mezentsevsky, head of the President-in-Office of the Private Shareholders Association of the Holding Company Kyivmishkbud for the Prevention of a Technological Disaster, and the implementation of the "HK Kyivmishkbud" PRAT of its guaranteed obligations as a de facto contractor for the construction of a building at the address of M. Kyiv, you're welcome. Mouse Academy, bud. 9-B. Veacheslava Rublov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the non-privatisation of the state-owned company Volintorf. The Sofias of the Federation to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on security measures used in connection with the development of forces and resources in three areas: in Złotom, Petrovsky, and Stanica Lugansk. Groups of National Deputies (Fedends, Paulines, and others) A total of 24 deputies) to the Attorney General on the inappropriate examination of the MP’s appeal, which has a social resonance with the Attorney General of Ukraine. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Lviv District State Administration, Lviv City Head for the preservation of the archaeological and historical monument of national significance, UNESCO’s monument to the castle wall. (I've been reading it) Galician, located on the mountain High Castle in Lviv. Alexander Kovalova. I've already read it. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the level of social protection of citizens affected by the accident in CHAES. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health regarding the mental and narcotics situation of Ukrainian citizen Tetjana Crnowol, who, according to electronic media reports, has hyperactivity syndrome with signs of schizophrenia and a mixed type. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the improper examination of the parliamentary request by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the circumstances and reasons for the encouragement by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine's Ministry of Firearms, a Ukrainian citizen who, according to electronic media reports, has hyperactivity syndrome with signs of a schizo-effect disorder with mixed type. Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual territories (Grebinko City of the United Territorial Society). Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the completion of the financing of the construction of the capital repair of the Rs. Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on State funding for treatment abroad for sick Ukrainian citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 7 deputies) are under the responsibilities of the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head, to ensure that the requirements of legislation are adhered to unfetteredly to in the construction of the coastal protection strip along the Black Sea Aquarium of the city of Odessa. Oksana Savchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for co-financing the construction of a swimming pool in Ivano-Frankivsk with the aim of implementing state policy in the area of the development of sport infrastructure. Anna Wheeler to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, head of the Ukrainian National Agency for Public Service, Attorney General for Information. Oleg Kolev to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the facts of child rights violations at Odessa District Municipal Institute for Social and Psychological Rehabilitation of Children of the Odessa District Administration (Holiday) Sergey Gryvka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for information on the commission of illegal activities. Mikhail Kryčka, head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the improper operation of the electronic tax administration system at the added cost. Mikhail Kryachka, head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine, acting as Head of the General Directorate of the State Tax Service in the Zaporozhye Region, on the activities of the PPE Commission in the Zaporez region, which decides on the registration of PN/RK in the ERP for refusal in such registration. Alexia Kucherenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the approval of the order and size of compensation to natural gas consumers for the installation of individual accounting devices. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Institute of Human Resources Training of the Ukrainian State Employment Service. Paul Bakuntz to the head of the District State Administration of the Lviv Region for the transfer of land outside the populated areas of the state form of property of the Yavorov region. Paul Bakuntz to the first deputy head of the Lviv District State Administration on the administrative and territorial system of Lvivščina, in particular on the new district division, and on the activities of the inter-ministerial working group established by the Lviv SDA, which is engaged in the reform of the administrative and territorial system of the State. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of an extraordinary situation in the town of Vovchansk and the region of Harkowa in the event of an end to the transit of gas from the Russian Federation. Dmitry Schenchev to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funding for the repair of R-79/M-18/Sahnovščina-Izum-Kupjansk checkpoint "Pisky". Dmitry Nalotov to the executive duty of the Poltava City Head to provide a copy of the map of the decommissioning of M. Poltava. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a permanent functioning of government committees. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the implementation of the ILO directive "To Change Public Sanitary Standards and Rules for Preservation of Population Areas" to provide a barrier-free environment for all. Vitalia Bezgina to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine for the granting of citizenship to Ukraine to Manukyan Karen Robertovich. Igora Kisilova to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the taxation of operations and the implementation of explosives of the "ERA" brand produced by the Pavlograd Chemical Plant. The Gennady of Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to restrict traffic through the historic part of the city of Mogilov-Podilski with a view to ensuring the right of residents to a safe environment in connection with the inadequate ecological composition of the city and the damage to the transport infrastructure of the streets and roads of the city. Vadim Yvchenk and Hennady Watzak to the High Council of Justice on the need to examine the facts of biased treatment of judges, violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms for a fair hearing of a case over a reasonable period of time. Mikoli Galuchka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the measures taken to create a "hot line of missing children" at the only number 116000." Maxim Dirdin to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of housing for members of the forces of the Pervomayan garrison. Anatolia Kostuha to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, acting as head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for Water Treatments of Uzhtódá. Sergija Litvinenka to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on the possible threat to the environment as a result of deforestation in violation of the Health Rules in the Forests of Ukraine, which takes place in Kostopilski, Maštanski, Mokvinski, Basel, Zlazninski, Midland Forestry. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Medical and Drug Control, temporarily acting as Head of the National Regulatory Service, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the draft order of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, "To make changes before the Order to confirm the conformity of the conditions of manufacture of medical devices with the requirements of good manufacturing practice". Andrija Klocka, acting as Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Ukraine, on ensuring transparency and transparency in the activities of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Chernyew, Bardina, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to provide information on the state of pretrial investigations in criminal investigations of attacks against activist Sergio Sternenka. Groups of National Deputies (Chernyew, Bardina, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General on the provision of information on the state of criminal investigation in criminal proceedings No.12018230040002816 on the fact of the attack on activist Catherine Gandzük. Viacheslava Rublov to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on preventing threats to the activities of the DP Tsuma Forest Economy. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Holodova, Kovalova) to the Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine on the development of the wine sector and the production of wine production. Groups of National Deputies (Gorvat, Holodova, Kovalova) to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the state of the wine and wine production sector. Victor Medvedchuk and Alexander Koltunović to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the transport of imported natural gas from the German gas hub (NCG) to Ukraine under the "Düsseldorf Plus" formula. Victor Medvedchuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of violations by officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the constitutional procedure for the taking of effect by law and the fulfilment of the constitutional duty of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided for in articles 88, 94 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, by signing the Law on the Prevention of Persecution and Punishment of Persons Participants of Events in Donetské and Lugansk Region, of 16 September 2014. Zinovija Andrivović to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the sport swimming pool (in the form of the reconstruction of the Superventional State) along the street. Mickevich, 3a, outside, Ivano-Frankivsky district. Zinovija Andriovica to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Capital Repair of the Accidental Bridge Crossing of the River Slobužnica in the village of Lanchin on the road to the territorial value of T 09-05 Delatin - Rakovčik. Sergia Minka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the completion of the restructuring of the administrative building of the Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye. Georgia Mazurasu to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of providing onceased citizens with medical devices in connection with the introduction of a new edition of the National List of Main Medical Devices. Alina Zagorujko, head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, on the ineffective use of state property. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for information on the voting of the delegation of Ukraine on the UN Committee against the draft resolution on the condemnation of the heroization of Nazism. Mikoli Skorak to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the threat of economic growth in Ukraine in connection with the monetary policy of the National Bank of Ukraine. Igor Negulewski to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Exceptional Situations, Interimly Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Acting Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Security Service, Head of the National Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Roads Service in the Mikolaivian Region, Prosecutor General, Head of the National Police Department of the National Police in the Mikolaiiv region. Larissa Bilozer to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to address the problem of the formation of the budgets of the united territorial communities. Victor Myalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance to accelerate the channelling of subsidies from the State budget to the budget of the village of Vladimirec, in the province of Ravenna. Victor Mjalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the catastrophic state of the road road of general use of the state value T-18-17 in the village of Grodec, the village of Antonovka Volodimirecka district of the Rivna region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on the lack of socio-economic compensation for the risk of population living in the observation zone in the Manevic region of Volin. Irina Konstankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine for the exclusion of the Volinthorf DP from the list of enterprises subject to privatisation. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the entry of Russian media blogger Alexander Mitrošina into Ukraine. Stepa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the development and financing of a State-wide targeted social security programme for 2020-2025. Sergey Steps to the Director General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert on the need for urgent re-examination of the Iskra business in order to save the science-production complex from destruction. Jury Zdebski to the head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for the provision of information and guidance materials on the current state of the Ukrainian-Russian state border treaty-making. Groups of National Deputies (Zabrodski, Fedina, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on the payment of the work of certain officials and directors of state enterprises. Anatolia Kostuha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the communal non-commercial enterprise Irsavska District Hospital. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, on the situation in enterprises that are engaged in the production and use of explosives. Groups of National Deputies (Ariev, Klimpus-Cincadze and others) 9) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, for information on the objectives and results of the official visit of President Zelensky to the Sultanate of Oman in January 20. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports, on the use of urgent measures to prevent construction on the territory of the Novodmitrov Rural Council of the District of Constantine in the area of the plant for the disposal of biological waste. Igor Vasilíví to the Attorney General on personal control over the proper investigation of criminal conduct since 14 November 18 on the basis of the signs of criminal offence envisaged in part two of article 286 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Igor Negulewski's acting Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the examination of the "Novobus Pedagogical College" of the Department of Education and Science of the Mikolai District Public Administration for illegal payments to students who have already completed their studies. Maxima Guzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the 2012 accounts payable for medical equipment purchased in the Sumskia region. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure a fair balance between the interests of the State and business in the field of fuel storage in non-licensed warehouses. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the project "Restructuring Cleanhouses and Powered Collector" in the city of Danube Region. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, acting as Head of the National Fiscal Service, Business Ombudsman on the verification of the Documentary Review Act and the Tax Report on the Signs of Offences by Tax Officials and the Pressure on Business Activities. Aunts Ryabuha and Igor Vasiliev to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office for the conduct of a review of the management of the assets of the Suma District Council and its officials. Aunts Ryabuha and Igor Vasiliev to the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the conduct of a public audit of the management of the property of the Suma District Council. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the issue of the construction of the 48th apartment building on the street of Crapaya in the city of Brody and the construction of a factory of improved planning No. 2 in the city of Broda Lviv district. Vassil Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the 20th year of the Rakhiv District State Administration of the Zakarpat Region for the release payments. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to amend the current legislation with a view to prohibiting the release of persons detained for drug disposal, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors. Anna Speedhod to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on granting consent to the project to the Land Authority regarding the private ownership of Valentina Powhan for use as a target. Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a ceiling for monetary compensation for heads and members of independent supervisory boards. Alexander Danuci to the head of the State Geology Service and Nadr Ukraine for the verification of the reasons for the granting of LIRA MINE MINERALS a special permit for the production of gold ore in the Kirovograd area without auction. Alexander Kunickýk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for changes to the draft directive of the Ministry of Health "To make changes to the Procedure for confirming the conformity of the conditions of manufacture of medical devices with the requirements of good manufacturing practice". Artema Dubnov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the improper transport link of the Troistina array in Kiev. Alexia Honcharenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing official answers on the actions and measures taken by the Ukrainian Security Service to inform the President of Ukraine of the threat to the rights, freedoms and lives of Ukrainian citizens (including himself as Head of State) through the exchange of air and missile strikes between the United States and Iran, which took place from 2 to 8 January in Iraq. Alexia Honcharenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Official Responses to Actions and Measures undertaken by the Ministry of Defence to inform the President of Ukraine of the threat to the rights, freedoms and lives of Ukrainian citizens (including himself as Head of State) through the exchange of air and rocket strikes between the United States and Iran, which took place from 2 to 8 January in Iraq. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for ensuring adequate conditions for the provision of medical care to residents of the Zoločov district of Lviv. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ignoring the legal requirement of the Ukrainian National Police for the Ukrainian National Deputy, violated in a parliamentary request for criminal responsibility of officials of the Kyiv City Council and the Kyiv City Administration, guilty of failing to implement the decisions of the Kiev City Council on the first-line measures for the principle of improving the quality of services for maintenance of buildings and buildings, innuendo areas and the continued provision of these services at the right time and in full." Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the full restoration of taxpayers' tax rights. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need for the development of a national programme to provide free medical care to the Oncows of the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region, who are involved in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident or to citizens who have suffered from an accident, including those who have been disabled. Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, do you mind if we continue to finish the questions at the expense of the "Victory"? Do you mind? Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u159	Jury Pavlovka to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice on the violation of the rights of children to civil justice by the New Gradu city court in the Donetsk region. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk District State Administration, the head of the Regional Military and Civil Administration on the difference of the Donetsk Region from other regions of Ukraine in the ratio of adoption of children by Ukrainian citizens and foreigners and the reasons for the adoption of children by foreigners. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Pauline, and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Police, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service on the incident that took place on 06.01.20 during the Russian blogger Alexander Mitrošina's speech in Kiev, and an official investigation into the legality of the actions of the National Police of Ukraine patrols in Kiev. If you'll disturb me, I'll read them even slower, honestly. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Pauline, and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, head of the State Border Service of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich insists that we complete the announcement of requests from Ukrainian national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. No, I can stop, it's up to 30 minutes according to the Rules. We're today. We've been reading 45 already, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] The watermelon is very negative. He did when he heard your request. No, it's not. Dmitri Valeriyovich, you came, you asked, but I didn't lie. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous, all right. Dear colleagues, just next time your questions will be over, and they won't read them either.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u161	No, these requests will be returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u162	And don't be offended. And these questions will be returned. These requests will be returned because the session ends. Are we moving on? Are we still asking questions? Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u163	Give me five more minutes. I'll try to be there in five minutes. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Pauline, and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the extension of restrictive measures against foreign cultural actors whose actions threaten Ukraine’s national security. Groups of National Deputies (Chigoza, Klimpush-Cincadze. Total 12 deputies) to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the absence from the working council of matters related to the plane crash of Boeing-737, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, A.J. Bogdan, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, I.H. Bakanova and Minister of Interior of Ukraine A.B. Habakkuk. Groups of National Deputies (Chigoza, Klimpus-Cincadze and others). A total of 12 deputies) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine concerning the statement made by the Embassy of Ukraine in the Islamic Republic of Iran on the reasons for the plane crash of the Boeing-737 Ukrainian airline "International Airlines of Ukraine" which was scheduled to carry out the flight PS752 on the route "Tegeran Kiev". Taras Batenka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Lviv City Head, for the clarification of the arrangements for the award of service contracts for the management of a multi - apartment building, for the cancellation of services. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support to the First-Major Coal Company for the development programme and the implementation of the Gyrska Checkout. Galina Vasilchenko to the head of the Lviv District Council on the change of registration of the Lviv Municipal Enterprise. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to continue the construction of the school for 470 students in the village of Tarutin, Odessa. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the deepening of negative trends in external trade. Alexander Ponomarrow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing measures in 2020 to prevent an extraordinary situation in a self-driving sewage collection and power pipeline in the city of Berdjansk, Zaporijsk. Alexander Ponomarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of financing of the road by road for the general use of the N-30 value of Vasilyvka-Berdjansk. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Social Policy to clarify the order of appointment and pay pensions to athletes for years. Sergia Litvinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Sosnov district hospital in the village of Sosnare, the Bereznov district of Ravensk. Igor Vassilkovsky to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the immediate targeting of the operating clinic of the funds allocated to the MOH for transplanting the bone marrow of a Ukrainian citizen who is suffering from cancer, acute monoplastic leukosis. Alexander Danuci to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Regional Administrations of the Pension Fund of Ukraine's judicial decisions regarding the payment of debts resulting from the miscalculation of pension payments. Alexander Fedienka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the establishment of pay for access to access infrastructures for the placement of technical telecommunications equipment in the city of Kiev. Alexander Fedienka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible opposition to legitimate economic activity and illegal possession of property by KC "Orchid 3". Vladimir Vátarović to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the inaction of the Ukrainian Security Service in the illegal activity of the Ukrainian company, the promotion of Stalin, and the propaganda of the totalitarian Communist regime. Sergia Dunaev to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the verification of possible violations of legislation by officials of the local self-government body and for the dissipation of the state budget in the renovation of the building of the general secondary school and the boarding house in the village of the Bilovodsk Lugansk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Krivosheeva, Laby and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the cessation of illegal deforestation in the Zakartat region. Groups of National Deputies (Pearl, Mandia, and others) A total of 5 deputies) headed by the Kyiv City State Administration on the need for a speedy solution to the situation regarding the appointment of a re-election for the post of director of the specialized school, I-III, with an in-depth study of English language No. 15 of Kiev. Julius Yatzik to the head of Zaporozhye District State Administration on the distribution of funds allocated for the purchase of waste materials for the treatment of chronic renal failure by haemodialysis for the 20th year. Alons Schrum to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for receiving information on the size of payments received by officials of the customs authorities. Alons Skrum to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the size of payments received by officials of ministries, the number of bonuses received and additional payments received in ministries and the ratio of the minimum wage paid in the Ministry to the highest wage with bonuses and additional payments. Alexander Tkachenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the verification of the facts that led to the emergency of the city of Kyiv. Alexander Kacny to the State Bureau of Investigation for the violation of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Status Act. Roman Lozinski to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the unwarranted demands of banks to members of public organizations. Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, on the possibility of teaching children in educational institutions without the necessary vaccination. Paul Melnik to the first deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports on the lack of effective action to address the low coverage of the T2 air signal in Tokmak, Primorsk, as well as in the settlements in Mikhailski, Yakimivski, Priazovsky, Wesselovsky and other areas of the Zaporez Region. Marina Bardinau to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General, for the provision of an objective and impartial investigation into the traffic in Poltawa. And the last request by Sergey Vlasenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for information on Ukraine's implementation of the European Court of Human Rights rulings. Today's the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u164	Thank you. Extreme if the correct wording is used. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Vulnerable. We've got 18 minutes, please sign up for the nationals. The heads of factions please invite the national deputies to the hall, without two minutes, there or without a minute, two of us will announce the closure of the session. Please invite the national MPs. Keith Andrey Bogdanovich. Who? Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u165	So we're at the rostrum, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Or from the place, I don't understand. I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u166	Turn on the microphone. So you're changing the place, you know, the camera's not catching up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u167	I don't understand what's going on in this room. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today our group has advocated giving people the money they deserve, I mean miners. And the coal they told us to take out of the hall is like gold. I'd like to take Mr. Orgel's place today, instead of Nasalik's minister, to join this process, to come to Lugansk County, to Donetsk County, to go down to the mine, to stay with the miners there, to work for at least an hour, and to see how this hammer can work in the mine -- the 21st century, when coal is being mined around the world. Next. Note who is to blame for not paying this salary. Mine directors, coal union generals, minister - someone in this state should be responsible for not paying wages? There is criminal responsibility, article 175 of the Criminal Code, please open and read: Up to seven years of free will for those who abuse people today. I'm defending myself today not just for the miners, for the teachers, for the metallurgists, and for the doctors who don't get paid today, either, from the fools who sit there in the Cabinet of Ministers and do nothing they can to fill the budget. What I want to say about coal is that this is gold, this is Ukrainian gold that's in the land of Donbas, of Lviv, of Volinski, of Kirovgrad. And please know that the whole state was holding on today, the economic train, it was an energy sector. Let's develop it, the energy sector. I'm turning to all the major national MPs who literally go to the districts and watch people beg and live in the Cabinet of Ministers with millions of wages. We also accepted self - government today, about communities. I want to pay attention to the city of Reuben, where Sergey the Great from our team, the city of Sevierodonetsk, the city of Lysichansk, where the deputies go mad, in the full sense of the word, they rob cities, the law enforcement authorities wash their hands with them, and they rob hundreds of millions of dollars with their hands. Look, we're looking from the whole "Trust" group to the law enforcement agencies, to the Attorney General, to the Minister of the Ministry of Justice of Habakkuk, to address these issues, and 79 of them, to raise them up, investigate and punish the guilty. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u168	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, in my nearly 12 years in this session room, what I have seen today, I have never seen such a thing, when the Prime Minister of 40 million-dollar Ukraine jumped up to the rostrum and instead of answering any questions, cried out words and slogans, jumped out of the hall, answered no questions about the crazy salaries that his colleagues received. The previous speaker said they didn't pay the miners. What kind of salary do they pay? Is it possible to call it salary what teachers pay? Is it possible to call it a salary what is paid to doctors? Instead, governments receive hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars. Instead of working for a few months, they write off vacations and write compensations for their work. The results of this government's work are in the refrigerators of our citizens, and unfortunately there's nothing there. Because there is no way for a teacher to meet his needs today. At a salary of 3, 4, 5,000 dollars, mother. The teacher, the minister's salary of 500,000 dollars is unacceptable, it's not normal. The Golden Standard of the European Union is the difference between the smallest wage of the person who works from 10 to 12 times, but not thousands of times. When our managers get millions of dollars, the heads of state enterprises get millions of dollars, what did they do, create this business? Did they create what they're using right now? No, they got from the state what was created by generations of Ukrainians, increased tariffs and paid for their wages. By the way, NAC Naftogaz, with a loan, an unrepayable loan at 2 billion, has prolonged it, and will now send 700 million dollars to the so-called Naftogaza leadership prize. So this is a completely abnormal situation. We need to call for the immediate lifting of this infamous government decision on an entirely unjustified unfair increase in wages for these so - called professionals. They say: "We are experts," but on the one hand, the Prime Minister said he understood nothing about the economy, but he's a lawyer. But today from the Supreme Council's rostrum, he said he didn't know the Constitution: he applied for his resignation, it turns out, submitted it to the President of Ukraine, confusing it with the Cave Department of Crucifixion. He should make a statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and not tell any tales. And these wages are unworthy to cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u170	Friz Irina Vasilovna. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u171	The Supreme Society would like to address three questions that are of vital importance to the security and defence of our nation. If we are to mention the tragic events of the crash of the Ukrainian aircraft, unfortunately, we must note that at this point, there was no nearly ever-increasing leadership of the state in the territory of Ukraine. The President was in Oman, the Head of the Supreme Council in Lausanne, the Prime Minister in Abu Dhabi, the Head of the BSS in Kurshevel, the Head of the IMF in Italy, the Head of the President's Office in China. In fact, almost all the higher-ups who have the ability to make decisions concerning the security and defence of the State were not present in the Ukrainian State at the time of special importance, which poses a threat and a danger to the very functioning of the State. And in fact, the leadership has self-removed and put at risk the well-being, the existence, life of our fellow citizens, and this is already article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code "Service Carelessness", which is the improper performance of the service obligations that have caused significant damage, in this case, to the interests of the state. I believe that this should be taken into account for the future as well, and it should also be a responsibility for this kind of service negligence. The second question. We are now being told about the deployment of troops in the next nine points on the line of separation. And I'm going to remind you that since the extreme withdrawal, because the Moscow side has taken nothing, we've had 535 shots, 12 dead, 51 wounded. So how many more people have to die, how many more shots have to be fired to make people realize that the Moscow side is not going to take anything away? And Ukraine can be strong when it takes an active stand without defending its state. And the third question. In the context of the situation with Mr. Prime Minister and the conversations that have been recorded, I have a question to ask the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, which should be taken into account. Is it normal for the higher cabinets in the state, the Office of the Prime Minister, or even the same Office of the Head of the DBR, to the right and to the left, to be heard by what persons or structures? Why do we not currently have a report by the Head of the U.S.A. on the fact that this situation has already been taken into control, which has been verified? I think it's also service negligence, because we don't know who's listening, and so the services of other states, especially the aggressor states, have the opportunity to listen to everything that's going on and use it for their own purposes. Although it is a good thing that we have heard the Prime Minister and his coworkers think about what is going on in the country, we need to do everything we can to ensure that this is no longer the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u173	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I would like to begin by thanking, indeed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Pristik, who is not the only one to carry out the commission of the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to come here today for "the hour of questions to the Government." And I'm grateful for his professionalism and for trying to explain why the Ukrainian Embassy in Iran, in fact, gave false information about the causes of the death of the crew and the entire MAU plane in Iran, and whether all the other government officials were doing the right thing. But I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, who wasn't there at the time, but how the government acted. Has everything been done by the Ukrainian State Service in order to suspend flights to the country on time? The question, I think, will be given by the commission of inquiry. And what's important is that it works professionally in Iran. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister about decentralization. And is it true that Minister Babak resigned? If so, today the Prime Minister should submit to the Supreme Council for approval of the release of the Supreme Council's decree and the nomination for this responsible office, because decentralization is necessary. And that is what the law requires, and the communities that have to function in the territory of the state. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, and how does the government reform the housing sector? We see what's happening in cities and, by the way, in the capital, despite the fact that winter allows for the saving of resources. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister about the price of gas and many other things. And is the government really unable to pay additional fees to the education community due to the lack of resources? Is it true that there are no confirmed rumors? And in general, I would like to thank the head of the committee, Mrs. Trelyakowi, for having agreed at the last meeting to set up a working group to work on the new law on engagement and trade, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u174	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, once again I am addressing the heads of factions and MPs, this is our last speech. Then we move on to. There's only one time left. Then we move on to the closing procedure. Please be ready. All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know you're always ready to act. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u175	Thank you. Hello, everyone! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. You know, it's just one of the last performances I have, or maybe the last one, so we can sum it up. It's been a very interesting month. You know, this is January 17th, today we have January 17th. And what did we see in January, a month away from our authority, from Green and from our company? Well, it all started out well: Bukovel, president of the ski club. Then, suddenly, he appeared on the shore of the Indian Ocean, right from there with such a miracle. I understand that Zelenski and Bakanov can now claim to participate in the collective Ukraine in mountain sports, because they have already gained serious opportunities to do so. And it appeared on the shore of the Indian Ocean. When it became known, they began to think of what he was doing there. Turns out he has an official program. Then, indeed, such a failure: everyone learned that the Sultan of Oman was in a coma, and he had already died. But Zelensky used to spend time there, perhaps with the media, talking to him, and so he rested. Then came our plane’s terrible disaster in Iran. Zelensky is stuck in Iran again. Our embassy has reported that this is the technical failure of our aircraft, that it is not a rocket or a terrorist -- a terrible total waste of the state's image and the image of a national airliner, and of the pilots who died in this terrible catastrophe. By the way, Secretary of the RNBO Danielov said a few days ago that it was a planned action agreed with Kiev, as if it were so we talked to Iran, such a cunning move. And today was Pristajko, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he said I'm sorry for our embassy in Iran, they were just in shock, they didn't know what to say and so they said to the fool, and they wrote it on the website. Look, you guys, get out of there! This is the Secretary of the National Security Council, this is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and they don't even know who they are and what they're doing. Then Zelensky gave an order where to call from the age of 18. May I remind you, five years for the President's past have been called in since 20. After the scandal has risen again, the Secretary of Defense says we'll be taken from 20. Listen, what's going on? Do you have any understanding with each other? And of course, the last one, like a piece of cake, is the story with Honcharuk, the story with the fog in the President's head. I quote the Prime Minister once again that Zelensky has a fog and a void in his head, and that's why every shit gets there, and it's so much easier to say that he has a primitive understanding of economic processes. Then it turned out that such a prime minister was not needed. Sure. Maybe we still need it. That January for Zelensky is the team's disintegration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. One minute of motive is Lubinets, and then we close the session. One minute, Dmitri Valeriyovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u177	You went on for 15 minutes. So we're not going to waste time. Honorable National MPs. National Deputy Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, Donetskina I represent 60 constituency. I went out to tell you what the problems were in the district, but unfortunately I only got a minute. So I want to apologize to all of you that I constantly demand compliance with the law. I want to apologize that I went to the chairman and told him to follow up on the decision that we voted on today, and we'll start "Razne" at 1:30. I would like to apologize to the Ukrainian citizens for the fact that I and the Group "For the Future" voted in favour of the Kabmin, who today have paid millions of wages. Reduce education costs by 50 percent, for medicine by 50 percent. It's 1 million 800 wages per month. In all the villages, the Crucifixion is closing down, they're all transferring half the salary -- one and a half thousand bracelets into hands. There is confusion in Ukraine. And I want to apologize again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, four more announcements, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, and we move on to closure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u179	Guys, I'm fast. An interfractional parliamentary association has been formed "Transformation of Ukraine". The heads were chosen by Andriy Andriyovich, Kirilenka Ivan Grigorovich, Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich. An interfractional parliamentary association has been created, "Protection of the rights of the child is a priority of the state." The headquarters of the union were the national deputies Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich and Ryabukh Tetjan Vasilovna. There's an interfractional MP union called the Great Volin. Irina Miroslavovna and Aleksiychuk, Alexander Vasilovich, were elected as head chiefs. And finally. So far, the largest interfractional parliamentary union known as "Censorships, Dignity, Family" has been created. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Juras Svetoslav Andriyovich, Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, Tarutu Sergija Alexiyovich, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, Konstankevich Irina Miroslavovna, Kovalov Aleksandra Ivanovich, and Savichuk Oksana Vasilovna. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-17-m0.u180	Honorary colleagues, according to our January 17 calendar plan, are scheduled to conclude the plenary work at the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I remind you that next week the Ukrainian national deputies are working with the electorate. Second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation The third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call will begin on Tuesday, February 4, 2020, at 10 a.m. Dear colleagues, thank you all for your work. It was really a fruitful session, and I hope that the next one will be even better. The second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call will conclude its work on January 24, 2020. The last plenary session of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
