ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning. Is the microphone working? Good morning, dear fellows! Thank you. I am also pleased to see you very much, especially from this position where I too have the right to work a little bit. Good morning, media officials, good morning, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Shall we get to our work? Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:02]] There are 286 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Let's move on to the hour of questions to the government. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, it was determined that members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today would answer questions about tariff policy in Ukraine with energy supplies and utilities: the current state and prospects. The following agenda is proposed: a statement by the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine – 10 minutes, answers to questions from MP factions and groups – up to 30 minutes, and after this question and the Prime Minister's reply, an introductory statement, followed by a question and an answer by the Prime Minister of Ukraine - 20 minutes. Is there no objection to such an order in our work? None. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Orgel Alexei Anatoliyovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to be here today to answer the questions you have today. Actually, my talk isn't going to be very long, I want to leave more time to answer your specific questions. The government has the answers to all the challenges facing the sector today. But what I want to say is that at the beginning of the government's work -- it was the end of August -- we had a rather difficult situation about the availability of fuel in warehouses, whether we are going through a stable and safe heating season, about the potential increase in energy prices and tariffs for our Ukrainian consumers. As a result, and today we have a furious month, we have secured a stable heating season. Speaking of electricity tariffs, which were then quite significant and were particularly a burden for our Ukrainian economy, the average price for electricity during the government's work period was reduced by 26 percent. If we talk about how we were able to solve the gas price issue, there were, in fact, great risks that we would not be able to sign an agreement on transporting Ukraine's territory to Europe of gas, as a result -- it came out. This enabled us to ensure that the price of gas for our Ukrainian consumers is reduced by 25 percent in January. You have to be honest, there are other factors that affect the overall final tariff. There is a need to review and the need for investment investments in infrastructure, in energy infrastructure, is a significant outflow of core funds. So given the factors that allowed us to lower the price, we still included the necessary costs to upgrade the core funds and rebuild the infrastructure. In particular, the tariffs for distribution have not been revised since 2016. In this case, an independent regulator, an energy regulator, had a review and tariff to ensure the stability of the gas supply. The same is true of the heat tariff. The same is true of water tariffs. We have to be honest with each other and say that without these necessary changes in tariffs and clear monitoring and control on the part of the authorities that have to properly control the efficiency of spending, we can just lose infrastructure. So given these factors, the independent regulator is always taking into account the need for these tariff changes to ensure the stability of the infrastructure. On the part of the government, everything was done, as I mentioned. And the decision in the electricity market, and the decision in the gas market to make it possible to lower the price of the main product that forms the tariff for the final consumer. At the same time, to balance the situation with the factors I've called, we're not entirely. i.e. reflected this decrease in the final tariffs. But it's very good that we have both reductions and there are still increases, the necessary changes in the tariff to support infrastructure. I also want to say that the situation today is something that is not statistical, we have new challenges. And, in particular, we have the warmest winter today, with observations. And that means that we also have a change in the logic of consumption. We have this effect, of course, that our Ukrainian consumers pay less, but that means that the corresponding products in the energy and utility sectors are declining. This means that on this infrastructure we have, we give less product, which is still a potential increase. 10 percent a day, I hear a report from dispatchers, 10 percent less electricity consumption. Heat consumption also declines according to thermal graphs. That means that we're going to have to reduce the base on which we can charge the costs. Another important factor was this, and there were many questions, and really a very painful and relevant issue in the development of the coal sector. But I want to point out that every day, coal reserves in warehouses are increasing. That means we don't work coal. We extract more coal than we consume in a heating period at maximum load. We need to be very complex in solving all social issues, but we must be honest about the need for reform and restructuring in the coal sector. Because in this case, if you do this load, you don't have any product. It's a painful decision that needs a comprehensive approach, but we still have to follow it consistently, and it's planned for everyone to understand what steps the government will take. But we need to do the necessary reforms and the necessary things that require the current situation. I've got everything. I'd be very happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to the minister. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the Minister of Energy. Please. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Bilozur Larissa Mikolayevna, MP Group "To the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Minister! Larissa Bilozer. 15th District, Winnitzkin. Tell me, please, and make a comment like this, how do you make people who are involved in alternative heating methods for their own premises, and now they have to pay for the gas they don't use? For example, those who refused to consume gas set up solid boilers. Even those who have not lived in private homes for a long time receive payment for delivery. And there's such a paradox that people have taken energy saving measures, and now they have to pay. People are really angry at the place. I was approached by hundreds of my constituents. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u5	Thank you for asking. Indeed, dividing the payments into two payments is just a requirement for dividing the activity. We have separate transportation activities, separate distribution activities, and gas supplies. This means that the State controls and regulates tariffs on natural monopolies, and transporting gas and gas distribution are natural monopolies to avoid abuse, and controls this issue within the framework of independent regulator decisions. What's the logic? I will now pass, if I may, two words, this is the governor's decision, directly to the regulator's representative in place. But the logic is as follows. In support of the decisions made by our Ukrainian consumers, I have made this decision myself, and I have solid boilers. And the point is, in order to be able to sustain the service of gas supply, if we count the capital cost of creating this system, people really looked like they were actually building these gas distribution networks. Nevertheless, in order for there to be pressure on these networks all the time, so that they can work all the time to be repair crews to be service staff, we have to pay the money. It can't be in a working condition all the time without getting paid for it. But what I want to point out is that at any given moment, a person who even has a solid boiler and doesn't use gas, he opens up gas and gets this service supply. This approach and distribution on the corresponding components of the tariff is also the logic of the Third Energy Package, and it is the logic of how it works in Europe and in the world. This is an infrastructure tariff segment, as well as a product tariff segment. The product segment of the tariff is directly gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u6	I'm asking you, we have regulations, and there are other desirable people. I give the floor to Shahov Sergio Volodymyrovich. And I ask you when you ask a question, and when you answer, you put it in at a certain time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u7	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". My word to Mikola Babenko, he'll ask questions from our group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u8	Please, Mikola Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u9	Thank you. Question number one. The president of Ukraine gave the order to lower tariffs, was the government’s decree. I draw your attention to the city of the Bila Church, where the tariff does not go down, and 14.01 raised the tariff by 10 percent. We've collected 50,000 signatures in one week, we want to hand it over to the government. Please note what local rulers are doing to people. In addition, questions about transporting gas have been raised among all the deputies of the Trust Group. Where do these payments come from, please explain? And from Shahov, it's the miners' salary. When will wages be paid to miners?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Directly on the payments, once again, going back to the question, it's really a separation of services. In this case, the regulator made the right decision, as I explained, the infrastructure component of the tariff, the freight component of the tariff. If you talk directly about the miners and the debts that there are now. This Tuesday a small budget payment was made. Yes, indeed, indeed, we are now balancing this issue in order to control the situation and balance. However, frankly, there will be another budget payment in the near future. There was a meeting with the President yesterday, and we were with the President, and we talked to the miners, and we talked about perspectives. As I said, we now have as much changed consumption patterns as the electricity market itself is changing, and the main coal consumer, especially the government mines -- where we see the corresponding debt, is the heat generation. We're reducing direct heat generation, we're reducing electricity production from these kinds. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is the heating tariff directly from the heat utility? I'll take your address. In fact, there was a government decision on the possibility of a reduction. This is the question of the local authorities in this case, and we will certainly pay attention. We will do so within the framework of the White Church. At the same time, in other cities and where decisions have been made, between 5 percent and 30 percent have been made for the reduction in gas prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u11	Thank you. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u12	Good morning, colleagues. Klimenko, the Voice faction. Mr. Secretary, I have a simple question. You just said we have underfunded energy infrastructure. Please tell me that the production is falling, and the production of Ukrainian gas is falling regularly. In order for the payments to change and our Ukrainians to get cheap gas, it is necessary to extract their own. During your government, the production of its own gas has been declining for several blocks. How much are you planning to invest, what concrete steps are you going to take to at least implement the plan that you've drawn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u13	I thank you so much for that question. Indeed, the government has also addressed the implementation of the 2020 program. I can honestly say that the government is also a bit disappointed, disappointed with the outcome of the 2020 programme, disappointed by the proposal of NAC Naftogaz to change the production strategy. Moreover, there is a decision of the Supervisory Board that we now appreciate, not the magnitude of the increase, but the economic performance. At the same time, the corresponding investment decisions were made in the 16th, 17th, 18th year, when the price of gas was actually completely different, and the result is we have to get now, and increase our own output, increase our rents. And the main thing in this case is the energy security of the state. Unfortunately, these figures are not fulfilled. There is both a position and a Minecoenergo, and the government is addressing this issue of the efficiency of the company in implementing the 2020 programme. On our part, we're also doing our best, we're improving the situation. This government has improved the situation of transparent wholesale auctions, including oil and gas production. We improve regulatory issues, we improve and facilitate investor access to our areas. On this Monday, proposals were made for three R & D - distribution agreements. There are three foreign companies. We are now in the process of nine, signing nine SDS. We hope that these will be the factors that will affect the increase in production. But, honourable national MPs, registered by the government three bills, and I very much ask for your support, these are extremely important and effective projects to combat the "compassionate" licenses. Let's be honest, very long and very long to get the license.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u14	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u15	Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions for you. First of all, what do you propose to do to people who have brought gas to their homes at their own expense? Over the years, the oligarchs have been using it, and now they have to pay extra for it? That's the first question. The other one. Some liars decided to place gas payment payments not just in January of the month but throughout the previous year. How do you plan on doing this as a ministry? Well, there's a third question. Finally, the guiding principles for the harmonization of our legislation in the field of energy with the European Union have been approved. I've asked you a few times, have you finally sent two laws to the European Union to do so? about changes to the electricity market (2236 and 2233)? And what did you get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. Payments in this case were made by an independent regulator, and the government does not pressure an independent regulator. But what's happening now is that those people who don't use gas supply, but they still have the opportunity to take advantage at any time, they're going to get a lower cost of transportation, so within the regulator, that's what's going on. Again, logic and the same, transportation is an opportunity to get supplies at any time, so there has to be an appropriate component of the tariff. If we're talking about someone setting tariffs earlier, it's a total abuse of natural monopolies. There's a representative of the regulator. I think we're going to do the best we can on the side of the Ministry, on the side of the regulator in the terms of the licensing conditions in which they do, do the best we can, impose fines so that it doesn't happen in any way. This is a decision that has been in effect since January 1, 2020, and it is not possible to bill the services that were previously provided. If we're talking about your third question, we're really talking about Energy Community. In this case there is a 2233 position, there are notes, there were some observations. Yes, indeed, there was a decision of the Supreme Council to support, there is a position of the Digger, there is. Yeah, we were talking. At the same time, today's procedure for agreeing on energy decisions, if this is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers; if this is the decision of the Supreme Council, then the full process of agreement with the Energy Community is going to start, and it really works. So we're in constant dialogue all the time. According to those bills you said, there's actually a position, it's a little bit. I'm sure. Yes, there is a position on weaknesses. Along with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u17	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, political life is still very original. I met you two years ago when we discussed green energy. I was trying to convince you that the only way to further develop green energy is to move on to auctions. And then you told me that the Ministry wasn't good, not bad, there weren't any people who could make the right auctions. And I believe in the Ukrainian Ministry and I believe you, and I expect from you that the first thing you'll do is you'll make these auctions to finally see what the real price is, not the one that is today at green tariffs, the real price of green energy. What are you going to do today with this damocles sword of financial payout for green energy? The price of electricity for industry is very high, and it's only because of Energy, the State Energy Today you can balance. Please tell me, what are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u19	Thank you very much. It's a very topical question, painful again. On the government's side, this is what we've done: we've accepted the auction order, we're sending the module to ProZorro, and on April 1, everything will be ready. The problem is different. There's a very large package of previous sales contracts, very large. It consists of more than 8 gigawatts of installed power. That means it's easier to come to the market now and buy a package of documents for the project than to come and compete at auctions. This is a question of quota setting, and we don't know at this point how to set a real competitive price for Ukrainians. Our only answer, and we will ask the support of the deputies, to make so-called cut-off date under these previous contracts. This is when we propose, especially in solar projects, it's going to be 01.07 this year, on wind projects we're looking at 01.09, but potential compromises. If this cut-off date is not available – there will be no corresponding competition at auctions. To date, the government is also consulting and consulting the market on the restructuring of tariffs and green tariff agreements. We have over 40 billion guaranteed buyer deficits, 8 billion unrecovered deficits. We don't know where the funding is yet. In this case, the most recent offer will be from, I hope, from the National Deputies, from the Ministry on a comprehensive solution to this issue regarding the introduction of a cut-off date, so that we, from April 1st at the earliest time at these auctions, will ensure the proper competition of our investors, which we very much respect and invite, and that we really show the Ukrainian what the final price of.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u20	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. I believe that today's government, both you and your leader, the Prime Minister, is absolutely conscious of the policy of halting the coal sector. It's a very dangerous thing because this industry has 50,000 jobs, and it's extremely important for the balance of alternative energy that we're talking about. Well, there were a lot of building permits. And that's going to be a big problem. A specific question for you. When will the debt on the Mountain Wage Mine be repaid? On the verge of a strike, there's Selidewwogil and a few other compounds that don't get paid today, miners. When will you repay your debt? Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u22	I thank you very much for your answer. Oh, for the asking. The government is now working to find compensation through the budget for the wages that are currently being raised in mines. The problem is that the profitability of the mines, the government mines that you've been talking about, I'm clearly informed about the situation on the Mountain Mine. The thing is that the profitability that's on the mines right now and the decrease in coal consumption in Ukrainian energy is extraordinary. And we're talking about giving us a comprehensive plan for restructuring and reforming the coal sector. And once again, I want to say that every day in the warehouses, we're going to get out of the heating season with record amounts of coal in the warehouses. Three million tons is our exit plan. We didn't work the coal. In fact, we're going to have to look somewhere for further use. We're being approached by both our Polish neighbors and other suppliers. Now the whole world is offering to supply coal, but by no means do we go to these proposals, because we have to ensure the work and implementation of the commodity products of our coal industries. But, let's see, offers, zero credits for endless periods, just buy us coal. So there's more supply than demand. On the other hand, you're absolutely right, we have to balance the system. Balance these great powers of the green generation that are built. At the same time, we're going to do it, and we're going to look at the cost of every kilowatt-hour of heat generation. But we're already coming up with a situation where if we put the price of environmental, environmental and environmental factors there in the price of kilowatt-hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u23	Motovlover Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Shewchenk Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u25	Chewchenka Eugenia Volodymyrovich? Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Alexei Anatolyevich. Alexy Anatolyevich, I'm right back here, please. Alexy Anatolyevich, I'm here, good afternoon! Eugene Shevchenko, 76th district, Zaporozhye. I have a question formed, not by me, but by my constituents of the city of Zaporozhye. I have a question about ecology. The inhabitants of Zaporozhye are deeply concerned about clean air. The citizens of Ukraine, Zaporozhye, are deeply concerned about the violation of constitutional rights regarding the safe environment. They are concerned about the health of their children. Please tell me, when will the end of Zaporozhye issue of ecology be raised? When will there be clean air in Zaporozhye? And when will people stop leaving Zaporozhye? Because there's an environment where it's impossible to live. And one last question. I was approached by colleagues from the "Serial of the People" faction, and they ask me, they want clarification from you, what is the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u28	Thank you. Here's the question of ecology and air quality indicators. There's a quality in this case. It's pollution. And we're also working on greenhouse gas issues right now. What I'm saying is that the budget for today is projected for us to build an air quality monitoring system. So that every person can know at any moment what the indicators are, whether it's safe or dangerous. By completely dividing your concern that our Ukrainians should live in a clean environment, there is now active work in the ministry on the most polluted. There will be a meeting and an active dialogue with the top 20 contaminants. And the question of when these subjects were either privatized or purchased was that they made appropriate environmental commitments. To this day they are not executed or executed to the full. So there is an active dialogue and a clear position of the state to do what you have undertaken as part of your privatization commitments, and there is a need to reduce discards, and you need to improve the environmental situation in areas where production takes place. I want to stress once again the very active position of President Zelensky of Ukraine. He has this on his own, and he communicates directly with and conducts the work with large pollutants. Monitoring is already under way, and pressure is being exerted on these companies to carry out their obligations. And there's also going to be an opportunity to use the extra money that we're going to offer you and support as environmental taxes and CO2 taxes so they can use these costs that are going to be smaller, these enterprises, to ensure cleaner production. As for your last question, the smallest payment, if you can, the controller can talk, they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up, we still have time, sign up for the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u30	Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u31	Please pass the word to your colleague Wolin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u32	Please give me your word. I didn't hear who, Vadim Eugeneovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Wolitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u33	Mr. Secretary, this is Volintz Mikhailo. You and the President were in the city of Red Town yesterday, and you promised that today will be the budget for partial repayment of your salary debt. Now they're writing essays that you're refusing to keep this promise and not signing the distribution. The second question. No. 1 of the South Danube. They've been stopped artificially right now because their coal wasn't taken to Centrenergo warehouses. One. Second, Russian coal was imported instead. They didn't count for Woodbread and Centrnergo. They're on strike right now. And that's in the delimitation zone. No. 1 of the South Danube. And the third question. This is the Mountain Mine, the Carbonite Mine. People are starving for the fourth period. There are 15 women and miners with them. The protest continues. First. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u34	On the first question. Directly and yesterday, and the day before yesterday, there were payments equal to 10 million for the coal DP, the coal pool, the coal mine where we were with the president yesterday. So there are now operating points for payment and appropriate compensation for the mine where we were yesterday. At the same time, there were two corresponding payments for this coal compound that we visited yesterday. On the question of "The Mountain." Today, at six, as I was told, hunger was halted. What's more, in the near future, we're working on another budget payment to compensate for the debts of miners. If we talk directly in the perspective of each mine, and when there's really no carbon payments, we have today's CO2, we're solving the issue, we're arresting one of the companies for calling in one of the companies and it's impossible to make payments. We're dealing with this in an operational order. At the same time, there is money that can be used to pay off. For every perspective. From the perspective of every mine, when you asked what perspective. We've got, during December, it's been working through every mine. And as far as I know, sometimes you've accepted, thank you for this participation, in this process. And there are corresponding figures and indicators, and there's a scenario to do with each carbon field.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u35	Zinkevich Jan Viktorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u37	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Please insert the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u38	Dear Alexei Anatolyovich! I have a question. I can't tell you how difficult the environmental situation is in the Black Sea and the Azova Seas. On the first question, I'm going to ask it and answer it myself. You probably know the basics of the administrative division of Ukraine and are well aware that any area bordering the maritime area ends with a coastline. As a result, I would like to hear an explanation from you. On the basis of what and for what purpose were the Azov and Black Sea Divisions of the Ukrainian Marine Environmental Inspectorate disbanded with the transfer of appropriate functions to the appropriate district office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. Logic was next. In fact, we have a lot of confirmed evidence that environmental surveillance and control have not been carried out, but that most of the abuses have taken place in these compartments of environmental inspection. We've worked on the question of how these control functions of our coastal areas can be translated. We've identified all the territorial units of the Derjeko inspection, which have access to water and their leading functions. The thing is, there's really going to be a big reform of the Holdeko inspection right now. No one rejects the logic of the reform that was established within the framework of the State of Natural History. At the same time, we want to go even further. We want to bring together all the inspections, including not only the environmental, but also the forest, the PSF, the fish agency -- all the control functions in one inspection. So that we have a division of authority and there's no liability factor: there's a national park border, and there's a Derjeko inspection. So in this case, we want to unite and exercise effective environmental control. And now, this is where the active work goes. However, the frank answer is why they were eliminated and handed over: because there were a lot of references to abuse on the spot in these two inspections.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u40	Please give the floor to the national MP Davidenek Valery Mikolaiovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u42	Please hand it over to Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u43	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Alexi! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Yesterday, we went into the consideration of a bill on the circulation of agricultural land. We have been approached by a great many people who own land particles and ponds with a specific question. If a bill is passed, and when a person thinks of selling his pie, they have a huge fear that they will not automatically be able to get a housing grant. Please, can you calm people down and say that this will not happen, and how does the government try to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u44	Thank you for asking, it's very relevant. We have a grant -- it's a human right guaranteed by law. If a person needs help from a state and is unable to cope with the payment of utilities or the payment of energy, he will certainly receive a grant. There are many criteria by which the appropriate authorities assess the payability when calculating subsidies. In a variety of situations, selling land can result in a person’s income. If the sale of land suddenly leads to a serious, substantial sum of tens of thousands of dollars, for example, it is obvious that a certain period of time will not require State support. Therefore, the case should be counted separately. But what I want to assure you is that no one who needs help from the state in paying for utilities or energy bills will be deprived of subsidies. It's as if we're already doing our job at the level of the Ministry of Social Policy, so there's no reason to worry. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I'd like to introduce you. Minister, thank you, time is up. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Goncharuk Aleksei Valeriyovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u46	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, the honourable ones present! I have a very short message actually for you, and then I'm ready to answer all your questions. I'd like to tell you that you're a cool guy, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the parliament, the government and the president are working as the only team. All those very important, cool things that we're doing with you right now, we can only do because we're the only ones. We've reduced this winter's payment, every person, every person pays much less than last year, and it's not just the winter heat and so on, it's manipulation. You passed the Naftogazu Ending Act. This enabled us to conclude negotiations with the Europeans, with the Russians. This led to the price of gas, including this winter, being completely lower than it could have been if the crisis had existed. This is the work that our international partners appreciate today. We did this important work with you in record time. You passed a law that allowed us to create a program called 5-7-9 -- affordable lending. This will allow us to develop entrepreneurship, it already allows many people, already dozens of people actually took advantage of it, get cheap resources, available resources for the start of their entrepreneurial business. Now you've come to consider an important, ambitious, perhaps most important since the beginning of Parliament's law is the Law on the Market of the Earth. Not about sales, how many people try to represent. Not about the sale, about the land market. This means that Ukraine is sending a signal around the world that we are ready to work under civilized rules, that we are not ready as a state to ban people from owning their property. Of course, about design, you can discuss the details, you do it beautifully. We are thrilled to see how the debate in Parliament is unfolding. But I want to give you one simple message: while we're coordinated, while we're alone, we'll have it all worked out. Your decision under the Land Market Act is not just about the land market, it's about the principles of our country's economic growth. There are many factors involved, so this is a strategic, very important decision to be taken by Parliament. Power to you, wisdom! We're next door, we, the Ukrainian government that you've entrusted with the right to operate the state now, will do whatever it takes to ensure that the law you're about to adopt is implemented and implemented in the best way possible. Since February 1st, the system of automatic analysis of the documents of the files supplied to the earth cadastre has been in operation in the country. At the DABI level, we've done this a long time ago. I mean, how does it work? For the least risky objects, a person turns — and the algorithm analyzes whether his documents fit the procedure. The level of refusal under this procedure is zero. This means that when you are correct, you have explained the procedure to a person, and an impartial algorithm evaluates those documents that are given can be achieved with a very serious result. Now a similar system that prevents a person, an official, from interfering with a useful purpose in reviewing documents is being implemented on the State Land Cadastre. So don't believe in manipulating that the system won't be ready. The system will be ready, we're ready to ensure that the earth market if you accept it, and in that design where you accept it, is implemented in the best way possible. Dear friends, thank you for your confidence, thank you for your constant support. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to sign up from factions for questioning to the Prime Minister. Please, National Deputy Keith Andrey Bogdanovich, Trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u48	I give the word to Shah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u49	Please, Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u50	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and Ecology did not answer the most important question: what should we do today in the energy field? It's in the energy sector and the coal sector. Why are there 600 million dollars of Ukrainian coal in warehouses today, and we drive, and Ukraine imports coal from Russia, from Africa, from the Americas? They also buy electricity – they also buy electricity! - in the Russian Federation. Why are our energy blocks stopping today? And they gave the whole bone to the miners by one and a half thousand dollars for six months! It's like, you know, spit in the face of a worker, a simple worker who sits a thousand meters underground! Please give me an answer! Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u51	I thank you for this very important question. Energy is a balance. There's a different generation in the balance of energy, including coal. It has happened that in decades of our government's coal industry has led to a state where people work there in inhuman conditions, when the equipment they work on cannot be safely exploited when the cost of that coal, which unfortunately is being mined by miners now, is something that can't withstand competition. This is all the result of an irresponsible, criminal policy conducted by Ukrainian authorities over the past ten years. Now a really new generation that's come to power, a new generation has faced the fact that we need to dig up everything that's owned in previous years, and we're doing it. All the debt that exists now, and it's constantly accumulated, so it's always been, unfortunately, and the miners, unfortunately, have always been hostages of the state, so we're dealing with it. Now we've done all of the mines of national importance, 34 of them, if I'm not mistaken. In each case, we now appreciate the economic situation. Those mines -- where there's economic relevance, where they can theoretically compete -- we'll support them as much as possible. Those mines where there's no economic solution, which, as a result of irresponsible ownership for decades, have been brought to the pen and raised their economic capacity, we're going to be looking for the possibility that every person who works there will not be left on the street. Don't worry, we'll take care of the miners and their families, we'll find an opportunity for each of them to secure the future, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u52	Please turn on the microphone, let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u53	But giving in to provocation and manipulation about what seems to have created a terrible situation in recent months, we certainly will not. We and the Ukrainian people know very well why we are in the situation we are in, and the last election, more precisely, the results of these elections clearly bear this out. Thank you for the important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u54	Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I have two brief questions. First. Please tell me, when will you be given the President's mandate to pay our ministers and directors of state enterprises? When will we hear from you the report on the millions of salaries of Smilinski personally, and the second is Kravtsova, and in particular his vacations, which were counted? And the second question. We've been talking to you about the Volinthorf business on a number of occasions. This is in Volina, an enterprise that fills the budget of the Manevicki district, the Plissni OTG, and the entire social sphere. And I want to ask you. If you don't know much about the economy, why is Mr. Minister of Economics?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u57	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we agreed at the time to invest, with all due respect. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I can't give it to you because it's going to be another time for everyone. We made a deal. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Did the Prime Minister understand the question? Alexei Valeriyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u58	Well, the second question is really. I've written down the name of the company, I'll make sure again that we're doing everything we can to support it. On the payroll. Let me put the dots above the "and." The president has commissioned, asked him to present a whole concept of how we see what public service salaries are supposed to look like. We did it. Today we agreed that the pay of the minister, well, the government officials -- the people who hold political positions in the government, would be made up. will be tied to the country’s average wage. This is true because the quality of the government’s work, including growth, or falling, will bind it. 3-5 wages is the amount that we today consider possible to pay to politicians. At this point, we've arranged the situation with these bonuses, there's not going to be this zoo 200, 300, 400 percent. We agreed that the prize could be limited to a single salary. These are the right conditions that we think are normal. We agreed on this position, including with the President, and in the near future. By the way, we've already made the right decision, which is that the issue has already been settled, arranged. On behalf of state-owned enterprises. It's business. We need to understand that there are no officials working there, and we need to compete there, including in the labour market, with private entrepreneurs. We as a government have already made a decision a few weeks ago, and we have asked each supervisory board of such an enterprise to refrain from paying off these biggest prizes, this is the tool we now have, and with each supervisory board we are now negotiating to sort it out. At the same time, it's about existing contracts because contracts are already signed, and we don't have them signed, we've already made decisions for the future that we've set limits, limits for every state company, they're much smaller than what they are now. The decision is taken, the situation is in order. All the details are ready to be discussed with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, simply so that no one would be offended, we agreed to join the Rules. Irina Miroslavna! Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u60	I have a question for Minfin and MON about paying the Presidential Fellowships to the international Olympics, but please pass the word to Bobrovska Solomia, because she has questions about the wounded in hospitals.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u61	No, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u63	Please, this is no longer the case. Complete your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u64	I'm still going to ask you a question. Good afternoon. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, no. Samantha Anatolyevna! Samantha Anatolyevna! Well, with all due respect! Well, let the colleague ask a question. Well, according to the Rules, let the colleague ask a question. Dear colleagues, let us also respect each other’s rules. We were talking about the Rules. Dear colleagues! Please turn on Natalie Romanovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u66	I was approached by international olympics from Astrophysics, who are now studying at the Ukrainian Catholic University, which is a private institution for which they are currently not paying for the presidential scholarship they own, with the winners of the U.S. Olympics. I am very much asking MON and Minfin to resolve this issue, and I am ready to join the task force to correct this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u68	Yes, please. Thank you for the question you've raised. It's obviously highly specialized, and we're going to clarify all the information we need right now. Please be ready to contact and work with you. Thank you for lifting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u69	Next question? Tetjana Mikolayevna. Mikhailna, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u70	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u71	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you raised the question of decentralization, I mean the authority of the executive, you raised the people, and they unite and form territorial communities. I want to inform you about the Irkliyian territorial community that came out of that legislation, and it is now more than half of the population of the county's administrative system. But it's decided to eliminate the medical centers, and that's in this village where there are therapeutic, infectious, cancer wards. And what's more, it's in the center of the district. So I'd like you to take control. And I would like to contact our minister of health for this account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u73	Thank you for the important question. Colleagues, the President has set us up with an ambition, a very ambitious plan: to change the country as quickly as possible, to reform it as possible. That's why we do unprecedented things with you. At the same time, we are finishing the decentralization reform, that is, we are actually working on creating capable communities, at the same time making a major medical reform, fundamentally changing the logic of financing the medical system. And there are many other important things. But now the question is, and I'm going to talk about it. In fact, now our task is to coordinate how each community's territory should be planned and how the hospital's hospital district should look, where the hospital will be intensive treatment. Now this is an analytical work going on. We now have a Deputy Prime Minister. We have specifically initiated you to create such a position in the government that will be responsible for coordinating the work of this department. We didn't just do it. I'll tell him, I've written that question down, I'll tell him. I'll make an appointment. I'll pay special attention to that. But I am addressing all the national MPs. Such situations, disagreements all over the country. We need to do a good job with you right now to see how our plans fit into real life. That's what we have to do soon, in the coming months. We're ready to do this with you. We count on your support and participation. Thank you. Pay attention to the problems that arise there. You're our main ally, our partner in this reform, it's very complicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u74	Olena Vasilovna Vintonjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u75	Good afternoon. Please give the floor to Deputy Volodyni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u76	Darya Artemalna Volodyna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u77	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexy Valeriyovich, I have a question about the payments. Many people are very unhappy about getting a double payment. This gives rise to discrediting the opposition and the power, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the inability of the Cabinet of Ministers to control state enterprises. With regard to what question: was the relevant department’s field of expertise considered a social impact on the adoption of a normative act? And what are the real measures already under way, or are they planned by the Ministry to remedy this situation? And the second question from Alexi Leonov and I have in common about the situation in Odessa. Last year, there was an ecological disaster — the flowering of the sea. And we both very much ask you to take personal control, and we also ask the Minister of Ecology to take this matter under personal control so that the Ukrainians can rest peacefully in Odessa next summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u78	I'll start with another one. We have recently eliminated marine inspections in the government because the analysis has concluded that they were more involved in piracy than environmental protection. Now we're reshaping the environmental inspection to make it a different approach to protecting the environment on the subject of the sea. We know about this problem, it's big, it's not just about this issue, there's another question with a ship that's been hit by disasters, it's another important question for Rest in the context of ecology. I think we'll have it soon. We've now appointed the first deputy to the environmental inspection competition, and he's about to step up the environmental inspection team. I think we are. I hear I know about this issue, and we're about to step up this job. About the payments, about the two payments. Look, it's the right thing to do. But, really, it would be more right for a person to get them and one document at a time, well, that's right to share these services, but it would be right to organize them in such a way that it would still be one document of some kind. We're working on this right now, this is unfortunately the mandate of the NCREKP, this is an independent regulator, this was their decision, and as a result, getting these two payments, this is the decision of the NCREKP. But of course, we're shaping policies in this case, so I think we're going to do everything we can in the near future to optimize and provide people with information that's available, in a clear, more accurate way. It's a matter of pure communication. In fact, if you put these amounts together, it still comes out much less than people would pay if we didn't work with you. Thank you for asking. It's very important. We know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u79	Thank you, Alexia Valeriovich. Dear colleagues. No, no, no, dear colleagues, zero zero. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches and questions is running out. Question-hours to the government are up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, your faction has already asked questions. No! No! Dear colleagues, an hour of questions to the government. Time's up, time's up. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Let's move on to the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait! Dear colleagues, if that's the case, "the hour of questions to the government" doesn't even predict a time for questions to the Prime Minister. Your faction had an opportunity. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, listen to me, please. Everyone knows the rules. Mr. Prime Minister. Wait, I'll make a deal! Mr. Prime Minister. Can I make a deal, my dear colleagues? No, no, listen to me, please. Please listen to me, I'm right now. Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister has agreed. He will answer the questions of two factions. Wait! But you listen to me now. Dear colleagues, however, the Rules do not provide. Wait, I'll make a deal. No, it's not. The next time we return to the work of the Rules. There is no question for the Prime Minister. Okay. I started on time. "Year." Take a stenographer and take a look. Take it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Questions from European Solidarity and Fatherland. Who's asking? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u80	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Next question. First of all, you walked past "the hour of questions to the government." Where have you been? And you started your speech with the phrase "you're cool," so you're not very cool. Because we ended the month of January with a budget gap of 14 billion dollars. First question: Why? The second question. You're running job competitions, like Derrickino, and then you're assigning other people. So the second question is, Why? Question three. You've been uniting ministries, and now you're separating them. Does that mean it's professionalism? The fourth questions. The whole country heard you were a pro in the economy. But you're a lawyer, aren't you? I have a question for you: Do you want to give up the Constitution? Why do you report to the President and your resignation application to the President of Ukraine and not to the Parliament of Ukraine as it should be in the parliamentary-presidential Republic? So my last question is, where is your resignation application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. It's a shame that you keep your tradition instead of working constructively to become a permanent person. However, your approach to work is very clear, and it is clear what has led the country. I'll answer all your questions, that's not a problem. With respect to the budget. The Minister of Finance has already spoken, has publicly reported on why we really have a budget breakdown. First of all, this is due to the fact that we have a budget at heading 27, according to the macro-prediction that was prepared in October. Now, the average in January was 24.1 -- that's the main reason why the numbers are different. It's like an objective absolute circumstance. The other one. We have a warm winter. This means that energy works less, burns less energy, imports, exports less gas. This means that the revenue from this value is decreasing. These factors are four or five more, each of them objective. Ready to give you a full report, have a meeting with you. By the way, we had met with faction leaders and explained these circumstances in detail. Both the head of customs and the tax manager and the minister of finance, and personally, I'm ready to meet and elaborate on the whole face-to-face budget. The other one. As far as I'm concerned. I have already mentioned that a statement was made in the name of the head of the Supreme Council, so it is legally in line with the law. It was handed over to the President because it was a political step to demonstrate that there were no misunderstandings and mistrusts between us. And you won't succeed, you won't be able to shake trust and work inside our team, no matter how dirty you try to manipulate it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u82	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u83	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to your colleague Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u84	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u85	Sobolje, Fatherland. Mr. Prime Minister, the draft Law on Landfacing is a key structure that will actually concentrate hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of hectares, of land, through mortgage. Why do you continue to insist on the preservation of banking institutions as key in the purchase and sale of land, if this is not the Land Sales Act, as you claim? Why would this scheme, which would actually allow for the further resell of these lands, concentrating them in one hand, continue to operate in the draft law? Why don't you just give it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u86	I'll explain. The Land Market Act, just like the necessary regulation on the capital market, the labour market and other markets that we need to put in order to grow economically, is very important, including in order to start the economy and capitalize it more. We need the banking sector in this case to provide available resources. It's credit that has to start the Ukrainian economy, the available resources that we're going to give to farmers, to citizens, to entrepreneurs. That's what's going to start our economy. So you're absolutely right that we're giving a lot of attention and a lot of attention to the banking sector now as a very important element of the launch of the land market. We're doing this completely consciously, it's perfectly normal, it's a good practice, it's not about any of the schemes that you're trying to see here. If you need a more detailed explanation, you've done it many times, you've talked about it, but you're ready to do it again, talk as much as you need to. We have a big problem in the country is that both inside the country and to our country, unfortunately, over these decades, trust has been blown up. This means that no one believes anyone, which means that the cost of money, the cost of resources, is inadequately high. We are now, the government, based on the laws you are enacting, doing everything we can to make the lending rate go down in general for entrepreneurs and mortgages, and in this case to launch the land market. A cheap, affordable financial resource for launching the land market is a critical element and we will not give up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, a very short question. Thank you and let the Prime Minister go.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u88	Thank you for hiding the Prime Minister from Parliament's questions. So my first question. We would very much like to see, in particular, here and the Minister of Internal Affairs, who has a trial term for the President, if he's not here today to explain, the actions of the 2418 border section, which burned the so-called Karemat surplus, the armpits and all the things that volunteers still drive to the east. That's the first one. And the second question. Today they're going out on the street all those civilians who were released on December 29th, fortunately all of them, but they're coming out of scratch in their pockets and in an unknown direction because they can't go back home to the east. I have a question, is there a government compensation program for those who have been released? Thank you. They're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u89	Thank you for both these questions. We're doing this now. It's a long story to tell, an explanation. I'm going to gather a meeting today, and we're going to go through these two questions. Okay? So just to get to the practical plane, it's going to translate everything. Unfortunately, colleagues, I'd love to stay longer, but I've got a meeting with the head of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 10 minutes, and there's a number of important questions that I don't want to be late for. I thank you so much for being able to speak. Once again, I repeat, a very simple, understandable thesis that you and I are trying to "spouse" with dirty manipulations, rains, reasons, trying to exploit what one of us might have less, more political experience. Don't act! We're already doing a huge number of cool things with the President, the Parliament and the government. We are always ready to come and report to Parliament, we have nothing to hide. During this week, we have prepared, completed, as the Ukrainian law stipulates, a report to Parliament. This week, we intend to do it definitively through all internal procedures, and we will send it to Parliament next week, as prescribed by law. We're ready to do all the necessary presentations, consultations, and more than that, we would insist on a strategic session with you. Guys, let's work and focus on changing the country. We are in great need, and we thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, and for having answered the question over time. Dear colleagues, I have an announcement from the last of our events. Next time, the "hour of questions to the government" will take place, as provided for by the Rules. Questions in writing are sent to ministers, time, because. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, it's all prescribed for us, Sergey Vladislavovich. Well, your honor, this is no longer a matter for me as a chairman, but we will. To whom? Right next to you. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the request announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we also have requests for the President of Ukraine that require a vote. But first of all, I want to inform you that I have acquired the validity of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Question of Deputies, adopted in October. The request declaration procedure has now been changed, namely: I have to read the general information. During the plenary week, 293 parliamentary requests were made, including four parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine, five to the Supreme Council bodies, 159 parliamentary requests to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies, 120 parliamentary requests, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership, five parliamentary requests. In addition, four requests were made to the President of Ukraine. First, we have to vote in favour of the request for less than 150 votes. So, honourable colleagues, there is an open-ended vote in support of Michael Wolintz's request to the President of Ukraine for input. on the non-compliance with Presidential Decree No. 874/2019 of 2 December 2019. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:22:01]] For-195 Please show by factions. Thank you. Colleagues, vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:22:30.]] For 211 Unfortunately, the request did not get the required number of votes. Next question. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request by Andrija Puziyczuk to the President of Ukraine to resolve the complex of issues of concern to the City Village Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir region, which is linked to its establishment and operation on the basis of Military City No. 6. Please prepare for the vote and vote. [[11:23:14]] For 229 Thank you. For - 229. Please show by factions. Thank you. Thus, it is up to the president of Ukraine to vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Let me remind you, we need to get 226 votes. Please vote. [[11:23:45]] For 231 Request supported. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request of the National Deputies Group (Shakhov, Majestic, Sukhova) to the President of Ukraine for Presidential Decree No. 948/2019 of 24 December 2019. Please vote. [[11:24:27]] For 204 Please show by factions. Thank you. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. We need 226 votes to take it. Please vote. [[11:24:58]] For 209 Unfortunately, he did not get the required number of votes. And one last question. There is an open-ended vote in support of the request by Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[11:25:35]] For-151 Thus, it is up to the vote to refer this pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:25:58]] For-147 Unfortunately, he did not get the required number of votes. Please show by factions. Let's move on to the rest of the questions. So the questions are: Artema Dubnov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for violations of the rules of trade and well - being on the streets of Electrotechnical in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Alina Zagorujko to the Odessa City Head for the construction of residential complexes in recreational areas on the Odessa Coast Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Urgent Measures to Reform and Strengthen the State. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection, Minister of Infrastructure, Defence, Veterans, Interimly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports, Vice-Prime Minister of Public Development and Territory of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Digital Transformation of State, Youth and Sports, Vice-Prime Minister of Public Development of Ukraine and Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of underprivileged and socially unprotected inhabitants of the Plains to obtain legal services for the benefit categories of the population in notarial action (with exemption from payment of duties and assemblies) and to ensure the continued activity of the state notarial office of Ukraine in the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region. Alexander Abdullin to the Ravensk City Head on the implementation of ownership of the land plot for the individual construction of the Chernobyl disaster-affected village of Sernika Za yearning district of Igor Poluchovich. Paul Froll to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to work out a methodology for assessing the work of independent supervisory councils, the responsibility of their members for the results of their activities. Mikoli Skorka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to transfer to the Office of the National Railway Operator of Germany Deutsche Bahn AG. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Gorvati and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources to the Zakarpatski Observatija for payment of work. Victoria Grib to the Attorney General on the possible unlawful actions of co-workers of the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk Region. Michael Bondar, temporarily acting as director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District Administration, the first deputy head of the Lviv District Administration to repair the road at a distance of 8 km to the Marxian Shaškević Museum in the village of Novosilka Bouski district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of funding under the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 10.07.2019 No.500 for the work already done in the capital repair of the children's music school on School Street, 25 in the town of Busk Lviv district of 536,742 thousand dollars. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public and Territorial Development, the Ministry of Veterans, temporarily occupied territories, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine with exceptional circumstances, the Odessa District State Administration with regard to the comprehensive review of the addresses of Odessa residents in the area with regard to urgent social issues. Alexander Tkachenka to the National Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts of inappropriate and long-term criminal investigation. Groups of National Deputies (Kachny, Skorika, Burmich) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to determine the location of the exhibits of the Chronological History Museum. Oleg Kulinić to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the identification of communal property by land with cadastre numbers. Alexander Kovalova to the Ukrainian Department of State Protection on facts, violations of law, officials of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Groups of National Deputies (Veterovicha, Princely and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of an exhaustive list of laws of Ukraine and regulations of the Supreme Council adopted at the first and second sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the convening of a violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Oleg Kolev to Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Odessa City Head for the Protection of Legal Interests and Property Rights of Visitors in Odessa, Novikova Street, 12. Mr. Andrija Puziyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the complex of problematic issues of the City Village Council of the Radomisl district of the Žitomir region related to its formation and operation on the basis of Military City No 6. Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration for the promotion of the financing of the completion of the construction of the PWI School of Public Education in the town of Zavodsky Lochvitski district of Poltava. Solomonia Bobrovsky, head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory for the listing of persons who are subject to the decommunization law, Bogogololova Mikhailovich. Taras Tarasenka to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the provision of human rights information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of personal data protection measures. Alina Zagorujko to the Attorney General for the illegal construction of housing complexes in recreational areas on the Odessa coast. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the purpose of clarifying the validity of calculations in payment documents for gas transport and gas transport tariffs when living in a 10-km zone from the point of production of natural gas. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Chief of State Treasury in the Poltavian region, on the withdrawal from the Pension Fund of the United States of Poland for Ilaria Holoptsev’s debt of retirement for the execution of Executive Letter No. 440/658/19 of 27 March 2019. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the use of measures to protect the rights of civil investors to build the East Gate housing complex and to bring responsibility to the guilty. Sergija Grivka to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on Gas Tariffs and its Transportation. Tetjana Grishchenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the illegal seizure of the property of the Radomislski RSS. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the protection of state secrets in the field of AT "Urzaliznica". Marijana Bezugola to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on some questions about the reconstruction of the "Natalka" Recreation Park in the Obolon district of Kiev and the use of budgetary resources. Marijana Bezugola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on some issues of activity and immediate transfer of power of the asphalt factory KP "Autodorservis" at: the city of Kiev, Kurenivska Street, 16. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of reforms in the mountain and highlands of the 202th constituency of the Montenegrin constituency. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the mountain settlement to the town of Visnik of the Cherniewec Region. Natalia Prijedzko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on bringing the regulatory framework in line with the accounting for energy and utilities. Mr. Alexander Dubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of full information to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine on the request of a national deputy. Victor Mjalik to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the possible falsification of the decision of the High Council of the Rural Region of Dubrovnik. Alexia Kucherenka to the director of the utility Kyivtéplenergo for the execution of investment programs, the channelling of statutory capital and other issues. Alexia Kucherenka to the city’s Kiev head on the groundless collection of double wages for the export of household waste by utility companies in Kiev. The Sofias of the Federation to the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the preservation of the family house in the village of Chershni, in the village of Winnitz, of the Ukrainian composer Mikola Leontovich, the processor of the world-renowned Christmas carol "Stedrick". Sophia Fedena to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration for the construction of the railway branch from the Severodonetsk railway station to the station of Bahmutovka Donetsk Railway. Maxim Dirdin to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the regulation of the procedure for obtaining documents on basic secondary education. Alexander Danuci to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for changes to existing sanitary rules and building standards in the setting of restrictions on the location of self-service wash facilities in the territory of the population. Sergey Larina to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine for the violation of the terms of the licence of tourism by the tour operator TV ISPATUR. Maxim Perbijnos until he was temporarily acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, on the D.B.I.'s investigation of Transsa Agent. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the status of investigation of criminal conduct against officials of the National Federation of the Bodybuilding of Ukraine. Alexander Bakumov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council for the proper material and technical provision of the municipal non-commercial enterprise of the Kharkiv District Council of the District Children's Psycho-neurology Sanatorium No. 1. Sergey Labazuk to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the application of a zero rate in the taxation of passive income by taxes on the income of individuals for participants in World War II, children of war and participants in hostilities. Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the reconstruction of the Hmelnicke Political College of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics. Illy Kiwi and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs for the elimination of discrimination against orphans and children deprived of parental care who are studying at the higher educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funding for the reconstruction work of the Ljubljana Technical College of the Lutsky National Technical University. Irina Konstankevich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine for the 20th Year Increase in the Expenditure of the State Budget of Ukraine for the Reform of Regional Health Systems for the implementation of the IDB project "Improvement of Public Health in Public Service". Nina Jujanina, head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, on the possible violation of legislation by members of the CERN. One more. Ninja Jujanina to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service on the incorrect application of the mechanism to stop the registration of tax receipts, calculations, adjustments to the EP by the territorial authorities of the DPS. Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u92	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Back to the agenda. Next line is 184, Frost. 185th next? 185th, Lukashev. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Lukashev Alexander, Luganshina. Yesterday we heard a very moving story about a grandmother waiting to open up the land market and sell Ukrainian land. I have in my district 144,000 grandparents and no one has asked me to speed up the sale of Ukrainian land. Instead, tens of thousands of appeals to me as a national deputy asking me to help implement the constitutional right to obtain rations and two hectares of personal agriculture. I'd like to point out that 2 hectares is a decision made, coming out of the population of 52 million in Ukraine. And so far, we need to review this rule urgently and at least double that area. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u94	You insist, do I understand? I'll bet you vote 185. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:23]] Z-71 No decision taken, no correction counted. Edited 186, Volodyna. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, good day again. I would like to point out, however, that if we're talking about agricultural development in our countries, let's talk about education. So I ask you very much to support my amendment, which tells us that we have to complement article 130 by saying that the people of Ukraine who have the right to receive this land have to have agricultural education to do or at least have the experience of farming. Thank you very much. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Are you insisting? 186 of Volodyna's law. Unfortunately, the committee has been rejected. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 187th, Royal. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u97	I insist. Dear TV setters, you're still watching us here in the hall for the second time in a row, trying to sell Ukrainian land. I want to point out once again that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is definitely against the sale of Ukraine, definitely against the sale of Ukrainian land. And here today, Mr. Hotcharuk lied a little bit. He said that the people who sell the pies would continue to receive the subsidy. So, everyone who sells their pie will be deprived of the right to any social support from the state, including subsidies. That is why it is enough to mistreat people. We're holding a referendum. We don't sell Ukrainian land. I insist that my amendment be submitted for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u98	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u99	Mrs. Natalia is actually correcting something else. And the position of the committee is to reject. As for the subsidy, the question is important, I agree with you. This Wednesday was initiated by the Ministry of Economics to change this procedure to consider the possibility of saving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 187 people's deputies. Please identify and vote. It's rejected by the committee. [[11:45:33]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Rule 181, line 189. Here comes Yvchenko, we're voting 189th, right? Turn it on, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u101	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know you can't pass a law where legal persons are introduced in the first instance and there is actually a doorway for the sale of Ukrainian land through the purchase of corporate rights. Just think about it, they buy foreign corporate rights, and what are corporate rights? That includes statutory capital. What is capital? Statutory capital can be shaped by property. What is property? This could be the earth. It's just that a lot of schemes can happen through the purchase and sale of corporate rights. And this, colleagues, means that there will be crazy-crazy actions to take the land as quickly as possible. So all the agrarian associations, they suggested the first stage -- trying to open the market through individuals, and the main thing is not to limit 10,000 hectares as proposed. And where, first of all, they took the connected persons, the colleagues, just think about it, they were connected in the first reading, and then they were removed in the second reading. And leaving a small number of hectares is 500 hectares, 500 hectares of natural persons. And you, colleagues, instead of taking the right steps from the point of view of agricultural formation, agrarian politics, you introduce a speculative -- people who have nothing to do with agriculture, and you enter banks. What are banks? The banks, if you didn't give up the loan, they took the mortgage, they took the land. Yes, it's stipulated, two years from now, that they'll be alienated. And if they don't, what are the sanctions? And it says here that the central authority of executive power, which implements land policy, will refer to the court. Colleagues, this law gives birth to many schemes, and part of it disappears.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u102	Thank you. You're insisting on heading 189. I put her to the vote, she's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:20]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Masurashu, 190 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u103	I'm here. Two minutes, please, and then I won't take another word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u104	How many licenses do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u105	I have nine lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u106	Okay. Turn it on, please. Amendment 190. It's a two-minute show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u107	Greetings from Bukovina, with a little bit of the Carpathians, but they're still very beautiful. I would like to draw attention to some of the problems surrounding this bill. I mean, I think we have a little too much politics and manipulation around him. I represent the 203th district of Chernobyl, where the support of Vladimir Zelensky in the elections was one of the highest in Ukraine, and there our countrymen strongly opposed not only the sale of land to foreigners but also against the sale of state and municipal land for agricultural purposes. [[Applause]] Take your time. I'm not done. Yes, the committee's editorial already takes into account all the issues for our district, because it's within 50 kilometers of the border. But we're all over the country, so in addition to wishing to reduce the number in one hand, to increase control of the correct use and safe to surround the use of agricultural land, I would like to focus on the critical need to predict that beyond the referendum and the possibility of alienating the agricultural land of state and municipal property. And I don't care whose readout they're taking into account, because there's a lot of these, even maybe a fellow Earthman who complains that his papers don't specifically support it. So that's what will allow me to support this bill in my second reading when I'm in unison with my constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u108	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Next item. It's the 191st, Grivko. Don't insist. 192nd, Nadvajchenko. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 193. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u109	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I ask two minutes: a minute of procedural questions and a minute of correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u110	No, no, dear fellows! Let's do it in a row. They're out of order. Either you're grouping, and we understand what we're talking about, or we're going to go after the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u111	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm entitled to a minute of procedural questions in the course of my consideration. Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u112	Please report your revision, the procedural question a little later.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u113	I have a question by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u114	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u115	Could you give me a minute, please? I'm right on time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u116	Tell me! It's time! Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u117	Just give me a minute, I can't see on the board. Thank you. Dmitri Aleksandrovich, yesterday it was pointed out that this bill would be considered in compliance with the Rules. But the bill adopted on the basis of the first reading provided for amendments to only two articles of the Earth Code: this article 130 -- acquisition of land ownership and article 131 -- acquisition of land ownership on the basis of civil law agreements. Contrary to article 116 of the Rules, which was amended by the People's Servants initiative, amendments to the second-reading text are included in the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u118	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u119	Mr. Andrew, really not so, added only two articles, not as you say. This is related to the additional revisions and the increased volume of regulation that arose between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u120	Are you insisting on your right? Are you insisting on your right? 193 revisions, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I will continue. Mikola Tarasovich confirmed that the bill had been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u122	Honorable colleagues, law enforcement, if possible, not. There's no two minutes per procedure. Edit 193, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u123	Dear citizens, my amendment is about preventing the land from being bought by foreigners. I remind you, the President said it was all cowardice and nonsense. If these are scarecrows that foreigners will not buy land, why have they rejected my amendment? Maybe it's not scarecrows, it's scary reality. Mikola Tarasovich, my amendment concerns society: banning the purchase of land by foreign citizens. Please explain why they rejected my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u124	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u125	Your amendment refers to something other than what you're saying. You're talking about Ukrainian citizens who don't have any other citizenship. I would like to remind you of the article of the Constitution that Ukrainian citizens cannot be deprived of Ukrainian citizenship and are protected in accordance with the Constitution and the Citizenship Act, which, in their relations with Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine, even if they have other citizenship, remain citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u126	Thank you. 193 amendment, I put it to a vote. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:09]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Belkova, 194. Please tell me you've been editing a few. But there's a 193 that was Puzichuka, I mean, well, somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u127	194 is mine by number. I was just wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u128	245ths, 345ths, 344ths, 417ths and 611ths.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u129	Yeah. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give me three minutes, and you will not hear me until it is. Three, three.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u130	You told me there were 10 left-handers, a little less.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u131	No, I said three from the beginning. Three. I need three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u132	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! I want to go to this room in a very friendly way right now. I want to explain the essence of my amendment as I understand it, Olga Belkova, who has a responsibility to you, to the people of Ukraine, and who sincerely believe what is written there. It's not a political mantra. The faction didn't ask me. I believe what it says. This right to justice and the possibility of almost the only opportunity for rural populations to get out of poverty. I was born in the city, and I have to say that I had much more opportunities than some Gala who lives in a rural area today. Mr. Solski, according to the Constitution, really all citizens are the same. But the objective reality is that if you take a score from Dubilet, a statistic from the World Bank or data from the World Bank, you'll see that the rural population today has much less resources, and my say that, like me, yes, you have to step aside and give up your right to buy land in order to have the right to buy it firsthand for those for whom it is the only opportunity to work. I totally understand that corporations have perhaps higher economic performance. But they and I have the opportunity to buy at a higher price. The market is free when everyone has equal opportunities and they are not in Ukrainian society. And today, when you're able to buy legal persons, you're actually taking away the right, you have to realize that no grandmother, Love, can buy this land today under these conditions. And in the first period, it must really be recognized that it will be just to step aside and give in to our right. Honorable colleagues, even when a family buys a dog, ask who will walk it, who will feed it, who will care for that dog. It's easy to sell a foreign dog. Do you understand? And the ground needs to be cared for, to work on, not to create a feudal structure where I'm going to buy land, but I'm not going to work on it, and I'm going to involve those who've been humping at it for ages. It's not going to be the perfect market. I'm not asking you to vote for my amendment today, but I'm asking you to get together for the faction and figure out that in order for this reform to be accepted by society, you might have to go much softer than you'd like. And this will allow everyone to prepare and prove that it is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u134	30 seconds, answer committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u135	Good day again. Mrs. Belkova, good afternoon to you. Look, when you're talking about not needing legal persons, and you're talking about farmers, I want to tell you about one thing. There is a farmer in Ukraine. Sometimes, very often, they don't realize that there's a common concept: it's just a person who does agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if I may, I would like to respond. And I'm asking the room to deal with understanding. Yesterday we talked about respect as a defining principle of relationship. So speaking to Ukrainian citizens in the form of "some Gaul," I don't think it's quite right. And that's not very correct in terms of the parliamentarian. So I think all Ukrainian citizens are equal before the law. And our task is to give them all the means of implementation so that they can feel like full citizens. Thank you. I want to give you my word, 195 lashes, Vlasenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't mention you. I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u138	I'm sorry, should I vote on the previous amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u139	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote. Don't you put it? We're not putting this right to a vote, are we, 194? We're just running out of time, so that we don't vote after 12, give the word to Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to acknowledge what I said in my speech, that Gala, Olya and all Ukrainian citizens have the same legal rights. If my mention of the Galah has affected someone, I offer sincere, sincere apologies because I care for her as much as I do for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, 12:00, recess for 30 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] She doesn't insist. You're up now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u142	Good afternoon! Let's get back to our work. 195 Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Head. The "Fatherland" faction against the adoption of the law in that form. The Fatherland faction and party demand the President's pre-election promise that he should ask the opinion of the people on the most important issues. Moreover, in the light of article 13 of the Constitution. By the way, article 14 here doesn't matter. According to article 13 of the Constitution, the Ukrainian people own the land. Come on. You talk a lot about ownership rights. Let's ask the owner. And this amendment and a group of my other rights are meant to say that even if after the referendum we discuss the possibility of selling agricultural land, such land should be sold to Ukrainian citizens in cases and under conditions defined by this law, that's what I'm talking about. And then, under these conditions, only farmers working on the ground should have the right to acquire Ukrainian land, while citizens of Ukraine, and according to other rights, the state can do so. So I'd like you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u144	Thank you. 195 were not included in the committee’s review. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:31:40]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Edit number 196, Zagradni. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u145	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. My rights are identical to those of Galina Volodyna, a national deputy from the People's Servant. And unfortunately, neither the committee nor the hall supported this. And after I'm done talking, I'm still going to ask you to put an order to the vote. And now I want to say something a little different. Yesterday, after one of the deputies from the "Serial of the People" faction, it was said that the faction and the party were initiating the sale of Ukrainian land, because it was in the pre-election program of this political power. I've read the "Serve of the People" program carefully one more time, and I want to say that there is no such thing, not even the word "land" is missing from the "Serve of the People" party. Instead, there is a point that we will put in place mechanisms to influence citizens' decision-making through referendums. So I'm asking you to stop looking at this issue right now, and we need to hold a referendum just after that to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u146	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. The position of the committee was rejected. So I'm betting on a vote of 196. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:24]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 197 law. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today, as I continue with yesterday's questions, I reiterate that when we consider this bill in the second reading, we are in complete violation of both 119 and 120 articles and 121 articles, which provide that the second reading of the bill takes place in an article rather than an article. Therefore, if there was no response by the chairman to my statement yesterday, I would point out again for the transcript that this consideration, which is now taking place, is in violation of the Rules, so I will be forced, even if voted in general, to exercise my right and, in accordance with article 48 of the Rules, to file an application for a non-vote. Depending on the correction given. I ask you to support this amendment because it is for us that the land should not be stolen from our citizens in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u148	Thank you. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I would like to remind you that all the laws that you vote for are adopted under this regulatory procedure. I think that's correct, and that's the tradition that's enshrined in the law that I'm upholding and honoring the Ukrainian people's deputies from "The Opposition Platform for Life," just like Papiev, if I'm not mistaken. Committee position: 197 revisions were not taken into account and supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:18]] For-69
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u149	For -69. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u150	Order 198, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u151	Now I want to address all the people who are now hearing the broadcast of the Supreme Council. First thing I want to say. There is no normal process in this Supreme Council right now. This is the illusion of the process. There is no real discussion. There are no agrarian associations, agrarian unions, the Supreme Council Hall is closed to the public today and to those who know that the Agricultural Land Sales Act is now being passed. And essentially, our agriculture, our farmers and the peasants of the land will be taken away, the land will be flooded with foreign banks. And don't believe any word from the rostrums today, head of the committee or anyone else, that foreigners will have no right to rule the earth. Yes, for two years foreign banks are allowed to own. We're against it. Please put an order to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u152	I'm betting on the vote of 198 People's Deputy Timoshenko. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:54]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 199 revisions, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the "ministers of the people" do not want to hear the voice of the people themselves, we must today talk about the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" being decisively opposed to the market of the land. There were a lot of phone calls on Facebook last night. One of them was asking the "ministers of the people" to name the faction: "salts of the people" in Russian, "brew the people" in Ukrainian. Why is that? Because you yourself wrote in the program that all questions would be resolved through a referendum. And so our 199. "Paragraph (a) of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land reads as follows: "Ukrainian citizens who have been working in agriculture for the last 7 years." Please give your answer to our supervisor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u154	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u155	Committee position: You can't limit the rights of Ukrainian citizens, it doesn't correspond to the Constitution, it's an experience at 7 years of age. And there was no argument as to why 7. Rejection is a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u156	I'll bet you 199 votes, Ducky. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:49]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 200 copies, Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, thank you. Yesterday I said there were two reasons why neither I nor our faction would uphold this law. Because we gave citizens the right to get their land, and that's still possible. And the second is that we solve this problem without asking people without having to hold a referendum. But there are two other economic reasons. One of them I called yesterday is that this law does not allow for a mechanism from which farmers and farmers (small, small, medium) will not have the opportunity to take a hundred percent loan to buy land, and this right will be used primarily by large holdings and the whole land, all the areas will get to them. There's another reason: banks that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u158	Thank you. 200 copies, Kaltsev. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:23]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Edit 201, Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In a law where private notaries seem to be able to verify the origin of money, and there are no restrictions on speculators at all, you can buy the land and not use it, even if there are safeguards. My right suggests that the right to acquire land be strengthened, not just by the citizens of Ukraine, but by persons who are tax residents of Ukraine. In this case, the land will not simply be distributed among nominal citizens who sometimes have multiple passports. And among those who truly live in Ukraine, at least for most of the year. Thank you. May I have your comment, please? And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u160	Thank you. I'll bet you 201 votes. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:28]] For-86 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 202 law, Taruta.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u161	Taruta, the Fatherland faction. I'm going to have a lot more rights, so what I'm going to say is, I'm going to ask the committee head about philosophy. What does this law accomplish? Because for every normal country, the main issue that stands in relation to the earth is not just a commodity, but a sacral, philosophical ethical question. And the main thing that needs to be achieved in every country in relation to the land is three main objectives: first - food security, second - economic growth in agriculture, and third - rural development. What is our goal? When you say what we get. Listen in the hall, 10-20 billion, that's what I'm saying is that one Krivoristal gave us $5 billion. What are we talking about? What will be the economic growth from this? We'll lose villages. We've already lost a thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u162	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u163	My colleague, I want to tell you that food security has been done lately mainly on account of companies, including companies that you don't want to allow by confirming your rights. This is the first moment. And in fact, your amendment, it refers to another -- it's an attachment to agricultural education. We had repeated examples in Ukrainian history, in agrarian relations, where this was repeated abuse. For example, it's until the 13th year of issuing land without auctions on the SFG. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u164	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 202 people's deputies, Taruta, it wasn't counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:45]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 203, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u165	I want to turn again, more to the Ukrainians. Notice who is currently following the process of accepting the rights, that no amendment, I emphasize, no amendment, not even a smart one, which fully supports the national interests of Ukraine, does not vote in the hall. Why do you think? Because there's no discussion in this room right now. There is no real discussion and no vote for the amendments. The law they want to adopt, for the benefit of transnational financial institutions, has long been written outside Parliament. It's long-coordinated outside Ukraine, and now puppets are just stretching it, including imitating the process of discussion in the Supreme Council. Therefore, our common struggle for Ukraine’s land and for the preservation of Ukraine’s sovereignty is obligatory. Please set up a confirmation check.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u166	I'll bet on 202 of Timoshenko's vote. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:16]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Kunaev, 204th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u167	Thank you. I don't insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u168	Thank you. 205, Zalocksky. 206, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u169	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Realizing that the direction taken for the full sale of agricultural land, including to foreigners, by this amendment number 206, we offer to set up safety nets for the wholesale sale of agricultural land. In particular, what we are proposing is: to establish agricultural education and agricultural experience to enable land to be bought; to live in Ukraine for at least 10 years; to live in the territory of the relevant local council where the land is being sold; or to have a confirmed intention to move there; and to have no passport from other states. These are specific safeguards that will in any way help to preserve Ukraine’s national interests and prevent the sale of land to foreigners. I ask that the head of the committee explain in detail why the Servant of the People refuses to vote in favour of the safety nets that Ukraine so needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u170	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u171	Mr. John, among other things, what we have discussed is that your teachings say that you should live where you buy land. Among other things, you have a concentration of up to 500 hectares. Imagine that a farmer bought 100 acres [100 ha] in one village, 100 in the other, 100 in the third, 100 in the fourth, and 100 in the fifth. Is he living in another village every day? Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 206 Krulka. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:26]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kristenko, 207th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u173	"The opposition platform for life" is strongly opposed to the introduction of the market circulation of agricultural land. We are in favour of a popular referendum on this issue. And my job is to say, part one, point (a) of the first line: "the Ukrainian people who have agricultural education and experience in agriculture." Thank you. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u174	Thank you. Amendment 207 is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:23]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 208th, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u175	Constantine Bondarev, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u176	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u177	Definitely against the market of the earth, definitely against the transformation of the earth into a commodity. We are for the development of the Ukrainian village and agriculture to be, but not in a way that transforms these conditions into dependence on foreigners. Why are they turning? Because this law opens the door for a mass population of Ukrainian territory. I made this amendment: paragraph "a" in the first part of article 130 after the words "the Ukrainian citizens" should be supplemented by the words "who have agricultural education or are engaged in agricultural production and have no passport and/or citizenship of other states." This will make it impossible for 73 percent of the territory of Ukraine. Explain to me why you rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u178	Thank you, Constantine Anatolyovich. Edit 208 Bondareva is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:55]] For-88 No decision taken, no correction counted. 209, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, a year ago, we all learned about a country where we would be happy to live. And this is exactly what we heard about the land issue: the formation of a transparent market for the earth. Just four words, no more words. Today we see how it is formed, very active, and the idea of selling not land -- selling all of our Ukraine, our Fatherland. And in this way we can't stay away. And I'm being asked by thousands of voters to stop and oppose this process. But we can only do this within the framework of the parliamentary procedure. So I would like to call on you to be a consistent "Serial of the People" party and all the leadership of the state, and a government that lets us form a transparent market for the earth, not steal Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u180	Amendment 209 is not counted by the committee, not supported. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:26]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 210th, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u181	Thank you. Lukashev Alexander, 113th District, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, I would like to draw attention to the messes that were heard yesterday by the representatives of the People's Party and today by Prime Minister Honcharuk, that the main goal is to build trust, external trust, and that's why we are under this slogan, under the form of trust, we actually have the process of selling and colonizing our Motherland. What confidence can be expressed when almost 70 percent or more of the Ukrainians are not supported, they are firmly opposed to selling Ukrainian land. I was not approached by any of the 144,000 voters to support the idea of selling Ukrainian land. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u182	Line 210, Lukasheva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:55]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 211th. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I would like to raise a painful question that concerns not only the electorate of my district, but not only the electorate who resides in the Triotic region, the Biokurakin region, but in all the areas that they have in their territory, they border with the state border. It's a question of the construction of the so-called "Evival." When it was built and stolen by billions of bracelets, when the auto trains were pulling construction materials for this, the road was destroyed, the road of Djomine-Alexandrovka-Lisichansk, it doesn't exist at all today. And from these auto trains that were building the Hebrews, even the buildings of the people were destroyed. So today the sun shines directly into the house because the walls are destroyed. What will you do? Where is the compensation for those hundreds of acres of land?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u184	I'm betting on the vote of 211 Lukasheva. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:27]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 212nd Clumsy. Valery Sergiyovich, you have three papers. Are we going to be united somehow?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u185	No, it's not. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u186	212th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u187	49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. I don't see why most people are so afraid of the referendum. But it's clear to all of us, we know that if we bring this to a referendum, most people will see and open their eyes that 72 percent don't want this law to be passed. In recent times, I have held more than 20 meetings in the district, and no person has asked me: Why don't you do anything to keep our land from being sold? Today we are doing everything within the framework of the Constitution and our ability to make people understand that "The Opposition Platform is for Life" against this issue. I want you to listen to the people who gave you mandates today to put this to a referendum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u188	Thank you. I'm betting on the 212th Amendment of the Racer. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:53]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Gnutenko, 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u189	Yesterday our faction communicated with foreigners from Europe, France who came today, to monitor the land market. And they asked, one question they asked -- isn't Ukraine afraid to sell out their land and stay with nothing? Today, many Arab countries, China is looking forward to this question. You say, "The fuses are working." It won't work. Today, in one hour, we collect 5 companies, 100 meters around the Supreme Council, that will register fake businesses that will buy land and then sell. We cancelled 205 of the article "Figurative Entrepreneurship," I understand, on this issue that we are now accepting so that we can register and then sell land on them. Come on, you don't have to do this. Only through the compatible referendum that we are proposing today with all of Ukraine. Please put the amendment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u190	Yeah, I bet. 214 right. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:11]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 214's compression.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u191	Last update. For the past 20 years, there has been no law more important in our parliament than what we are considering today. This question is raised at the level of the adoption of the Constitution. And I think that there should be a vote here, not by 226 votes, but by a constitutional majority, because that's the most important question today on the message of the day in Ukraine as a whole. And I'm asking you not to take this decision lightly. Today, under our soil, under those pieces that will be sold, we don't know what the nadra is. This question has not been raised at all, which will then fall into the hands of those who accept and buy these pieces of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u192	214 law, Gnutenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:20]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 215th, Scorch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u193	I insist. Dear Mr. Head, your honor, the citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skork, Opposition Platform for Life. First of all, I want to say that all citizens of Ukraine see that thanks to our efforts primarily to lead our opposition platform-for-life faction, other factions and a constructive approach to the leadership of the Supreme Council, we are still looking at this law more or less in accordance with the Rules. But unfortunately, yesterday's review of the rights and today's, it shows what is a completely unconstructive approach, unfortunately, to the leadership of the committee. We absolutely don't have any dialogue about the questions that the MPs are asking. The committee head says, "The committee didn't support it," and so on. I very much hope, Mr. Speaker, that on one of my amendments you will finally say "please support and vote." I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u194	Thank you. 215th, Scorch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:43]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 216 correct, Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u195	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I asked you a few moments yesterday, you didn't answer me. First. Why is your political power so afraid of the referendum? Why are you so afraid to ask Ukrainian citizens whether they are willing to sell their own acquisitions under the Constitution, that is, the land of Ukraine is an unrenewable asset of our state? The second question I asked is, why don't you understand that today our banking system is completely not ready to credit our agrarians? And they're going to be completely uncompetitive in terms of our competitors from abroad. Question three. I don't understand why completely inefficient economic growth is becoming. You're actually throwing away this law. I'll give you another question. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u196	216 law. Do you mind? We just have 1:00, we can vote for this amendment, Mr. Skork, right? You don't insist, okay, yeah, we can, yeah, we can vote? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 216 People's Deputies of Skorik. Oh, no, the position of the committee. I'm sorry. Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u197	There was virtually nothing in the amendment. Because the position is to reject. And in fact, your questions, we are really fighting for the future and to stop being a "white crow" in Europe, and not just in Europe in these relations. And for the constitutional rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u198	Thank you. Mikola Leonidovich, I'm putting your allowance on the table, 216 revisions, it's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:54]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion of the bill is over. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. I'm sure there'll be a lot of colleagues who would like to speak. Please sign up from the National Deputies for the performance. Please record all factions. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u199	I give the word to Bobrovsky Solomia from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u200	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u201	All hail! Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I'd like to remind everyone of yesterday's statement by one of the producers of the famous 1+1 TV channel, which greeted all Ukrainians who are not tired of fighting to prove, in particular, that Ukrainian language. It's not a problem in Ukrainian, it's a problem in the heads and brains of people who still suffer from underraciality, undervalue, and so on. The problem is, as we were told yesterday, that we lack the tone to make the melodrama sound so as to touch the soul of the viewer. First of all, I'd like to invite Mrs. Producer and all those colleagues who were related to "1+1" and who are working here, maybe on "plus" today, because in connection with the transition to another job, to free courses in Ukrainian. And if that's not enough, we're willing to give them the whole course of Ukrainian to learn the whole depth of not just the everyday language, but the whole intimate lyric that can make them cry. Not enough to remind everyone and, in particular, Mrs. Prospera, who probably didn't go to the movies or see the Dove's Nest, or come back. "Home" is a movie, not "My thoughts are quiet," not "Cyborgs," and then people come out with tears, and that's probably not the question. Not in language, but in the way that one feels it, and yet it shows all the facets of how one can prove emotions through language to such feelings. And besides, few would invite you all colleagues to the poetic evening of the intimate lyric, where there will be exactly the melodrama, and precisely only the Ukrainian, to the invitation of courses of the Ukrainian language and the "E-language" initiative, to the so-called "Study" evening, which will take place on the Podola on February 13. Thank you very much. Take care of yourself. And it's not about the language, it's about our brain and what's in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u202	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u203	Pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u204	Irina Heratchenko. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u205	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. I am convinced that most of the colleagues present in the hall have worked in the regions in the previous weeks, as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Similarly, Maria Ionova, Nina Yuzanina, Irina Friz, Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze and I have been in many regions, and we have been able to communicate with the electorate. And we want to focus on both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government on a number of humanitarian problems. First. Voters ask why does the government run competitions if their results are not then taken into account in the work? And you know, when there's a leadership contest for Derzkino, which is a sector that's been seriously supported in the past years by Ukrainian authorities, and today we're proud to be able to see Ukrainian cinemas with Ukrainian actors, so when there's a competition and a wonderful professional person gets most of the votes that the Odessa Film Festival is doing, but the government's putting another lady on it, who's previously headed some department in the Zaporozhye government, and unless it's running a movie theater, it's causing a lot of questions. Why do these simulations of the contest take place? And believe me, we're going to be very careful now to keep an eye on Derkino, but we're going to ask the appropriate structures to explain what happened there. It's just as bad that we don't have a full opportunity today in terms of "hours of questions to the government" to ask another question about the area of education. We went to Zakarpatta. And in Uzhgrad, since 95, my friends, no new school has been built or repaired. And there's this new micro-region, and it's the only one in the entire area of 19 schools where kids are forced to learn in a few changes today, because there's no way to just expand it. In support of the fact that the New Ukrainian School is one of the reforms that our team has undertaken, calling for a minimum of 25 students in the elementary classes, this 19th Zacarpathian High School is 45, 41 first. So we want to go to the local government right now, which, in the framework of decentralization, has received very serious funding, demanding that a project be implemented by our team, where there is already a school construction project No.19 and build this school so that first-class children can receive quality Ukrainian education. In fact, there's a lot of decentralization going on today, so far it's not destroyed by a new green team, it's still in place. And they should be spent, first of all, on education, on science, on culture, in order to have educated people sit in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u206	Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u207	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, honourable deputies! Today, there are many questions about the debt of wages to miners. For a long time this issue has not been resolved and the debts that exist today do not allow for the full budgeting of utilities and other services. Regrettably, reform and the question go very slowly, as quickly as you would like to do so. I want to invite all the deputies to the working group so that we can work together to borrow from the European Bank, which has not yet been used, about 400 million euros to enable Ukraine to create new jobs. First of all, it'll give those who don't really want to work in mines, get a job, first of all. And this will allow our cities to create additional jobs to fill the budget. And of course, to join in in drafting a law that will allow our coal enterprises to get full pay this year. And, of course, there's a chance for those miners who want to work on those mines that are still promising to be developed. That's the first question. And the second question is what's going on with the mining and rescue unit, the units. Some 290 million dollars have been allocated for this year, and 453 is required. Otherwise, if we don't have a funded unit, about 500 rescue workers will be released to ensure the safety of our coal companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u208	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u209	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I would like to begin by saying that we have not been able to hear from the Prime Minister today an explanation regarding the failure to receive a quarter of the planned budget in January and the issues involved. His explanations do not apply or explain the situation that has taken place in recent months. I'm talking about monetary policy and the huge losses that export-oriented enterprises in Ukraine as a whole have suffered. I want to give you all an explanation of today's authorities that as early as October of the month, the entrapment of the bracelets was explained as a temporary seasonal phenomenon. By November of the month, there was an explanation, and it was probably already a stable situation in Ukraine, and it was explained by the increase in exports by Ukrainian companies and agrarians, including. And in December, there was an explanation that this monetary policy even benefits, reduces inflation to 5 percent and so on, and so forth. What happens in places? I'm sure now all the Ukrainians who hear me, and you, dear colleagues, have been there, and you know that all the medium-sized enterprises where the export share was more than 50 percent have stopped their business. I'm calling on the government, and there's going to be an official parliamentary question about this, so that this explanation that they've given them before, that monetary policy affects certain sectors, they've come to realize, literally in all sectors of the economy, that we have a large number of export-oriented enterprises now in recent years. They've lost their market now, and that's more. In 40 countries around the world who have managed to produce and more in 40 countries around the world. So the short monetary policy will have consequences both in February and in the coming months, if it doesn't change quickly. Next question. The most painful issue now is the situation that has arisen in the work of the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service. If you don't make quick decisions about who should be in charge of these services, what their policy is to be about implementing all the laws that have been passed in this room before, we'll have even more budget deficits and budget cuts. I would like to stress that the automatic budget compensation has been stopped. The whole country knows about it. Does the new authorities hear about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u210	Thank you. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u211	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Today, in the "Rose" section, we still want to talk about a bill on land circulation. The point is, as you know, a recent rating was made by one of the Ukrainian media's largest manipulators, liars among the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the top-10 of this list is the same people who are now speaking out of the Supreme Council's rostrum and telling some myths about the bill. Since we are discussing specific amendments, there is no time and no opportunity to talk about the substance of the bill. I'm going to use my time to tell and unfold the myths that have been heard from the Supreme Council's rostrum in the last days. The first, and the chief, myth, is spoken by certain deputies yesterday. In fact, the bill, written in black and white, prohibits the sale of land within 50 kilometers of the Ukrainian border. It's a total ban. And even the referendum's decision won't change that. One second. We're completely banning the purchase of land to those citizens and those companies that are founded by the citizens of the aggressor state, Russia. The Russian will not be in the Ukrainian market. Third moment. We have really introduced the limits of the maximum area of land in one hand, in the hands of one company -- 10,000 hectares of land. But that doesn't mean that there's going to be some kind of commitment that the population is going to have to buy 10,000 hectares, and that's not the case. They'll be on the lot. 500 hectares, not 10,000 acres, but 500 hectares. On the other hand, the owners of the pies will be able to sell their land — either one, two, three hectares. Appropriately, the population will be able to buy out who wants to increase their land bank or start their own business, to do farming. This question will be solved simply, perhaps without auction, with the consent of the owner of the pie and the person who wants to buy it. The third major myth. Of course, we do not force anyone to sell their land. No one at all. If there's any attempt, any possible raids, come on, we've got a hotline. All Ukrainian citizens can turn, consult, and no one is forced to sell anything. And the third moment. We have indeed made a system, made it possible for farmers to have access to cheap resources for the first time in the history of Ukraine. We've done all we can to get farmers to get cheap loans under 5 percent of the year's, 3-5 percent. The state will cover the interest rate, the state will guarantee repayment of loans to banks. And the myth that banks seem to be able to accumulate resources is not true. Banks will have to sell land.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u212	Klimpush-Cincadze, Ivanna Orestovna. Your Honor, one of the microphones isn't working. If you don't mind, why don't you ask the technician? Yeah, it hasn't worked since yesterday. Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u213	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Today we had an hour of questions to the government. And I asked Prime Minister Goncharuk a question, and I asked him a few questions -- I didn't get an answer! I asked Mr. Potter about this, sorry, we all know you're a proponent in the economy, but you're the Prime Minister. Well, he's the one who said he was a pro in the economy. You're the Prime Minister. Please tell me, why do we have a budget gap of $14 billion in January of the month? One-quarter of the budget. There's no answer, I didn't hear it. Something like that said that the course was to blame for what they thought would be 27 and it became 24, and now we have a hole, well, here we wait, so when the bracelet falls. I asked you a question: well, you're not an economist, but you're an education lawyer. In my time, I gave the Prime Minister the book How to Rule the Government. Well, I take it he didn't read it, judging by the results. But we have to continue to donate the Constitution of Ukraine, because the Prime Minister doesn't know that he's supposed to submit his resignation application to the Supreme Council -- he's referred it to the President, he's done a report -- he's not able to reach the Supreme Council again. I didn't get the answer again. In principle, the questions they don't have, you won't get the answer. Why? Because they're very busy people. And I am addressing all Ukrainian citizens. Dear friends, please, let's not interfere with our government's work, but they actually have enormous tasks. Here they found a barbershop in a building in Gruszewski and closed it down, it's important that the whole country knows about it. They brought together the ministries, made the following "Frankenstein ministries": the Ministry of Energy and Ecology, Economics and Agriculture. So these shells were made by new, young shells made by these strange ministries. Now, do you think what they're going to do? True, they will begin to separate them. I can offer them new ministries right away, you know, so we can continue these hybridization surveys. You can do the Ministry of Culture and Occupied Areas, the Ministry of Sport and Veterans, well, anything like that. So they have a lot of work to do, they're very busy people, they take off some blogs with a cup, they drive on their own. They don't care about the problems we try to put on their heads. And what's more, they have one last mission from Zelensky -- to deal with the municipal payments of the Sharika family from Kirovgrad, because this is a very serious problem, it's a matter of state importance. And they're spinning, they're calculating how much Shark has to pay for gas, and if it's enough, it's "Sharika" to do it. So we don't have to touch the government, I don't think they need to go to the Supreme Council, because they don't have an hour. Let's keep fighting the barbershops, helping Sharik and doing their hybridization, these young shellfish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u214	Sukhov Alexandro Sergiyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u215	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today the Prime Minister did not answer my question, to Oleg Kulinić's question: how are we going to get out of the economic problem, from the energy crisis, from the technological catastrophe, from the environmental catastrophe? We asked questions not only throughout Luhansk but throughout the country. This applies to every Ukrainian. Today, families are starving, and that is true. There is no answer when they pay a salary to a simple miner from Luhansk, Lvivščina, Volina, Kirovograd, Donetskina. People worked six months, they dropped a bone in a thousand and a half. Raise your hand, there's a man in this room who can live six and a half thousand dollars a year? Feeding your children, feeding your family, and buying not just clothes, but simply eating bread. No one can. Let's be honest about who's behind the gang, who's driving coal from Africa, Russia, who's bringing mining, and today they're using electricity, which the mafia is behind it. Who of the oligarchs today can use this? Let's pay attention to the tariffs that should have come down on electricity. Did they go down? No, it's not. Did the tariffs drop on the heat? No, it's not. What's going on in the country? Who's behind the gas mafia? I'm asking, who's behind the gas coefficients today? Who is behind the gas transit today? The pipes were built, the pipes that turned into corpses were built by our parents, our great - grandfathers, and our grandfathers. Today, once again, oligarchs are used to hide abroad, behind gas surpluses of $4 billion. No one can answer. Please tell me, when are the criminal conducts to be investigated by our team, Sergey the Great, Ruby, Mountain, Gold, Toshkovka? Sukhov Alexander applied, and 50 criminal acts were violated. No one's investigating. Who's stealing and cutting factories in Lysicánsk today: Proletariat factory, RTI, Lysicansksodda? Who today robs the country of its roots? Nobody from the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u216	Thank you. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna. He's not in the hall, is he? He's a great man. Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, today I want to focus on how local self-government develops in us. I want to talk a little bit about what major MPs are dealing with in this room and I want to point out that our Parliament is made up of representatives of the majority system and of those representing the party. Majors, very often when they come to their districts, are forced to solve very many problems. We see that really local self-government is now developing intensively, cities are creating infrastructure capabilities. But we need to put together a strategy for the development of the country so that we can see what it will be like in the future, that is, help our cities to develop their potential. Today I want to talk about the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, which I represent. What can be the potential in a city that has a tourist destination? In January alone, 300,000 tourists visited Ivano-Frankivsk. Why did they do this? Because the city is becoming more attractive, the city is doing festivals, spiritual activities, various attractions to attract the maximum number of tourists and show them the features of the Western region. But there are other problems. It's infrastructure. You know that the city of Ivano-Frankovsky, it can be reached by one road from Lviv and we are united by one city. This bridge that we're talking about and fighting about, which I wrote more than four questions that were voted on in the session hall, and I got, unfortunately, this kind of, you know, wild misunderstanding from the Cabinet of Ministers that gives me simple discounts. When we address you in that legitimate way -- a question of parliament -- we expect that we will get the answer that would give us an explanation of what the problem is. So today I would like to raise this important problem again -- this is bridge building. We should remember that our country is developing in different directions — both in the west and in the east and in the north. And today I want to pay attention to the development of the Western part, the construction of bridges. The bridge has the largest number of bridges, and it is the city of Ivano-Frankivsky on Galician Street. We've made repeated requests, the community's already funded 70 percent of the bridge itself, and it's asking for help to fund the state. More than half of what's already done is, literally, a few percent left to do it to finish it. Please bear in mind that we should develop cities in the complex, and then these cities will make us profits and develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u218	Thank you. Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u219	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! Deputy Andriyovich Zinovy, Supernatural, Bogoččina, Jaremčanščina, Otiniština. I want to raise a question and ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Ecology, the head of the NCRE. We turn to all majors in the ninth democratic calling. It is a very important question that has recently led to population dissatisfaction, namely, the question that has arisen in the natural gas market regarding the setting up of a subscription fee for the distribution of natural gas by consumers. Following the entry into force of CNCRCRCR Order No. 2080 of 7 October 2019 on the approval of amendments to certain NCRE decrees, we have a large number of appeals from Ukrainian citizens from all its farthest corners, requiring us to intervene in this very critical issue. In their appeals, citizens complain of unfair pay for this type of service — gas transportation. The size of the subscription fee for transportation often exceeds several dozen times that of the blue fuel itself, which has a negative impact on the welfare of the population, especially the low-income population. This is especially true of new subscribers, households that have just joined the gas network of consumers who are taking action on the economy of blue fuels. I have in my hands a payment of people who consume 6 to 7 cubic metres of gas every month, and from January 1, 2020, they receive a payment of 500 bracelets per subscription fee for transporting gas. Therefore, the National Deputies of Majority Districts are calling for the repeal of Decree No. 2080 of 07.10.2019 on the approval of amendments to the NCRE rulings and to consider without delay the introduction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a bill concerning the rules of article 4, 40 and 41. You all know very well that these articles of the bill were introduced on April 9, 2015 in the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. It is also suggested that the minimum wage be accepted so that people who do not burn natural gas in practice today will not be able not only to pay, to use, but also to receive outstanding cable payments with very high sums. So we go to the appropriate authorities to change the methodology.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u220	Thank you. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u221	Good day, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs, present, citizens of Ukraine! A few words about ethics and morality in our parliament. All normal people want to work in proper conditions, in their own place of work, and we're not exclusive with you. A colleague of ours recently, he is still a colleague, so disappointed that there is no one to listen to him. Regrettably, Ukrainians have become accustomed to this. On the other side of the television screen, when it comes to the essence of this issue, it raises the question of culture, which is the culture of our parliament. Yes, the activities of the Supreme Council are being retranslated to all authorities in Ukraine. They transmit that energy, negative or positive if it's there. So it is no wonder that politicians who are used to working for the media, rather than for the global interests of the Ukrainian people, find themselves overlooked. We know that the number of decibels in our room is much higher than the corresponding standards. Looking at the speaking skills of some of the ancients of Parliament, you wonder whether they are here or in the Flood. Your mad cry even irritates you during the performances. Rumor has it that the electorate of several exclamation points lives in a parallel reality and does not feel himself. And that's probably the problem. Seeing such chaos in the walls of Parliament, the country moves itself toward chaoticism. Almost each of us must have been in the district right now. Thousands of questions, except for the usual ones we have there. People are asking, what do you have in your parliament? But a wise nation in Ukraine, capable of including a regime of turbosynthesis, says: For a dozen of the ancients to remove from the politics of a new successful country, peace would rather come to us in the country. In all of our social issues in the districts of the same situations and in the state as a whole. I understand the miners, their families, which our colleagues are talking about loudly, and 1.7 billion wages. And what was the solution to that question earlier when the Rotterdam Plus schemes worked and so on? Why do I need about 12 billion dollars in nearly six districts to rebuild social infrastructure today? Is this the guilty president of Ukraine or is this the guilty political power of "Serve of the People"? The formerly desperate nation and poverty today have been betrayed, and you are no longer convinced of old policies. We, the majority faction, are able to distinguish between false speeches by the ordering speakers. And our tolerance, our restraint, is focused on the presidency of the Supreme Council, on constructiveism. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u222	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u223	The great presidency, Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, in this room is very often made from the mouths of both government officials and national deputies, especially those who have recently come: the European world’s world. I'm bringing everyone back to the problem that's got a high temperature in this room: land issue again. What, then, is the world experience that does not sound here, and no one speaks for it, on land issues and agrarian issues? And it testifies to the world’s experience of a very wise and complex approach to the question. Consider the figures: 2.5 billion acres [2.5 billion ha] of land to be processed on the planet. 570 million farms are processed, 500 million of them a family farm. Simple arithmetic. Five acres per brother. 5. Why such an approach in the world? First of all, every ruler, every president, every government, thinks for the occupation of its own people. Busy. Friends, with this approach for 1,000 hectares of land for 250 employees. We have agro-holdings, which rule, employment 4-8. If in the early 1990s we had 5 million people in agriculture, now 500 thousand are not being raised. Where are the others? And other farmers, Polish, Baltic, Baltic, and Central Europe, have moved on because of the hardworking Ukrainian people. So what does experience say? The problem is solved as we go along with the next. In these quantities, not sunflowers, grains are grown as raw materials, but they are produced as capital products: vegetables, fruits, berries, animal farming are directly food. The third problem that's being solved is the collaboration of efforts, starting with processing, ending up with optical implementation parties. The fifth problem that is being solved is, but it is definitely the product that requires processing. And processing is an added value, a completely different than raw material. The sixth problem is solved. Friends, the support of agriculture around the world is uh-oh-yo. What are the reconstruction and development banks focused on? What are the peasant banks up to? There's only government funds, there's no population funds, that's non-profit money. Under 1-2 percent, only the state that cares about food security, about employment, about all these issues can lend. Friends, this is a world experience, this is what Fatherland is for. Listen, this could be the first step in land reform. Let's try it. Millions of fellow countrymen have already attended this school in Polish and so forth. The income from a hectare in a Polish farmer, where 2.5 million family farms, is seven times higher than our income, even in agrohholdings that receive 100 centers per hectare.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u224	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u225	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Friday, you see, tradition is supported, not so many Ukrainian national deputies who stayed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the opportunity to speak. The main thing is not only to hear their voters, but it is also a feedback to make voters feel that Ukraine's national MPs care for them and know people's problems. Do you know what the very main problem of people today is, and what do they address the Supreme Council of Ukraine without feeling the appropriate response of the executive branch? It's a question of pay. This is me today, when I saw the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I expected him to come out, repent to us for the wages of the disproportionates that the government received in December of last year. How can a government minister get 500,000 dollars when we have an increase in wages in the economy when we have a minimum wage of 1 January set at 4,723 bracelets? So these are people who have absolutely no morals, absolutely no honor. And today, when all of us went through this problem in silence, I feel that there is not even a conscience in our government. Because the President of Ukraine is the highest official of the state, and this is the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, he has commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to settle issues of disproportionately, illegally obtained wages not only in government but also in state corporations. And what do we see? There's no reaction. We read in the press: The prime minister of Ukraine addressed a letter to the NAC Supervisory Board of Naftogaz Ukraine. Your Honor, may the Prime Minister of Ukraine read the Constitution of Ukraine. The highest body of executive power is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the question of pay is the function of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. How could we have that today? I was just communicating with the University of Kyiv. The University of Kyiv has an office salary of 7,000 dollars and a monthly salary of 12,000. How would he react to the minister of education, a bachelor who had paid about 400,000 wages? Ladies and gentlemen, there must be some logic in these matters. So our proposal for the opposition platform for life is this. The first thing we did in our own time was to ban the receiving of bonuses and the raising of salaries for the members of the Cabinet of Ministers and the top management of national stockholder societies until the full repayment of the debt from wages in the field of economics. It's a simple question. That's the first one. The second question. We have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u226	Thank you. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich. Next? No, dear fellows. Then go on, I'm sorry. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u227	Your Honor, Your Honor, I will continue to think of one that I have not completed. We have now, we have, not a demographic problem, but a demographic disaster. The following year, perhaps after two, the workers will be less than the pensioners. It's a disaster. We need to get five or six million employees home as soon as possible. These workers are primarily peasants. And that's the approach that we suggested, which I said earlier, that we can bring people home, by creating exactly such conditions on better lands, just in Ukraine, at home. At home, right at home. Guys, was there anything else you wanted to talk about? Why do you propose an approach that is not supported in society? The social request for the proposal that was made in the first reading of the Law on the Market in Agricultural Lands has no understanding. Why? The main problem in Ukraine is trust. Trust in all institutions and authorities. People do not trust that what is written will be done justly. There is no positive reform experience in Ukraine over almost 30 years of independence. Started in the twenties of the most developed countries in the world, now in the twenties -- just the second hundred. Everyone was worried that Ukraine, after the collapse of the Union, was going to explode, with such scientific, productive, human, educational potential! The poorest country in Europe, and even among the GNI countries, were also the last to die. There is no confidence that this reform will be fair. You remember the first privatisation reform, and you took this slogan: privatization and everything, because the state is ineffective. Friends, if we privatized five of the six national wealth that had already been privatized, as one normal privatization -- "Crivoristal", Ukraine would get $500 billion. Do you know how much we got from the realization of "everything"? 12! We were expected to receive even more of this in every family, and so on and so forth. Where is she? The banking system. The reform of the banking system. 200 banks started here, they quietly came here, because where mothers come from, there's not much to pay for under a half or two percent of the loans. They came to us, they made money. We thought it was an investment, and we took out when it got hot, we took $87 billion out as a netter, just a percentage. How many Creatures were we supposed to sell? Friends, trust and trust again. Let's start with the basics: our peasant. The next steps will be to see how we develop. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u228	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u229	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovština, Bužčina, Kamyanka Buzhký and Radehovsky. During his speech today, Energy Minister Orgel spoke about the state of energy. And when my colleague from European Solidarity, Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze, asked if the Ministry of the European Energy Community had just been asked by Law 2233 and Law 2236, he said that yes, they did and there were observations. These are the observations that we talked about at the time of the adoption of these laws. We said that those laws allowed the import of electricity from the aggressor country. Even though they didn't listen, they put the country in Belarus, and now this imports are continuing. What is he doing in Ukraine, this import? He kills the generating companies first. Second, he's killing the coal industry that he's been talking about all the time today. And the minister at the speech said there was a problem because there was no realisation of coal. Yes, no, because wagons, hundreds of thousands of wagons with Russian coals, drive across Ukraine. And who does that? That's what Centrenergo does. A company, a state-owned enterprise that is subordinated to the Maintenance Fund, but whose work is to be affected, including the Cabinet of Ministers. This Ministry of Energy has to have an energy balance, so they have to commit to how much to buy, how much to buy, how much gas, coal, oil, gasoline, etc. etc. Instead, the minister says, yes, we don't have the realisation of our coal products, and he kept completely silent that Centrenerego is a company that is now fully in control of the Cologne, buying energy coal in the aggressor countries. Instead, he says that mines will be closed, and all miners will be employed. Earlier, when we met him, he said that they would all build roads. And so there they're probably going to be more likely to be employed. All the government is doing right now is the Land Market Act, these laws that can import electricity from Russia, killing the coal industry, killing the generating companies. The withdrawal of troops from those already occupied positions is all a betrayal of Ukraine. And in the background of all of this, this government, this majority, this president condemns volunteers, condemns volunteers, condemns doctors -- it's the Sheremet case. And literally on Monday again after Jana Dugar, in July.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u230	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u231	Good day, good morning, fellow Ukrainians! Moroz Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Donetskina, Opposition Platform for Life. I want to raise the issue of the state of coal enterprises in my district. Recently, the Ministry listed the first part of the tranche to pay off debts to miners. It's not payback, Mr. Orgel, it's just bullying miners. Sailors are looking forward to the second tranche. The Celidevogilla DP is the Cotlarevska mine, Novogrodovska mine, Ukraine mine, Kurahivska mine. After receiving the money, only 58 percent of December was closed, with 23 million outstanding in December, 44 million in November. Since April, hospitals and weekends have not been paid, and coal is needed and is not available. In 2009, 86 million dollars were owed to Selidewwicil. Surgy Checkout: The amount of money counted was only enough to close 33 percent of December's salary, 256 million -- December's debt remained. The Northdonbassack shaft, the Wizard: only 34 percent of December was closed after the money was received. In November, debt on salary was 28 million dollars. The shaft works on one type of electricity, has 23 million debts, and on February 13 it can shut off the power altogether. The total debt owed to miners is 63 million dollars. But this mine was owed 266 million dollars for the coal that was unloaded, namely the Wood Tower, the Coal of Ukraine. This situation is not explained at all — the mines are responsible for money, and they are planned to be shut down from electricity. The coal sector needs immediate debt cancellations for electricity and tax debts, and fines are increasing for everyone. The state will never get the money, it will have to write off the debt today, maybe the investors will come. We need to put order in order for coal to be sold to the TEC immediately. They're not buying. Wealthy factories in private hands do not take and sabotage the work of government mines. It should be remembered that this area of warfare and coal companies is the only source of income for people living there. This is a mining area, a monogamous area that was built around mines. Under the circumstances, local budgets do not receive taxes. If you leave it like this, these cities will just die. We have to drop everything now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u232	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u233	Dear Mr. Head, your honor! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, there has been a positive development today regarding Danil Galicki International Airport. Mr. Crickley, Minister of Infrastructure, promised that the process of transferring this state-owned enterprise to concession would be suspended. It's a good message from the government of the state, because it was built before the Euro-2012 and built with the state's most advanced technology and completely at the expense of state funds. Today, this business is profitable, where a professional group works and every year there is an increase in passenger traffic. The next thing I want to say today is about a case that happened two weeks ago. And I thank my colleagues at Voice who spoke and spoke here about Mrs. Galina Tereschuk, and this is Radio Liberty, who was affected by the attack and the burning of her car. This event took place in the city of Lviv, where not only journalists but also the public circles of the state and Europe came to grips. Thanks to the professional actions of the National Police -- and I thank General Klimenko's supervisor today -- the suspect was detained. This is a student from one of Lviv's heights. But it is vital that the investigator of this insolent crime be installed. And one more thing I'd like to say today. We talked about trust, trust in each other, trust in society and society with the legislative body. Because of this, there is no need to be afraid when the political forces, including the Fatherland, ask for the Land Act to turn to the thinking of the Ukrainian people, because there is indeed a confidence in the power and trust of the President today. And to conclude on the second part of trust. It's to each other. By the way, blocking the rostrum is a parliamentary way of expressing your position to a minority. But it's not about mistrusting each other and crossing the line. This cannot be allowed because we are viewed by society and set an example. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u234	Mikhail Mikhailovich, with all due respect, but we said that blocking the rostrum is perhaps a minority position, but when the means of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are broken, when they prevent their colleagues from performing their duties, I don't think that's the right approach. I hope that the majority and the minority, as well as the leadership of the Supreme Council, will be able to decide and demonstrate their position solely in a parliamentary way. Unfortunately, we often return to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I do not remember the regulatory norm, the parliamentary norm, the blocking of the rostrum and the obstruction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u235	Am I entitled to a replica?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u236	Yeah, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u237	Thank you, Mr. Head. And I want to apologize if there was a limit to you yesterday. We'll draw conclusions for ourselves. But I would like to draw conclusions from those who do not have enough vocabulary to express their emotions to colleagues in those non-parliamentary and non-lexical words that are not in the dictionary of Ukrainian. These are the Moscow words, and there were no such words in the English language. Because of this, please, we will be tolerant. It's the same thing as offering to pay utility bills by selling something or someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u238	Mikhail Mikhailovich, I'm just making sure you don't go back to your lockers after this. I, if you look at it and remember, I'm going to stick to my position in this regard and to the majority, the minority. That's why. Thank you. Alexander Anatolyovich Kachura
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u239	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I want to address the people of Ukraine right now, because the people's deputies, you see, have more important issues than being in the walls of Parliament, as provided for by the Supreme Council Rules. I'd ask you to listen very carefully to what I'm saying right now: don't give in to manipulation. I remember saying, "He who doesn't remember his past doesn't have a future." So let's think about the historical past, what it was. Let's think about the same situation and what's going on with the land market now. This was once the case in the United States. It was a Lincoln paper. I picked up a transcript of the President's speech in front of the American Parliament. Parliamentarians were indignant, shouting, almost fighting, saying it wasn't time, we need another 20 years, we need to hold consultations, we're not ready to abolish slavery. So now the discovery of the land market we also want to cancel the "strengthening right" in Ukraine. But what do we see instead? We are now looking to Ukraine's new history, when parliamentaryism is not a word of conviction, it's not an amendment, it's not a quality of the legislative process, it's a fight, a pushover, blocking the work of the Chief of the Supreme Council, it's an obstacle to its activities as a political actor. This is what we see. I don't think that's why most Ukrainians voted in favour of President Greens and the Party. "Serve of the people." And I'll remind you that 73 percent of the citizens voted for President Greensky. His program was clearly written, and he was poorly criticized by opponents: the discovery of a transparent market for the earth. I'm going to the citizens again. Don't be manipulative. This law does not provide for restrictions on your access to rivers or forests. It's a framework. It opens and gives you back your constitutional right. And the right is not just to rule, but to rule. No one will force you to sell your land. Once the land market is opened, the rent will increase. And it's not like you're renting your pie in the Chernigiv region for three bags of grain. Your pie will be leased, according to our estimate, between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars. And with this money you can teach a kid in Kiev, I want to remind him. You can sell that land you want. There's no right to do that right now. Imagine if you had a moratorium on selling your apartments: you could live in it, but you couldn’t sell it. Is it slavery? Yes, it's slavery.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-07-m0.u240	Thank you. No, I'm sorry, Alexander Anatolyevich, I'm afraid not. Dear colleagues, I welcome you all! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
