ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you all remember, but, nevertheless, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. On the left, on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:11:46]] There are 253 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Alexia Alexiyovich Potterenko. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to address the Ukrainian national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Nadujchenko Valeriy Aleksandrovich. Valentin Aleksandrovich. I'm sorry. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u2	Good morning, dear friends! Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I would like to make a brief presentation on the subject of the so-called reforms that the ruling coalition and the authorities are trying, under good beautiful slogans, to push through Ukraine and which, unfortunately, have led to an entirely different outcome lately. We're seeing a lot of people in the area today, it's the representatives of small businesses, the FOPs came with us to beg and ask for or postpone, or to change the so-called reform that was introduced by a whole series of laws on taxation of these entrepreneurs, on controlling them, on cash machines. I can do you an analogy of other reforms that have recently been implemented in Ukraine, which are being implemented in a very primitive way: and here I went to Germany -- right there, and I went to Belgium or Denmark -- and there we go, and tomorrow we're going to do Germany, Denmark or Belgium. As a result, completely unprofessional, unthinkable laws are adopted, which then don't just work, and they turn the situation into a dead end. You can see what happens to us today in energy after the so-called liberal reforms that have been introduced with good slogans: huge debts, full responsibility, increased tariffs. You can see what's going on in the communal sphere when our predecessors here in the Supreme Council today are following their so-called liberal reforms, which are not just working today, which have brought the whole sector to a dead end with debts of 62 billion to date, and no one knows what to do with it. Similarly, you can see how our famous team in power decided to lay extra taxes on our entrepreneurs as if under good terms: let's give this chicken some more time to make more money. Dear friends, the world today supports small and medium-sized businesses, the whole world in crisis comes out of the paradigm that, citizens, the more you provide yourself, the more you provide your families, the better it will be for the state. Let's not cut or kill the cow we feed, we're going to get together, let's have the chicken that carries the golden eggs, so don't kill. Think about it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u3	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Scorch Mikola Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u4	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! For more than a year now, the Council has been working on this call, and there are positive points, compared to the eighth call. First of all, this refers to the implementation of regulatory procedures, constitutional procedures, and the second year in a row, the government has been introducing a draft budget to the Supreme Council in a timely manner. The 2021 draft budget was received by the Supreme Council. But what kind of budget is that? So the express analysis that our faction did, we see very negative trends. With the government telling us that it's going to be like a major cost, it's going to be like a gross domestic product and stuff. In three minutes, it's very difficult to explain why it's not true, but it's totally not true. We believe that we can go with this government to the adoption of the budget in 2021. I'll explain why. A year ago, the previous government decided to abolish the strategic list of non-privatisation enterprises. For a year now, the country has been living in a state of completely uncontrollable privatization. An active government sells Ukrainian enterprises, strategic enterprises to the right and to the left, and the Supreme Council does not fully exercise its control role in the parliamentary and presidential states. You've cancelled the privatization control commission and we don't have a control function at all. We don't understand the way, the strategy that the country is going to be developing and the government is going to be. When the government writes in a budget project that seems to be increasing GDP, in 7 months of the current year GDP fell by almost 7 percent. The government doesn't say how it's going to stimulate the key sectors of our economy, industry, transport and so on, that's the drivers of the growth of gross domestic product. We really need to have a serious discussion about the course of the state. As far as I'm concerned, this government cannot represent the draft budget in 2021. That draft budget that's given to the Supreme Council, it's not social, it doesn't act as a stimulus to the economy, and it's completely unprofessional. I think the right step will be the resignation of an active government. Term negotiations with our international partners on the freezing of external payments, because 600 billion external payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u5	Thank you. National MP Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u6	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, MP for the Future. I want to say that for the sixth year in this Parliament, I've been representing a district on the border with the European Union, but this is a mining district. And from this rostrum I have addressed both Prime Minister Yatzenuk and Prime Minister Groissman and Prime Minister Goncharuk on a very urgent matter. In our country, the only mine today is the No. 10 mine. And human money has been invested in the construction of this mine (and it's been built for not one tenth of a year) about 1 billion 300 million dollars. I want to tell my constituents, especially in Novovolinsk, that the new government, the "Serve of the People", especially Prime Minister Schmigal, in the city of Novovolinsk. Minister of Coal Industry and Energy, Mrs. Boguslavec "zero per phase" on this issue. It's not that this question doesn't sound, that no one ever notices that actually now the No10 mine is just on the verge of closing down, it's on the verge of sinking. Because literally by October 10 the question is whether people who have been pumping water out of Mine 10 for many years will be working. I want to turn from this rostrum to Mr. Zelensky and Mr. Schmigal and Mrs. Boguslavec. Friends, would you please give us your vision of what we're going to do with Mine 10? The electorate, who is directly in Novovolinsk, repeatedly turns to this question, what the new authority thinks is how it's going to go, is the plan that we're going to build a mine, whether we're going to sink it, and actually this huge amount of human money is going to be thrown into the air. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Schmigal in the first place. Make sure you get an appointment so we can get it in order. The minister came to Volin to collect all the assets of those people who had been hurting for decades for the 10th mine to be upgraded and clearly stated what plan of action. It's not just a requirement for miners, it's a requirement for tens of thousands of people living in the area to build the 10th mine and there are two more active mines, 9th and Bugs. Mr. Schmigal, give me such an assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u7	National Deputy Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u8	Taruta. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u9	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Despite the pre-election promises of “ministers of the people, ” today’s authorities have completely surrendered Ukraine to external administration. It constantly serves the oligarchs, extracts the last cents from the Ukrainians, introducing total fiscalization of small and medium - size businesses. Today's government continues to crush smugglers. Today’s authorities do not cover the spending scheme of offshore companies. Instead, it introduces a total RRO for small and medium-sized businesses. Instead, it brings consumer-business relationships into confrontation through the cashbek system, raising taxes. Today, entrepreneurs are on the street in front of the Supreme Council, in front of the President's Office. Yesterday was the first action, today's second action. They require a number of things: repealing relevant bills, bills that don't reinforce small and medium-sized businesses as growth points, and completely destroy this class. "Paternity" signed a memorandum, a memorandum of understanding to preserve micro-enterprise development and a simplified system of taxation. We demand that the Supreme Council begin to think like real "ministers of the people," and consider the laws that people today demand, standing on the stage at the Supreme Council and at the Office of the President. In particular, I want to talk about bills that have been drafted, including opposition. These are Bills 3853-1, 3853-2, 3993, which bring back opportunities to breathe today to small and medium-sized businesses. I would like to point out that today entrepreneurs are stressing other requirements when they go out on the street. They wonder how the head of the financial committee today disregards his right and does not pass the relevant laws for consideration by the committee; they announce the resignation of specific individuals. Yesterday I invited the head of the financial committee to go out to people, look them in the face and tell them why it was a total R.R.O. and fiscalization, why do the confrontation between entrepreneurs and consumers over cashback. Instead, none of the majority came out, went out to meet the opposition again, and again answered people’s questions. So what I'm saying is that politics has to happen directly to people. And if you don't see a person as a major asset today in your monopoly, you don't see those entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u10	The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u11	I give the word to Galini Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u12	Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u13	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Ladies and gentlemen, you may all be seeing today how many people from different parts of Ukraine have come to the Supreme Council today. That's what happened yesterday. They're entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs who, instead of being able to work, to pay taxes, to create jobs, have to take part in protests for a year for their rights, to repeal the laws of 128, 129 on total fiscalization and against the destruction of a simplified system of taxation. What kind of fiscalization can we talk about in times of coronavirus and economic crisis? Now is not the time to be fiscalized, but it is time to support those who, before the pandemic began, provided jobs to almost 7 million Ukrainians. At a time when most governments of the world are supporting their entrepreneurs, our monopoly is a genocide of small and medium-sized businesses. I remember very well the moment when my initiative to raise limits for FOP was blocked in the tax committee and it was only here that this initiative was able to stand. So it is now registered in the Supreme Council with a number of bills that are called upon to reverse total fiscalization, which are designed to improve the conditions for small, medium-sized businesses. But they don't even look at them on the committee. Do you know that people are the most indignant? Corruption and injustice. Most of this Supreme Council advocates the interests of oligarchs, not small and medium - size businesses, for they are representatives of oligarchs. The Voice faction is the only neoligarchic faction, and we stand in line for the interests of small, medium-sized business, and we will do so until all the demands of micro-entrepreneurs are met. We demand that entrepreneurs be supported in order to abolish the unfair norms of total fiscalization, impose moratoriums on fines for microbusiness, save credit and anticipate grants for microbusiness, stop the pressure on business, no fiscalization, until there is a better economic situation in Ukraine, until the coronary crisis is over. The government must support, not oligarchs, but small and medium - size businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u14	The word is given to the national deputy of Lopushani Andrija Jaroslavovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u15	I'm talking to the majority right now. When you need to, you turn on the turbines, and when it comes to national security and you get uncomfortable with the questions that can be asked, you include a turboignor. Just like now, it's about creating a temporary commission of inquiry on suspicions that high-level state offices would be betrayed and a special operation of fraud and arrest in Ukraine of those criminals who committed war crimes on Donbassa was torn down by a flood of information from the country's first offices. To pretend that nothing happened for a long time wouldn't have worked if President Zelensky or Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkov hadn't tried, he'd, by the way, now even come out, he's not here, so he's always very sarcastic about the opposition's speeches, especially "European Solidarity," and here he's got water in his mouth. We see the "strange position" of the head of the "Staff of the People" faction, who refuses to give his national deputies, members of the faction, to a temporary commission of inquiry. We see the same "straight position" of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who yesterday did not want to answer the questions of the Ukrainian people's deputies, especially why she did nothing to ensure that the "vagners" arrested in Belarus were extradited to Ukraine while prosecutors of the Attorney General's Office signed suspicions against those people, and these documents were published. All the documents show you won't be able to lie for long. And all the documents that have already been published will continue to be published. I am confident that those who have lost their loved ones as a result of Russian aggression and actions, the criminal acts of Russian mercenaries, should know the truth. They should see the murderers of their family here in Ukrainian prison. But today it is an honor for Ukraine. These are the signatures of these people who apply to the Supreme Council so that the Supreme Council has the honor, the conscience and the courage to learn the truth at last, because there is no trust in the rule of law authorities in Ukraine and the investigating authorities. And today only a temporary commission of inquiry is the only way to find out the truth and achieve justice. We're for the cause of justice, and that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u16	The word is given to Melnik's national deputy, Pavel Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. I would like to draw your attention to the provision of insulin to patients with diabetes mellitus and diabetes. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by the head of the Mihailova Multi-Profession Hospital of Zaporozhye in connection with the lack of funding for a secondary medical assistance link, and in particular the provision of sugar and non-sugar diabetes in 2020. A similar situation in the Wessel district of Zaporozhye is similar in the Tokmatic region of Zaporozhye. At present, there is a lack of financial resources and adequate software to address the issue. This question is particularly critical during the heating season at the end of the 20th year, because, along with the utility payments, our hospitals need to cover their debts. What I'm saying is that the need to finance the heat supply of the Mikhail Hospital, for example, is 1.5 million dollars, electricity -- more than 300,000, water and water -- over 150,000. In total, more than 2 million now have to pay off debts just to pay off utilities. The issue remains to be resolved by providing insulin to patients with diabetes mellitus and nondiabetes. Because in order to provide insulin, more than half a million dollars are needed in the Mikhail region alone. And what I'm saying is that for September only, the sick are provided, but what will be the situation, we still don't know. I want them to intervene in the provision of insulin for diabetes patients and to intervene in the issue of sufficient funding for the secondary medical chain, because this is now an issue that is relevant, for example, for the Tokmat Tokma multi-purpose hospital of intensive treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u18	The word is given to the people's deputy, Zabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, the political party "Golos". Ariev has already spoken. No, no, wait a second, Ariev's speaking. Okay, I'm sorry, then Blue. Just let's not change next time, okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today, thousands of small, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs gathered under the Supreme Council, who are united in the Save FOP movement. Why did they leave their jobs? Why did they meet under the conditions of the Ukrainian Parliament today? They demand truth and justice. They demand that they be given the opportunity to continue their work, to feed their families, to work for many and many thousands of hired workers, because only small businesses today have given jobs to over 3 million people in Ukraine. Today, businesses in small, small businesses are bringing together 7 million people who are self - employed and who are now working in this area. Their demands are sometimes simple and understandable. They demand a halt to the possibility of civil liberties, and they demand that the decisions made in the walls of our Ukrainian Parliament be reversed, which have increased the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. And I am convinced that it is extremely important today that the Chief of the Supreme Council, in order for the factions to come out to the entrepreneurs, meet. And to find consensus, we've made the necessary changes to the agenda and we've abolished the dragon laws that kill small and medium-sized businesses today. It has happened that after gaining independence, the oligarhat ball is ruled by our state in Ukraine. It happened that the oligarchs today determine where and how the country should go. This has happened, not to oligarchs, but to small and small businesses, which bear the brunt of tax burdens. Therefore, it is more important today than ever to demonstrate that in 2014 Ukraine has not just chosen a path to the European Union and NATO, Ukraine has chosen small and medium-sized businesses as a basis for development and as a basis for a middle class of really masters, people who love and respect the country and who with their hands create opportunities for life in this country. So, honourable colleagues, today's "European Solidarity," and I'm convinced that all democratic factions should act unanimously to protect entrepreneurs. We must support those demands of the people gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council today. Because these people are creating new jobs. These people are enriching our nation’s budget. These people determine the future of our country. So let us be with the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u20	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u21	Dear voters! I appeal to the electorate because, unfortunately, the deputies in this room are consistently associated with the crime. Dear voters, corruption continues to kill. At a time when the economic crisis for each family becomes a big problem to pay the tariffs, one of the majority deputies working on the profile committee collects the ivy, thereby stealing from each of you. At a time when our military forces are forced to protect the country every day under fire. A representative of the majority who promised to undo the inviolability uses inviolability. Lying, and that's why corruption continues to kill. Now I'm talking to my colleagues from most of them. We said last December that the transfer of the right to cancel immunity from Parliament to the Attorney-General was a mistake because the Office of the President and the Attorney-General would be abused. Now we see that the MP's integrity is intact, the MPs remain a "white knee," the first class only under one condition, when they are completely under the Attorney General's Office and the President's office. The president promised to plant it. Now they don't even allow us to investigate the crime of the majority. Investigating is not punishing. Investigating. Now, a big thank you to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which quickly prevented the main witness in the case from disappearing, the trusted representative of the majority. He will now give a witness. And we demand, we demand that the immunity of a majority representative who is suspected of robbing every citizen by selling the rights of the Energy Committee. And we have a huge question: Can we be accomplices to crime and support at least one law of this committee? Why? Because the testimony published by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau indicates that this committee is systematically engaged in corruption that this committee, 12 out of 15 deputies, are likely to vote for money. Stop covering for corrupters! We demand that the Attorney General's Office undo the inviolability of a possible criminal. We won't let you steal! We will not let corruption continue to kill!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u22	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Danube, Sergio Volodymyrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". He'll officially hand it over.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u23	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Nearly 3,000 new cases of coronary disease are reported every day in Ukraine. This is a negative scenario that doctors and even authorities have warned about. They specifically said that if the number of diseases exceeds 3,000 new cases per day, the health system will not last, and Ukraine risks repeating the Italian-Spain scenario. Statistics are disheartening. Ukraine does not come from 20 countries in the world because of the number of new diseases. But four months ago, President Zelensky at a press conference claimed that they and Prime Minister Schmidt were masters in the fight against the coronavirus. I recall that nearly 65 billion dollars have been allocated to the government to fight COVID. Today, however, no one knows how much money is left in the fund to fight the coronavirus. The president assures me that the Coronary Fund is complete and he's fine. Instead, Finance Minister Marchenko claims that the COVID-19 fund has been exhausted. And then the question is, where did the money go from that fund? I'll give you an answer. In the pre-election program of the people's servants, it's called Big Building. As part of this programme, President Zelensky, instead of fulfilling his pre-election promises to end the conflict at Donbassa and to bring about peace by violating legislation, is moving around the country and is acting as a staunch agitator in the pre-election race of the "Serve of the People" party. Mr. President, you and your team are indeed sports masters, but not in the fight against the coronavirus, but in the spending of state funds. This is about issues from foreign policy to economics and social issues, you're not just amateurs, you're dilettarians, and your unprofessional activity is a crime against the Ukrainian state. And the local elections to be held on October 25 will prove that you and your political team have completely lost the trust of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, we have completed the stage related to the performances of the national deputies. And now there's a statement from two political forces -- "Trust" and "For the Future" -- a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u25	Oleg Kulinic, 147 constituency, Poltavščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to raise a very painful question about the roads, especially in my native Poltavian. The question is the following. As early as 2018, Ukraine’s Motorways Service had transferred the territorial value of 1,500 miles [1.5 thousand km] to the balance of the Poltava District State Administration. These roads are called "trouble" in the people. During these two years, funding for local roads in the Poltava region was based on a formula, but additional roads in this funding were not included at all. In fact, in these two years, the area did not fully repair the expensive local values that link, for example, the villages with the district center or the populated areas, nor the roads of territorial importance that were passed on to the district government, because there was simply insufficient resources. In general, in the Poltava region, the length of the local roads is 8,000 miles [8,000 km]. And this is the only area in Ukraine that's been given the roads of territorial importance completely without funding. Since 2020 alone, funding has increased from the State Road Fund to 1.3 billion dollars. But what is 1.3 billion dollars when the length of the roads is 8,000 kilometers? At this cost, you can repair more or less 100-150 kilometers of roads. And here's the effect that most of the roads we've lost, they're in a terrible state. And we don't have roads, we just have directions. Therefore, this issue must be settled in the following year in the formulation of budgets for the operation and repair of roads in the Poltava region. Please consider my request to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to the Ukrainian Road Service. It is imperative that additional funding be provided for the Poltava region for 2021 in order to remedy this difficult and difficult situation. I repeat, this is the only area in Ukraine that has received 1.5 thousand kilometers of roads without funding, and two years in fact have not been used properly, they haven't been repaired, so most of the roads in the area have been lost. The situation needs to be straightened out, so I am again calling on the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ukrainian Road Service, to anticipate this resource for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, back to our work. You are invited to consider the Ukrainian Act on amending certain legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 07.08.2020. The following minutes of consideration are proposed: a report by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, up to 10 minutes; answers to questions from MPs and groups, up to 15 minutes; a report by the committee head in five minutes; answers to questions by the committee head, up to 3 minutes (if necessary) and then we vote afterwards. Is there no objection? No, it's not. Thank you. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act of 19 July 2020, adopted by Parliament, on amending certain legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property as collateral for foreign currency loans, was not signed by the President of Ukraine, leaving the following. Its individual positions do not conform to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, nor do they conform to the principle of legal certainty, clarity and certainty of the rule of law, which forms part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. The law introduces in a new edition some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law "On the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Property of Ukrainian Citizens, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency" (Law No. 1304), aimed at preventing the forced deprivation of the sole residence of borrowers who received a loan in foreign currency. At the same time, the proposed editorial does not define the clear conditions and the set of debtors for whom an appropriate ban on the alienation of property will apply. In this regard, the President notes that this may result in ambiguous treatment of laws and result not only in consumer loans in foreign currency but also in the enforcement of decisions of other categories of mergers. Moreover, ambiguity in the application of the law can also be used by debtors in other categories of debt obligations. The president cannot agree with the extension of the moratorium until January 1, 2022, as this will continue to serve as a shaping factor in the restoration of the mortgage, which is an important factor in the availability of housing. Thus, for more than six years, some borrowers ignored the terms of the loan agreement and avoided the enforcement of obligations. This, in turn, had a bearing on the increase in the share of the bank’s troubled assets and the decline in their capacity to pay. As of June, the amount of unemployed mortgages is estimated at 95 percent. At the same time, the head of state cannot ignore the deterioration in the financial situation of Ukrainian citizens, caused by restrictive quarantines caused by the coronavirus. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine offers proposals for a law aimed at ensuring the inability to force the single home of borrowers who have received a foreign currency loan. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans, and vote in favour of them. I would particularly like to note the thanks of the committee, which unanimously supported all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. So I ask the room to support these proposals and decide on the future fate of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Fellow Members, please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u29	Please give me the word of Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u30	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Your Honor, surely our faction will support this bill as a whole. We voted in favour of him during the previous consideration. Yet here we looked at the observations that they were, they're really irrelevant, but we have the main and most important question. We were repeatedly asked by Ukrainian citizens to count their loans for the percentages they had not taken, somewhere in the middle. So for today, the national currency rate is 28, and they, for example, took a lot more than 5 or 8 more people. I mean, it's possible in the future to predict a tool in the legislative field so that people can still pay their mortgages at much lower rates than they are today. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, I, too, share on behalf of the President the warning you have given regarding Ukrainian citizens. And I think this could be the subject of a legislative initiative. At the same time, I would like to remind you that every MP in this room is the subject of the legislative initiative. So if you form such a legislative initiative, it will, as always, be economically sound, because these legislative initiatives are coming from you. The hall will certainly consider it, and we will make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u33	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u34	Haircut.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u35	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I have another question. The Law provided that the moratorium would be extended to the real estate that was wholly or partly acquired at the expense of credit. The president, in his presentation, criticized this formula and said that it was wrong and removed the words "in full or in part," and thus stated that this property should be fully purchased at credit costs. But we all remember how real - estate loans were issued when a person was obliged to make the first contribution of 20 percent or 30 percent of his own, and the rest was credited. Thus, if the President meant just that, it means that 95 percent of the people who took these loans would not be subject to this law. Then I ask you to explain the President's position quite clearly and clearly what was meant when the President criticized the formula: the real estate was wholly or partly purchased for credit resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u37	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I am grateful for your questions. The thing is, this is completely technical and editorial. Because I'm explaining, if you look at it, it was purchased, indeed, in full and in part, and it's left behind, it's purchased at credit costs. Because the construction "full or partial" is inconclusive and it's not defined, which means partially, which parts, which size, which order of purchase. And so in order to remove legal uncertainty, the President made this proposal and offered it to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u38	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u40	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, as we know, the mortgage is not evil, the mortgage is a way to make a loan for the borrower. And the question that I have is, how do you agree with this kind of bill with the President's plan and the size of the mortgage in Ukraine? And we all want any Ukrainian family to be able to take less than 10 percent of the mortgage, but the mortgage loan, let's say it's cheap, it's expensive, and the mortgage loan that you can't get is also expensive, it's the same loan without collateral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u42	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the subject of our communication today, the subject of the President's veto, is a very specific law, not a policy in this direction. As far as this law is concerned, it's written in this proposal, which is editorially precise. As for other legislative initiatives, I, like Alexander Sergiyovich, invite you to become the subject of such legislative initiatives and identify the role and place of mortgages in credit relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u43	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u44	I give the word to my colleague Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u45	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u46	Your Honor, I have a question. The law that is now in force on the moratorium on the acquisition of property ceases to apply 21/10 this year. We know that it ceases to be valid in connection with the introduction of the Law on the Code of Bankruptcy. The drafters of the bill, which we have adopted as a whole, have seen that the standards in the Code of Bankruptcy do not fully protect the citizens who purchased such property. So you actually have to work on that law to be fully protected by the citizens, because that's where they keep going, they're left. Why do you change the term of the statute to six months? What is the point of these changes? You don't protect people, the same rules continue in the code. So I don't see any point in changing the duration of this law from a year to six months. You're doing worse for the citizens. Please explain why 6 months, what does it do?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u47	Thank you, dear Nina Petrovna. I want to let you know that the moratorium we've been talking about has been going on for six years, and the President remains a consistent advocate that this moratorium should be stopped. At the same time, the President expressed his fears that in connection with the Coronavirus epidemic, which had had a negative impact on the financial situation of the citizens, he felt it was necessary to continue to do so for only six months. After that, there will be a halting norm that will overturn these moratorium issues, and we will return to the normal course of business related to credit issues. Moreover, once again, any other issue that is not part of the veto, the subject of this bill, can be the subject of a separate legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u48	All those who wanted to speak, the factions that had been recorded, and the groups. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. No, there are no questions from the deputies. From factions and groups to 15 minutes. Please invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you of the essence of this problem, it's in two digits. 13.5,000 so-called monetary lenders' contracts, 13.5,000 families and 20 billion dollars are the sum of these loans. On the one hand, we can say that no one really forced these people to borrow money right in the currency and take monetary risks. On the other hand, we must admit that the State did not warn them of these risks, nor did the State limit these possibilities. In general, the state did not care about how people managed their money and how they made commitments. That is why we have adopted with you a constitutional majority a corresponding law that has increased the moratorium on the acquisition of these monetary loans. At the same time, the President made his proposals, which Ruslan Alexiyovich had just reported to us. I want to answer something, add to the answers to the questions that have been answered. In fact, we are currently considering a bill on the committee, more faithfully, we are preparing a bill on the debt restructuring committee, according to which investor rights will be protected, creditors' rights will be protected. And that's exactly what we need in order to draft and adopt a bill. So I'm asking you to join the work on this bill, and I think it's going to work out very well both in the interests of the state and in the interests of society as a whole. I also want to ask you whether it's entirely or partly spending money on borrowing property. I want to point out that the President's proposals don't have the word "complete," there's no word "full," there's no such real estate being purchased at the expense of credit. So we can interpret it in whole and in part with you. So I think that the President's proposals are three proposals, two of which relate to a term of six months, and one of which concerns, in fact, an editorial change in the rules that the courts and law enforcement practice understand more clearly. We have considered on the President's proposal committee and have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the President's proposals be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question to the reporter is up to three minutes. Please sign up from the National Deputies. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u52	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u53	I want to make it clear. You're going to shorten the moratorium from six months to six months. What are you going to change in six months to protect citizens? Why do you insist on 6 months, I want to understand. Are you sure that you will develop special standards or laws? How will you protect yourself? Since we always know that the National Bank is against this norm and other government structures against this norm. Will you be able to continue protecting your citizens in six months?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u54	Nina Petrovy, you and I understand that this is a very difficult question, that this is a matter of compromise between the interests of those people who took loans in exchange, the interests of the state and the interests of another banking market, which, we know, is taking a firm stand against any prolanges in general and against this approach in general. You and I should be wise to find this compromise. And the term that we're not proposing, but the President's proposing, is just enough, this six months, we think, to compromise the interests of the state, business and society in a way that no one is dissatisfied with. And I think we can do that on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u55	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u57	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'd like to speak to the reporter. You said in your statement that the President's amendments were purely technical. As a result, more than two months of material possessions were taken away. Do you think these essentially technical amendments are worth the pressure that our citizens have felt from the banks that have already exploited these poor people and the banks that robbed our people? Who took their class eight bracelets and didn't even return on course 27 at the time? Thank you for your attention. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u59	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for asking. Perhaps we should take a closer look at the matter. The moratorium hasn't slipped yet. There's not a moratorium yet. The moratorium is still in effect. So no banks, no "cows" of the Ukrainian people are bringing any property now. So let's not invent myths and let's not invent fairy tales. So we're talking to you about the fact that we're continuing the non-transitional moratorium for another six months. And that's a normal compromise. About what we just talked to the previous National MP, we talked to you about compromise. When we have to compromise between society, business and the state. I'm sure we'll do it together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u60	Time's up. Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. Please invite the national MPs. Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, I remind you that we should put each of the proposals to a vote, it should win 226 votes, and then we vote again in favour of the law – 226. I remind you that this bill waits for many people, it's worth supporting in order to support people who, in difficult circumstances, in a difficult crisis, a coronary situation, need the help of the state, need the help of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready. Three Presidential proposals. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on proposal number one. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:52]] For 261 Decision taken. I'm betting on vote number two, the President of Ukraine's proposal. Please support and vote. [[11:10:15]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I remind you that if one of the proposals is not supported, then 300 votes will be required, otherwise the law will go to work, and that will be your responsibility. I'm just reminding you of that. I'll bet you a vote. No, voting in the Supreme Council is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. I'm betting on vote number three of the President of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[11:11:02]] For 268. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Moratorium on the Recruitment of Ukrainian Citizens' Property, Provided as Foreign Currency Loans, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 07.08.2020 (Registration No. 3640). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:12:03]] For 297 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 3, "Party for the Future" – 9, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 9. Thank you very much. The law has been passed. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Law of Appeal. Apologies, the draft Decision to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to provide the population of the Donetsk region with unbreakable water supply (registration number 3835). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:13:03]] For 261 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for discussing this issue in the session room today. This is a very topical and very painful question that needs an urgent solution. The question is that the last few months in most of the population in the Donetsk region have resulted in a catastrophic water supply situation due to the almost 100% wearout of water networks today. Hundreds of thousands of people in Donetsk suffer from lack of water. And this is when we have the Coronavirus epidemic, that's when people live in combat conditions, and more people have been deprived of their voting rights. Therefore, we ask the hall to consider this determination carefully today and ask the hall to support our offer. This appeal to the government to urgently take the necessary measures to support people today to provide water to ensure their normal living conditions. Because UNICEF and the UN have decided that more than 3 million people today are deprived of drinking water. Over 500,000 people are children. And that's why today, in our hands, it's still an opportunity to pay attention to the government, to force the government to resolve this issue. We've proposed an algorithm, like today, bringing all our efforts and opportunities together, to make sure that people have water so that today we have the capacity to provide the necessary sanitary and epidemiological standards. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" refers to every Ukrainian national deputy today to support this decision and resolve this most painful issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u62	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u63	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs! The committee at its meeting on September 2nd reviewed the decision, adopted it unanimously, and we ask the entire Parliament to vote in favour of the ruling. Honorable national MPs, parliaments of various convocations have always been united and supported the allocation of additional funds to the Donetsk region. This situation was definitely not yesterday or yesterday. But unfortunately, for us, the Cabinet of Ministers does not respond to numerous parliamentary appeals signed by national deputies from different factions. We've made decisions to the committee, and as head of the committee, as a person representing the Donetsk region in the Ukrainian Parliament, I'm addressing you. Vote and support this decision, which will allow the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate funding in various water programs to the Donbas utility. This is a very important question for the inhabitants of the entire Donetsk region. Therefore, given the importance and accuracy of the practice of dealing with the specific problems of the people of Donetsk, Lugansk, and other areas, we have demonstrated in the committee. Today, we want this vote to show a real attitude toward all the inhabitants of the Donetsk region. So, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour. Support the people of the Donetsk region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register: two for, two for, and two for the factions. Chigos Ahtem. Gerasimov? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Is there a water supply problem in the Donetsk region? Yes, there is. Should It Be Decided? Yes, it must be decided. That's why "European Solidarity" will support this decision. But you know what the authors of the law didn't say today from this rostrum: and why there is this problem. And it was not mentioned that this problem exists primarily because of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. That's why it exists today. And those in the Donetsk region, who represent the Donetsk region, are well aware of that. And the cynicism of the situation is that this is proposed by those who communicate freely with the leadership of the aggressor country. And it was said from the rostrum that it was the weariness. And I'd like to remind the Hall of Honor and the honourable Ukrainians, and who was in power before the war in the Donetsk region from the 10th to the 14th? You know, I think it was the Party of Regions. And many members of this party are among the authors of this decree. That's why let's call it right, let's call it right, because Russian aggression has become the key cause of water problems in Volnovas, Mangus, Nikolai, Mariupoli, Torretsky, Constantinians, Friends today. And to support this decision, "European solidarity" will be because we support the people of Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Fuck. Oh, for Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u67	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, honourable deputies! 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. I've lived in this area for 53 years, and I know water issues like nobody else. And unfortunately, today, MPs who don't support this issue of water supply to the Second Donnet Waterline know that the Second Donnet Waters don't come to the collision line. He supplies water to those cities that today do not go to Donetsk as such. Actually, this donutic water was built in the 54th year. He's already a hundred percent worn out. And the policy issue here is not at all, there are people living there who don't get water on Sundays at all, especially in summertime. And I'm confident today that all of Donbas is watching us, and I hope that this room will support the question of the plumber in general on northern Donbas. And I hope you support that question. Sadly, some areas in the Donetsk region today do not vote. I don't think we're going to be able to give water, we're not going to be able to provide the money that's going to be budgeted next year, which is going to be able to repair the Second Daughter's water supply. I'm sure the hall has consciousness, and we'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very big problem today with the water supply of the Donetsk region. Unfortunately, since the 15th year, nothing has been done by the local or central authorities to restore this very important infrastructure facility, which provides water that is not occupied, and the territory that we control, millions of people, is about 4 million people. This is both the north and the south of the Donetsk region. The aggressor is constantly destroying, unfortunately, the victims, but much of the money that was spent on regional development, and in the ministry, not a penny went into repairing this very important object. What's more, I want to go to the People's Service, a month ago, the President of Ukraine was with the President of Switzerland, and they saw the state of this important object. Moreover, the Swiss help, the Red Cross helps, only the Ukrainian authorities do nothing. And that's why it's very appropriate. I would take political interest here in who will be dividends, and most importantly, dividends should be for the residents of Donbas. So please let's support it. And the other thing that would be right is that there's a mutual concern about electricity, and there's huge debt. Today, many destroyed pipelines that do not fully provide for the city, including a major problem today with Mariupul. So please, let us support and try to ensure that the government responds at the right time and allocates funds for repairs. Thank you. The Fatherland Party, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Sussun Inna Romanovna Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska Bobrowski. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u71	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, it seems to me that it is obvious to everyone that the Lugansk region after the beginning of Russian aggression in the territory of these two areas should look exemplary with all the maximum comforts for people who have moved or remain there in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. And when we're talking about the Second Daughter's Waterline, it's strange to me, frankly, because these things don't happen spontaneously, and problems, so much systemic and deep, and so much cost-effective, don't happen in the last month-a-half or the last year or two. So I have a question about the political power that wants to make an absolute pianist for myself and a populist promise to people, and I remind you, this faction has the largest millionaires on the list of "top-100 of the richest people of Ukraine," who want to solve the issue with a simple appeal to Kabmin from the Supreme Council. Question: What was done five years ago? That's not a new problem. And what has been done for the last 10 years when this political power has been in power, and why has there not been attention given to the reconstruction and the completely capital repair or replacement of pipes in one or another branch of water supply and, in principle, the utilities of Donbas? Why was this not decided? So for us, these questions remain populist slogans right before the elections, which are already in the month on the nose. And the Voice faction will abstain from voting, and we think it's going to be the principle of the Kabmin case to bring in, really put water issues into the budget. That's the first one. The other one. It seems to me that the President and Mr. Prime Minister would have to put it in the order of the day for the following year in the budget and without turning from one faction to the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u72	Thank you. "Serve of the people," "Trust." I see. Wait. Now we have three speeches with a motive, and then we go to the vote. After three minutes of voting, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u73	Thank you. Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I'm really sorry that we have to go to the Cabinet of Ministers to solve this problem. I have a question for the previous speaker. Please tell me, and you've managed to live for one day, have you tried to live without water, please? What if such a problem arises in Western Ukraine, perhaps you too will not turn to it? Or maybe there's some people out there who don't live like you used to in your electric field, as you think they are. Stop dividing people into right and wrong, and the people of Donetsk and Lugansk regions deserve the same rights as all Ukrainians. And they deserve water in their homes. And there's nothing so fantastic about that. That's what the state has to provide. And the Cabinet of Ministers has to make this decision and put it into the budget, remember, without any appeal or pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u74	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u75	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I support my colleagues that the appeal of the Supreme Council is of a political nature, but the question under consideration lies in the authority of the Cabinet. The appeal of the Supreme Council of Kabmin may decide to replace the water pipes to supply the Donetsk region’s population in a controlled area and without a given decision. And the question of water supply in the Luhansk region in Lysichansk. Consider this a reference to Kabmin. But the trust MP always supports Donbas, so we're going to vote in favour, but in the future, we have to do this the other way. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u76	The last performance is Taras Ivanovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, before the elections, such an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers is certainly appropriate when it comes to obtaining voter votes. That's the first one. We understand the inaction of a government that can't solve this question, whether it wants to solve this issue. That's two. We're going to support this draft decision because only by understanding one thing: that the reconstruction of the pipelines will relate to a purely unoccupied part. At the same time, we know that the only cause of the Water Donbas water accidents is the shelling of illegal weapons formations. And as long as we're at war, until we can achieve a truce, we're going to have a watershed, because no one's going to provide, no one's going to be able to get, and obviously, the Cabinet of Ministers is not going to be able to provide an unbreakable supply of water in that situation. We need to understand that we have to subsidize our own citizens, not terrorists and gang members. That's why we're looking at these questions here. In this case, we accept the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting for a proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance on Access to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure that the population of the Donetsk region is provided with uninterrupted water supply (registration number 3835). Ready to vote? Invite people's deputies. Please support and vote. [[11:30:24]] For 312 Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 211, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 28, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 16, "Party for the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 11. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Order on Changes in the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 4077). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:31:14]] For 257 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend. Danilo Alexandrovich, can I ask you to take your seat on the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u79	Honorary colleagues are known to have passed the term of office of one of the Board members of the National Bank. In this regard, the Supreme Council Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs conducted a competition to replace the office. Four candidates were submitted. We talked to all four candidates. And of them, we chose on the committee a large majority of the votes, only three of them held back, Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich. Why did I personally vote for him? Because it's a person who's worked almost all his life in banking, a person who's formed as a professional in banking. A person who is respected in the banking sphere and a person trusted by bankers. A person who knows the banking relationship from the inside. I am convinced that of the candidates that have been submitted, this is a better candidate. In addition, Vasil Mikhailovich was a national deputy and worked at the Committee on Finance for a vocation, where he also dealt with relevant issues. I think it's a person who will be worthy of representing the Supreme Council at the National Bank Council and will be able to develop this independent institution in the direction in which we all hope. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the appointment of Vasil Gorbal as a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Without discussion, can we vote? Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on Changes in the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine (Registration No. 4047). This issue has long been in order for the Supreme Council to be in order for it to be resolved today. 4077. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:35:27]] For 249 Decision taken. Congratulations, Vasil Mikhailovich! Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 199, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 2, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 15, "The Future Party" – 8, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 10. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (Registration No. 3335 and Alternative 3335-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:36:39]] For 228 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Motovílovac Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u81	Friends, why we decided to initiate this bill. ARMA was created four years ago by the ninth call. We analyzed how it works, what are the problems. When the legislators introduced the project, they did not understand the difficulties the ARMA would face. I want to give you some examples. For example, the cash that was received by the state, the biggest bribe, is $6 million, and it's in the organs that have to transfer it to the ARMA. According to our ARMA bill, these funds are translated into bank accounts, they receive income, and the funds themselves work on the Ukrainian banking system and can be used to lend to the Ukrainian business. We saw the following problems in the work of the ARMA. We don't see transparent property management, we don't see transparent sales. And these problems are in the legislation, and now we're changing it. We are changing this law to make the new leader of the ARMA, who will be elected to the competition, realize that the Supreme Council is ready to change the law and be its ally in change. We want the ARMA not only to receive budgetary funding but also to be a budget donor. That's why we initiated this bill. I am grateful to the committee for its work and for its support. I ask you to support all the halls of this bill for the sake of transparency and efficient use of its property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u82	The word is given to Igorovny Yanchenko, deputy head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy. Please, Galina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u83	Can I have four minutes off the committee, I'm speaking, and how is the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u84	Please give me four minutes. She's like an author and she's like a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I know there are many questions about this bill. So I'm asking you to listen very carefully to my speech right now. Your opinion is Bill 3335-1, this is an alternative bill to improve the effectiveness of the ARMA. A professional committee on anticorruption policy recommended that the alternative bill be supported on the basis of the first reading. I want to say right away that this bill needs to be ruled seriously. That is why the anticorruption committee decided to consider it for the second reading under article 116 of the Rules. In other words, amendments can be made both to the rules that have been the subject of regulation of the bill and to other norms. This bill will need to be worked on. And I am pleased to see that this bill has already been carefully discussed by such deputies as Sergey Vlasenko of Fatherland, Jaroslav Jurchisin of the Voice and Alexander Tkachenko and Andri Bogdanec of the Servants of the People. I urge colleagues from other factions to join in the same way, and to make this bill perfect for the second reading. Now why do we have to work on this bill? Colleagues, because the ARMA, the Agency for the Search and Management of Assets, which was created as an anti-corruption body, is now a spectacle. A theatre for Ukraine and a big problem for both the economy of Ukraine and business. The history of my work on this bill began almost a year ago, when a great conference dedicated to investment in Ukraine came to me by a great international French investor and told me a sad story, a terrible story about how they would buy a piece of clothing, 27 hectares of land for 200 million dollars. But the D.A. arrested the area, turned it over to the court, and transferred it to the ARMA. Do you know what happened next? ARMA sold this area in five days in violation of her deadlines and sold it 22 times cheaper than the investor’s. It's unacceptable. And so one of the rules that needs to be changed before the second reading is to stop the ARM from selling assets that don't go bad before the court's verdict is passed. Unadmissible father activities of the ARMA. And to this day, only you and I, as national deputies, have made changes to the laws, can stop this dissension of the Agency's search and asset management. Actually, another thing I'd like to point out, and that's why I'm addressing all the MP factions and groups in this room, to tell you that the Interim Special Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Investments, which I run in Parliament today, is receiving some complaints from business. And you know what's scary? That one in three, one in four complaints directly or indirectly applies to the ARMA. Business is asking them to either help them free their asset that went to the ARMA or not to allow them to get to the ARMA. Again, if we don't now vote on this Bill 3335-1, this situation, this disgraceful situation, will be preserved. Do you understand? So these changes are necessary. Thank you for listening. And I sincerely hope for your support. Only you and I, as law makers, can change the situation surrounding this seemingly anti-corruption body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Galina Igorovna, you've basically forgotten to say that the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u87	Yes, colleagues, I said, two moments, a committee proposal. First. The committee recommends that the alternative bill itself be supported, i.e. 3335-1. And the second. The committee decided to consider this bill for the second reading (now the first reading we vote with you), until the second reading under article 116 of the Rules. I mean, it can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u88	All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I have a request, during preparation for the presentations, to enter into the rules of procedure provided for by the Supreme Council. No, we didn't. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the factions. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u90	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, only two words are meant to characterize the work of the ARMA – the search and management of the assets on which the arrest was made. Managing an asset is the first thing that saves the asset's value, and it's by no means selling it out. What is happening in Ukraine, and what is ARMA in Ukrainian? ARMA realizes this asset. In other words, the ARMA in Ukrainian is the sale of arrested assets to friends, partners, and individuals at almost no cost. If you imagine a situation where an asset has already been sold and a person under investigation is found innocent, what protection of property rights, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, can we even talk about? The right to implement the arrested property, which exists in the ARMA, must be realized only after the indictment has been carried out when the order provided for in Ukraine’s legislation has been proven guilty and the person has been convicted of a criminal. Unfortunately, this critical moment is in no way resolved by the bill. On the contrary, the main bill proposes a new position that the ARMA can implement the assets arrested if the owner of the assets has refused to pay the cost of saving them. However, first of all, the owner has no obligation to retain his asset at the request of the ARMA. And secondly, before the verdict, there's a presumption of innocence. Given that the alternative bill contains positive points, and provided that this bill is further developed with our observations, the "Paternity" faction fully agrees to support this law in a second-reading vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u91	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u92	I'll pass the word to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u93	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, what is the ARMA today? ARMA today is a tool for gaining active power. And ARMA today is a recording tool. You know, there's armchairs like this, and there's armchairs like this. What are they doing? They arrest the property and sell it quickly. Moreover, the ARMA is now being used to redistribute the media market in Ukraine. ARMA has already passed on "The Ukrainian Media Holding" to the structures of an oligarch, who is a great friend of our President, it is Igor Valeriovich Kolomoyski. We see an ARMA today just someone, you know, jerking off, just attacking the "Primary" TV to arrest him and still get him angry, I think, with the same oligarch. And we realize that this will continue. So we have no right to support such things. We're asking the authorities to stop using the ARM for their own wealth and to raid the state. We demand that the ARMA really become a mechanism when the state returns money that someone has received in a corrupt way rather than being used to simply satisfy their desire to seize someone's property, especially when it is used to advance freedom of speech. So our faction will hold on to this law. And once again, speaking to Vladimir Zelensky, I say, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, stop using state institutions to enrich your friends and fulfill your own demands to be exalted as the greatest leader of the modern world. Masha, Andrew, and with them, we have to stop this and not use held institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u94	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u96	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, where did the analogy of our ARMA, our Ukrainian, come from? This is an analog of an American similar agency that was created for the actual arrest and immediate response of property, attention, drug cartels. What Does It Do? ARMA in Ukraine? You know, I've already, in carrying out your assignment as chairman of the Freedom of Speech Committee, encountered that the ARMA has been used twice to control and influence the editorial policy of the 112 channel. There's probably some people here who can talk about my involvement. But what the same attempt was made with regard to the "Primary" channel is no longer likely to be blamed for my involvement. I am very sorry that the State institution is being implemented today as a repressive instrument for the destruction of freedom of speech, including. We are building a state where the rule of law should prevail. From this point of view, we have a definite position: we will not vote. But you know, I am outraged by the vote of one political faction, which, by the way, even its leader was unable to hold back, in connection with the previous vote on water supply in Lugansk. I want to read you something. "We must learn to hear ourselves from the Ukrainians -- not from Galician, not from Bucovian Ukrainians, but from Ukrainians without official borders." Do you know who said that? That's what John Franco told you, you fool. And your vote is a disgrace to you, not a disgrace, that is! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u98	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, then Jurchinshin, Aresonkov from Trust. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u99	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, look, we will now go to the square before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where hundreds of people representing the FOPs are gathered. And we have this request and the leaders of factions and groups who spoke on the Conciliation Council, not to forget, to remind the financial committee immediately to consider Bills 3853 and to put in session hall 3993 in the same way. Because people and small and medium-sized businesses won't forgive us for this, this one is a troublemaker who is now coming out of the ordinary citizens of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. We all know the value of organs like the ARMA. We want to actually improve the functioning of those sufficiently corrupt organs right now. We've encountered them the same way, we've seen them manage the property they've arrested, and then they want to sell it for the ivy. And we're looking at the root of the problem, and we see in the root that the content of the term asset management in this bill wants to change to "activity and ownership, use and management of assets." What's "involvement"? According to the Ukrainian Civil Code, the right to own, use and dispose of property consists of the substance of ownership of the property under arrest. And this looks unacceptable from the side of the ARM because it creates additional major corruption risks that we can now put into these new bills on so-called reform. And it's also a question of transparency in these bills. Another question. We find it unacceptable to suggest exclusion from the annual report of the National Agency of Information on the Account Cost of Searched Property, not enough information solely about quantity, give cost, not just quantity. And the last. This is a special national agency fund. What's the fund? The creation of non-budgetary funds by government authorities is not allowed, as is the prohibition on the possession of extra-budgetary special accounts. In view of this, I am surprised that the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee has not issued its negative recommendations on two bills. We vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Aresonkov, after that, I see Jurchisin and we vote. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, well, of course, the "Trust" MP Group understands the need to address issues related to the activities of this national agency. At the same time, I draw your attention to the very serious remarks made by the experts of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Let's say how we react to the rule that once the property is sold, the person who bought it, in the event that the ARMA's actions are declared illegal, this person doesn't return the property. This is a very contradictory norm because the Constitution defines the inviolability of citizens' rights, the right to legal protection of the individual, and so forth. There are still a number of rules that raise doubts: the same access to information with limited access, its mechanism itself, and so forth. So I'm paying attention to that, and, of course, I need to, once again, help the agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u102	Thank you. The final performance, the final performance is Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, and we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u103	Yes, thank you very much. I'd like to break some myths. In fact, ARMA is the analog of French and European asset management agencies that have taken away the ability of the prosecution and the investigator, who, for example, was responsible for an arrested factory, not actually carrying, but simply becoming an accomplice to its theft, engaged in corruption. And this is one of the elements of our visa-free program. Yes, we need to improve the work of this agency, especially by strengthening their ability to ensure that all sorts of wicked ones do not escape responsibility. We realize that he's not perfect, we'd be more supportive of the basic bill, but for the consolidation of the work, we're ready to vote in the first reading for an alternative. The fight against corruption must be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of the Ukrainian National Agency on the detection, search and management of assets derived from corruption and other crimes (registration No. 3335-1). Ready to vote? Yeah, for a decision, yeah. Dear colleagues, indeed, a representative of the committee, speaking, pointed out, so I'm going to rephrase now. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for preparation for second reading in accordance with 116 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (registration 3335-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:27]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 176, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "The European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 16, "The Future Party" – 0, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 3, "the Non-Factional" – 4. I'll bet you a vote. Please be prepared. I'm voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the project. No, let's do it first. As chairman, I put it in the order I always put it in. Okay? Thank you. Proposal to refer the draft Law to the Committee for Re-reading Registration No. 3335-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:46]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there's been an application for a break with a replacement. Okay. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u105	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. An announcement was made for a break with a replacement for two MP factions and groups. Who? Ustinova? Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, this call to parliament came here on the slogans of fighting corruption. For you, we've been voted to keep from stealing in this country. We all talked, promised our voters zero tolerance for corruption. But it seems that so many people in this room have forgotten about it. Everyone saw that video yesterday, which was published by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau about a colleague, Mr. National Deputy Jurchenk. Let's face it, Jurchenko is now a lousy sheep in this Parliament. This is the man who has now disgraced this calling of this Parliament by his actions. If we're all down on the brakes right now, and we're going to close our eyes on the fact that there's no pattern of crime, there's no evidence. We all saw the video yesterday. And not just us, all of Ukraine has seen all of your constituents. If it goes down on the brakes now and says that, yes, the Attorney General was right and there's nothing there, it's to support the corrupts, it's to support Jurchenk's assistant, who was picked yesterday to take a precautionary stand-by, and he's sitting at the station. You know that in court, in an anti-corruption court, the judge found sufficient evidence and based on suspicion. And in the same suspicion, it's your colleague, National Deputy Jurchenk. The court has found that this evidence is sufficient, and now his assistant is sitting at the station. And Jurchenko doesn't sit because he doesn't have a suspicion, because the Attorney General lied to all of us in the face, which is not enough evidence. That is why we now demand that after all we have seen, the Attorney General come to this room again and still sign the suspicion of the national MP Jurchenk. Now we urge everyone in this room who wants to show their unity in the fight against corruption to come up here and stand up. We have to show that we're not a minority who's silent, and most people who demand the truth, which requires the Attorney General to come and tell us why the video that all Ukrainians have seen is not enough. Please, colleagues who are against corruption, approach and stand up for Jurchenko’s responsibility. We see who's standing here right now. I thank colleagues from other factions who support and support. Thank you very much. Because this shows that you are against corruption, that you will not remain silent. That this is not a single faction of the Voice that demands it, but the Ukrainian Parliament, which requires the Attorney General and the Ukrainian Parliament to come here, which requires the signing of a suspicion after what we've all seen on television. And, Mr. Jurchenko, I know you're going to watch this, I don't see you now, you're hiding somewhere, you're probably not going to work. Set a mandate! Because right now you're embarrassing all of us who came to power today came here to Parliament to change the country and fight corruption. Please establish a mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u107	A replica from David of Arahama, please. Because the faction was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u108	Good afternoon, colleagues! I thank the Voice faction. But I want to encourage everyone, now a really sensitive question. We will certainly not cover anyone, and we believe that if a national MP is guilty, no matter what party he represents or what faction he represents, the question must be investigated. Do we have to sign? We can sign a call with you to the Attorney General that we will never cover anyone. But you don't have to go into this political situation right now, it's basically a criminal situation that needs to be investigated independently. Thank you. It is the organs of justice that must work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement on the purchase of natural gas (Registration No. 3176). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your point is to propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of natural gas (No.3176), which, to say, brought together almost all the factions in this room at the stage of registration, and then at the Committee on Economic Development received support and looked forward to a final decision here in the Chamber. Ukraine needs an effective, transparent and efficient gas market. This requires that the consumer and all participants have the opportunity to buy gas on the markets as it works around the world. Only market trade today can guarantee the benefits of dynamic trade with this natural resource. But we have to say that today market operators, namely the gas transport system of gas shelters and gas distribution networks, are limited in their activities by some of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act and are unable to buy natural gas for balancing and manufacturing and technical losses outside the ProZorro system. This platform is certainly a very positive reform in Ukraine. But in the gas market, it's not possible for daily price upgrades, because ProZorro tenders go more time than one day. As drafters of the bill, we propose to allow the entities defined by the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act to purchase natural gas in the commodity market to perform their functions in the market for the short term. The first is to balance the market; the second is to address the negative day-to-day imbalance and the third is for its own manufacturing and technical needs. This is the approach set in the Third Energy Package. The European Union’s network code of balance provides that short - term standardized products are traded in principle: during the period or for the next 7 days per week. It is noteworthy that a similar mechanism is already envisaged for electricity market entities. So you and I still have to unify the procurement legislation and the natural gas market. To put it, a letter of support from the Energy Society Secretariat was sent to the Head of the Supreme Council yesterday. So, colleagues, I call on all national MPs to support Bill 3176 by their voice once again to support our country towards integration with the European natural gas market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u111	The word is given to the head of the committee of the Committee on Economic Development, Aleksija Vasilovich. Please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 26 June 2020, in video conference mode, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement on the Purchase of Natural Gas (Registration No. 3176), completed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Železniak, Županin and others. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 23 June 2020 that it made observations on the bill. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, decided to introduce a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement on the purchase of natural gas (registration No. 3176), completed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to recommend that the results of the first reading be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a technical law. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Ustinova Alexandre Yuriovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u114	Please give the railroad a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u115	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. It's a little technical bill, we'll support it, of course. This is what requires, including the Agreement with the European Union, this is the right exception and this is, there, a combination of two reforms – both ProZorro and the gas market. So I think that this bill can be adopted, if in general, our faction supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u117	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers. Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. As you know, the Fatherland faction, our leader Timoshenko, we've been doing everything we can lately to make the gas sphere activity transparent, primarily NAC Naftogazu. Look at the crazy numbers. In the last six years NAC Naftogaz has received $13.5 billion in gas transit from PAO Gazprom, another 4 billion have been paid by consumers, 17.5 billion has received NAC Naftogaz, and one percent, one, I'm not wrong. Yesterday, there was an explosion in the cabanas, and that's the reason why the money for the modernization, for the reconstruction of the GTS, was not enough. That's why the Fatherland faction will do anything. First. We support this bill because it really regulates the process of buying gas for the technical needs of a GTS operator. We're not going to be able to speculate on that gas. We realize that in the gas market lately, the price on the stock market is lower than the price that Naftogaz NAK sold to his daughter, the daughter's structure, the gas, by driving him into debt. And the last. The GTS operator controls our transport system with you, that's our property with you, the property of the Ukrainian people. The Fatherland faction will certainly not allow anyone to steal this GTS, the Fatherland faction right along with you, colleagues, to do everything we can to prevent the reckless use of tariff money. Several times she tried to control the fare money, and the operator of Ukratransgaz wouldn't even let in the controlling authorities. It's unacceptable. On the first reading we will support, but on the second reading it will be a very hard, principled position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u119	Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u120	Your Honor, my colleagues, you know, I'm at the committee meeting and the entire faction of the political party "European Solidarity" supports the idea and the bill itself, and will vote in favour. Moreover, even GNEU did not have significant observations. But this is a GNEU comment that I think it's appropriate to say that information needs to be given about the state of functioning of trading platforms in Ukraine, the level of competition in the gas market. First of all, it would provide a transparent function and price, price formation and real price that is today. At the same time, I would like to point out that the position of the Committee on European Integration is that we need to comply consistently with the requirements that we have signed and about which we constantly conduct and test the clocks between us and the European Union. The Eurocommission of the bill gave the committee’s head first private agreement today. And I think that's the point that we have to take into account the future when we adopt the law. If there is support for the European Commission, we do not see the support of the government today, and the government should certainly recommend and approve the bill because it is important for the preparation of the bill as a whole and for the voting. What I'm saying is that, today, the conclusion that we have received from our partners and from the Committee on European Integration tells us that we will support the bill and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u121	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u122	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, the parliamentary political party for the future. With regard to this bill, the political party and the parliamentary group "For the Future" will abstain from voting for it, at least in the first reading. Because we want to point out that there are significant corruption risks that are contained in the exemption from the Public Procurement Act of all natural gas market entities. That is not only the gas transport system operator, the gas distribution system operator, the gas shelter operator, but also the LNG plant operator, customers, wholesalers, buyers, suppliers, consumers. This will lead to significant abuses. Regarding all the other points, I'd like to point out that someone over a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half later offered a flash mob to recalculate and called on Kabmin to recalculate the tariffs for community services for the population. And Parliament needs to think about the population, not just the gas system operators. And I'd like to note about the Voice faction and their significant calls against corruption. I don't want to stand next to you in this rostrum because Vakarczuk, like Jurchenko, has to answer to the law and lay down his mandate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, now from the "Trust" Group. And I'm going to ask the MPs to join the House of Parliament, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u124	Sergey the Mighty, the Political Force "Our Land", the Deputy Group "Trust", Luganshina. We have repeatedly called on this government, and all previous governments, to immediately stop this gas mess and not give in to IMF pressure, to conduct a general audit of the gas market, not to allow the billions of debts of oligarchs to be transferred to citizens, to prevent artificial gains in utilities, to lower the price of gas, to target the needs of people and the fuel of Ukrainian production. The price of gas for humans can not only be maintained, but even reduced. This requires increasing the production of Ukrainian gas and directing it to the needs of the people and the HKG, not the oligarchs. The "Trust" MP will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u125	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Unfortunately, once this law is passed, if it's adopted, the price of gas will rise, and it'll be twice as high as today's price of spot. How is that possible? We have repeatedly called for gas not to smell, it to be as cheap as possible, and then direct contracts have to work. And the fact that we have pads and pads today, and the gas I know for sure, believe me, is what the Ukrainians are going to pay for today. And it's shameful, and it's unacceptable. I'm asking a rhetorical and classical question, essentially Ukrainian: what about Ukrainian gas, which is not more expensive than $80. Why do we not supply people with gas that seems to belong to them? After all, they belong to the people of Ukraine, and the gas is not a nadar? It's not air, believe me. And people have the right to have it, real and Ukrainian gas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. One more question. The committee made a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. In general, are we ready to vote? Who doesn't? "For the future," "For the Fatherland." I know. OJ L 347, The committee considers the proposal to be sufficient. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement on the purchase of natural gas (Registration No. 3176). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:55:26]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to reduce the half - time period of preparation for the second reading and submission of rights and proposals for second reading according to part two of article 116. Please support and vote. [[12:56:00]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I had a brief meeting during my break with the representatives of Save FOP. They also addressed me and the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a request to the committee and to give the commission to hold a meeting in the near future and to consider a number of issues related to the resolution of the situation that has taken place today. Today will be the official commission of the Head of the Supreme Council to the Committee on Tax, Customs and Financial Policy to consider these issues as soon as possible. I hope that everyone will be able to find the right construct to get out of the difficult situation that is today. A statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Here comes Nina Petrovn Jujanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u128	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished entrepreneurs, you will see how many of us, members of the Supreme Council, have joined forces to bring to some of the "national servants" that we absolutely need, immediately this week, perhaps we should consider some of the bills that will answer their questions. It's not political action. This is the support of those who care for their families, who can make money for themselves, for their families, who maintain local budgets. You know, 50 percent of the revenue in local budgets is the income that natural persons pay -- entrepreneurs on a simplified tax system. You're killing their activities. You killed her, and since January 1st, 21st, these people won't be able to work for their families. You can't do that about them, especially at a time when income problems are common. You take this opportunity from people. It is a shame that the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs does not hold a committee meeting for the first time this week because there are no issues to be considered. A large number of drafts that have been proposed by various national deputies from different factions, which remove problems for the FOPs, have not been considered on the committee. And there's no answer to that. They hid their heads in the sand. Why are you doing this? The last bill, which was adopted, was 2524 and a forged text to be signed, in relation to this submitted statements, three statements. I hope that the Attorney General will violate the criminal conduct of those who took away the last hope from entrepreneurs and in yet another way led them to the mandatory use of cashiers. That's exactly what the book on income accounting is about. So I suggest you all turn to that large number of your colleagues and take our opinion into account, too, no matter what. We're now about to give people the opportunity to voluntarily use cashiers, cashiers to make decisions, not to solve their fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u129	All factions stand here, and I thank the members of the majority. Colleagues, deputies are to serve Ukrainian citizens. If they do not serve Ukrainian citizens, why such deputies? Let's do everything for them! They're begging us on the street. We stand here today and defend their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Next bill 3717, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to regulate higher education for foreign citizens and stateless persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you first to support a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Let's take your seats and vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Dear colleagues, are you ready to support the reduced procedure? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:01:22]] For-200 Decision taken. I invite the drafter of the bill, the national MP of Ukraine, Mezentsev Maria Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your attention, please. We certainly support the activities of the FOPs, but we are currently considering an equally important bill for national security, for the international image of Ukraine and for investment in our country. We're talking about article 48 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which, if you and I support this today, will allow foreign students (advertising, non-Ukrainen and non-citizens) to learn exclusively in individual groups not only in English and Ukrainian but also in other world languages, this is also the language of the Council of Europe. We are now saying that the law provides for an exclusive choice for such groups. We're talking about more than one billion investments in the Ukrainian economy. We're talking about this bill being supported by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. And we're also talking about Ukraine starting to use this tool as an instrument of international diplomatic movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u133	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask you to keep order in the walls of Parliament. You'll be given the opportunity to report your position. It's not a position to cry out for the position of others. You're going to have a given time, you're going to go out and report your position. Do you have a deal, colleagues? So with respect to the reporter, I'm going to ask you to continue this question. Please, Mrs. Maria, continue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u134	Thank you very much, sir. I want to point out that pretty common fairy tales in social networking, that the number of students who come from SND countries is low. 2019 showed that this is more than 25 percent of foreign students. We were approached by a college of vice-rectors of Ukraine, a community of vice-presidents of the higher educational institutions of our state, who asked for the support of this bill. Friends, let's be patriots and tell the world what Ukraine is, what the European state is, and use it for our positive image in the world. Dear colleagues, be patriots, support this bill. I'm asking you very much. It's a historic day. Don't go on any misinformation campaigns in the socrates that gave us the Kremlin. Next time, I won't say that. Please be supportive. We're not just talking about money, we're talking about ours. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I do, with your permission, wish to address everyone in this room. The rightness of its position is here at a certain time established by the Rules of Procedure. And I think it distinguishes democracy from any other form of communication and society. That's why I'm asking. I'm sorry, you think that's the position, you go out and prove it. So I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation to Babak Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u136	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we are considering a very simple bill that addresses one particular problem of the competitiveness of higher education in the international education market. What do the drafters want to do? The authors of the bill give universities, Ukrainian higher education, a piece of the international market for educational services that we have lost indefinitely in recent years. [[B in m in s a l in]] To those who are yelling at the back, I'll explain one thing: you've already led a higher education in the last five years before 18,000 Ukrainians are studying in an aggressor country. That doesn't bother you, does it? Let me explain. Dear colleagues, in fact, it's just about economic patriotism. We're talking about 80,000 foreign students in Ukraine now. These 80,000 students contribute 4 billion dollars to university budgets and leave about 12 to 16 dollars in local communities. The authors want to increase this amount so that universities can earn more and local communities can also earn more. The committee reviewed the draft law and recommended that it be adopted as a basis. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u137	Please sign up for: Two for, two for. Don't break the rostrum. Batenko Taras Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u138	Please give the floor to the national MP Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u139	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u140	Dear Ukrainians, when someone has the opportunity to go abroad (for the remainder of the money left after the end of the period of poverty promised to us by the "ministers") and he chooses Germany, there he is obliged to know German, if he chooses France, there he is obliged to know French, if he goes to Britain, he is obliged to know English, if he goes to Spain, he is obliged to know and learn this language. And it's only in the Banana Republics that universities and local budgets are offering to earn a plus-minus pair of thousands of dollars, put Ukrainian national language and national interests down there deep in the drawer. Society, don't worry about their defamation. Part three of the 48 articles of the current Higher Education Act provides the right to determine that, if all students speak English, they are entitled to individual instruction in this language. They don't need the law, they need the law not for English, they need the law for the language of the aggressor country, which is also the country that speaks the language of the Council of Europe. So, you guys, don't go to the big talk, don't go on the offer to add a couple of bucks to the rector's wages there. We vote against it. The MP Party for the Future calls on everyone to be patriots of Ukraine and not to turn the state into Burkina Faso!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u141	Julia Grishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you lower your degree a little now, stop doing political manipulations. I know that I already have the experience of cooperating with all factions, and I know that education brings us together. All they've just said about the restrictions in the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on English is all false. What Is the Law of Ukraine 3717? First. That's hundreds of millions of dollars in the state budget of Ukraine and education funds. These are additional jobs for Ukrainian science and teaching staff. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's an improvement in the quality of education for foreign students. Now for the truth. Now, in the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, there is a limit to the language of learning. Yes, it is now assumed that foreigners have the right to learn either in Ukrainian or in English, there are no such restrictions in other parts of the world. Our bill proposes to remove all restrictions and allow foreigners to learn any language of the European Union. It is free to choose the language of instruction for foreigners who are taught in separate groups and for those who are not citizens. In doing so, it remains the responsibility of foreign citizens to learn Ukrainian, and the number of hours that have been left remains. You don't have to manipulate it! The presence of this restriction today leads to a significant reduction in the number of students and the outflow of those wishing to receive higher education to neighbouring countries. Today, all neighbouring countries receive our foreign students, and we lose our potential financially, patriotic and so on. Increasing foreign students for us is economic patriotism. So I'm asking you to put aside all political manipulations and allow foreign students in our country to receive quality higher education without any language restrictions, because we are a free European country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u143	Thank you, Julia Mikolayevna. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u144	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Such passions are in vain in this room, because it's not about education, it's not about legal issues -- it's about ruse and deception, it's about the national dignity of Ukrainians. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I want to say today that, honourable Ukrainian national MPs, this question is not in the legal area, because enough of the main scientific expertise, this question is not in the educational plane, because the people who want to come and learn in Ukraine today can do it, and no one from Central Asia or the Caucasus is going to study in Ukraine, the country of the aggressor. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say something else. I want to address your mind and your hearts. Not long ago, when we stood still for a moment of silence, we honored the memory of Vasil Stus, who died in the Persian concentration camps of the gulag system for speaking Ukrainian for thinking Ukrainian for defending Ukrainian. And the people who are going to vote for this bill today, you're voting with Vasil Stus' killers, you're voting with those people who have spent a long time trying to destroy Ukraine as a state, you're voting with those people who have come with guns to kill Ukrainians. Because it's not about education, it's not about jurisprudence, it's about the aggression they want to kill Ukraine. Our job is not to let this happen!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u145	Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u146	Lukashev Alexander. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to look to the supporters of European values and remind them that the attitude towards a woman who is the author of the bill and other female speakers is not in European tradition. Secondly, about what I would like to remind you that Hitler's language, the German language, is not prohibited as a language of instruction in Ukraine. I imagine. Next, I represent the great university city of Kharkiv, and today, from your position under Bill 2299, we have received what we have not received from students from the countries of SND, the Central Asian republics. And we have traditions when we've studied for several generations at Kharkiv universities. And by the way, you're talking about national interests, so I wanted to say that the possibility of teaching foreigners and people without citizenship in a foreign language is a guarantee of national educational economic interests, it's a question of ensuring the competitiveness of Ukraine in European education. What do you want? To see our people, you see, they're already learning, Ukrainians, at third-class universities in Europe, you're covering the way to our heights. The autonomy of universities provides for a solution to this issue at a higher level. And by the way, this bill provides for the provision and responsibility of universities to study the national language. Let's think about Ukraine, let's think about Ukraine as a great educational state, let's think about university and we'll be. And that's enough lullaby! You're wild people!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u147	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u148	The global world or "Russian peace," that's what the bill says. This is Jude, born in Detroit. He speaks Ukrainian better than many people in this room. Give me a reason why foreigners should now learn languages other than English, English, and European Union languages. This is statistics. Some 600,000 students come to Ukraine, 15,000 of them from India, 7 from Morocco. None of these people, or Turkmenistan, have Russian native languages. When we talked about how much Ukraine gets out of this, there is no question, there is no answer, there is no economic benefit. That's why we choose today whether a global world in which we understand English or a "Russian peace" that awaits us with tanks and killers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u149	All those who wish to speak? No, it's not. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich is motivated. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on Krulka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u150	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, the honourable national deputies, on October 25, local elections, raised the issue of language? Because there's nothing more to talk about in the hall? And I want to say that this bill isn't about foreign students, it's not about protecting them, it's not even about foreign languages. Because when someone is told in this room that someone needs to be protected so that they can learn in a foreign language or do something else, it means protecting the Russian language. Here's what we're talking about. It's not about foreign students. We saw a regional language charter and a national minority vote in this room. It was about protecting the Russian language -- nothing more about it. We've seen about how in this session room we've tried to stretch under different kinds of anything for the Kremlin's sake. So this bill is not about students who want to study in Ukraine. And I want to say that this is an ideological question, this is an ideological question. And if we're gonna sell for a lot of rotten sausage.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. Please don't shout. Please don't shout. I'm not going to comment now, dear colleagues. Mikola Mikolaiovich Tishchenko, you're feeling very well. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to comment on the law right now, but you're being watched in all the cities and the behavior of the Supreme Council is wrong. When you shout, you are not heard by either of you or by others, and your positions are not heard. And don't interrupt, I'm not doing this to you, and I'm not advising you. [[Applause]] Until they hear each other with your pluses and minuses in position, you and the people won't hear you. That's what I'm telling everybody right now. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act of Ukraine to regulate higher education activities for foreign citizens and stateless persons (registration No. 3717). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:31]] For 210 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the motion to refer you to the preparatory committee for the first time again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. I'll tell you what, don't yell. Show the factions, please. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act on the regulation of higher education for foreign citizens and stateless persons (Registration No. 3717). Please support and vote. [[13:21:34]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next question of the draft agenda is the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine on the establishment of alternative jurisdiction over cases that are held in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (registration No. 3048). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:22:26]] For 221 Decision taken. Gorbenko Ruslan Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u152	As you all know, the Ukrainian law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine establishes a special legal regime for the observance and protection of human rights and freedoms and a citizen in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Article 12 of the Act provides that the judicial proceedings of the defendants located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to the courts are provided by the courts of Kiev in the relevant jurisdiction and institution. Such a restriction in the election of a court for many Ukrainian citizens living in temporarily occupied territories creates serious difficulties and inconveniences. In particular, transportation costs are increasing as a result of the need to travel a considerable distance from Crimea to Kiev. In addition, one such trip takes a considerable amount of time. It will not be unnecessary to note that court proceedings are virtually never limited to one session. So it turns out that the CIVF at the administrative border with the temporarily occupied territories is located in the Hersonian region. In addition, the Hersonian region has a large part of the VPO from the occupied area of Crimea. That's what our legislative initiative, whose main idea is to give citizens who live in a temporarily occupied area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, an alternative to the choice of a court for trial. We are invited to allow such individuals to receive judicial protection not only in Kiev but also in the courts of the Hersonian region. I note that the implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine. GNEU makes minor remarks that will be further developed into second reading. Thus, the adoption of this bill requires only the will of the people’s deputies. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u153	The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and Sevastopol, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the national minorities and inter-national relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u154	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 3 June 20th, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interim Occupied Territory of Ukraine on the establishment of alternative jurisdiction over cases that are held in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The bill was decided by the national MPs unanimously to recommend it to the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. I may immediately point out, honourable national deputies, that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion of 01.06. In 20 years, he made some comments and suggestions to the bill, but there were no conclusions in the general recommendations. The comments and suggestions are aimed at a more accurate and convenient use of the proposed law. Members of the committee believe that all of this can be corrected before the second reading. We believe that this bill is relevant, correct and must be voted for. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register: two for, two for, and two for the factions. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Soboled? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u156	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, there are laws that unite the hall, and there are laws that divide the hall. Now we have an example of a law that should unite the hall, because when a person loses property, any apartment, store, land in the occupied territory today, he has the right to defend his property in the Ukrainian courts, because there he will not protect it. We will return these territories only when the invaders come out of there, and when the property is returned to our citizens, who are now being used by the invader. So our faction will support this bill, it's important and overweight. But I can't say about the previous law. I am from Zaporozhye, a Russian - speaking family, in almost a million cities until Ukraine’s independence, there was one Ukrainian school, one per million. Then I graduated from the Pedinstitute, where the English language was taught in Russian. And then I taught in a pedagogical school, the only pedagogical school throughout the south and the east of Ukraine, where the teaching was in the Ukrainian language. It's not a question of the previous language, it's not even a question of elections -- it's a question of historical justice: either the people feel like a people, or the people feel like a bastard that they can wipe their feet on. And, dear fellows, there's no Hitler, there's no Putin, there's a language that creates and shapes the people. It's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u157	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u159	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this bill is not as simple as it seems. I want to explain to those who have not read, I feel that few have read this bill. I am so sorry at all that, unfortunately, the Committee on Legal Policy was not involved in the drafting of this bill because it was six years ago when this principle was established and the mechanism was not involved. became effective, it was our Committee on Legal Policy and Justice that proposed this mechanism. What is it? It's about wanting to start an unprecedented thing, a parallel territorial jurisdiction in a certain category of cases and a certain category of population. I understand the idea, I understand that this problem has to be solved somehow. But that is not the decision to make. We don't have a problem in six years, no complaints about the Kyiv courts. Moreover, all other categories of cases – criminal, economic and administrative – will remain in Kiev. And you want to create a parallel defendant for the Kyiv and Hersonian courts only on civil matters. This will result in these norms being declared unconstitutional. And the second is even worse, you're going to have a variety of court practices that will lead to the actual principle of uncertainty, and I don't know how the higher court will react. Guys, let's postpone this bill. From the point of view of the idea, it may be the right one, and the path is the wrong one. We're going to work together with the Legal Policy Committee, and we're going to find the right mechanism if this kind of perspective really needs to be done. Because as far as I'm concerned, the way out is to look for the one we started in an electronic court. When in an electronic way a person is able to sue at any point in the world and there is no obstacle. And we want to go back to the Soviet atheism that was still in the naphthalene time to confuse the situation and make life difficult for these people. Because if there are two different exclusive court decisions from the same case, it will cause a problem for this person, not solve it. So please, this kind of bill is not in time right now. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u160	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The previous speaker made many remarks to this law. They're similar to our position today. We consider this law to be imperfect, so that it will only make it more difficult to protect the rights of our citizens. So our faction held back. But with regard to the previous law, which unfortunately was not voted in the first reading and on the basis. I want to talk to someone who's talking about Russophobia. [[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Yeah, I want to learn Russian if that's the language I want to use in my education. Today after that. [[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Every citizen and person who comes to Ukraine has the right to learn the language that is acceptable to him. And if you're with your face like that, and I'd say, "Harrey," you're going to Europe, you don't belong there. Today you've shown your true face. So it's not European, it's very similar to another part of your body. And the fact that we disgraced the Supreme Council today with screams and positions is true. Thus, respected friends, looking at us, are unlikely to be full members of the European Union. And we'll only stand on the threshold, begging. In English, by the way, it's not Ukrainian you're asking, it's not Ukrainian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u162	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u163	Sergey the Mighty, the Political Force "Our Land", the Deputy Group "Trust", Luganshina. Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill partially reduces the burden on the general courts of Kiev. However, there is an unacceptable initiative to select not only the defendant’s right to appeal to the local General Court within the Herson area but also the right to choose a particular court within the Herson area. The determination of a particular local court should be made by the Court of Appeal by analogy, as is now the case in the case of such persons by the Kyiv Court of Appeal. The possibility of filing a change of jurisdiction after the opening of the proceedings will have a negative impact on the terms of the proceedings and on the effectiveness of the judicial defence of rights. That's why the Trust MPs on the first reading support their Luhansk colleagues, we're going to vote in favour. But the second reading needs to correct these errors. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u164	Thank you, Sergey Anatoliyovich, that although you answer questions about the bill, you don't just say politics. All those who wish to speak? The watermelon. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u165	Thank you. I'll comment again. Of course, what Mr. Ruslan said, we looked at it on the committee, and we clearly understand that this bill will not solve the general problem. But, dear colleagues, think about it, people live in the area of A.R. Crimea, which is temporarily annexed. They come to them with a lot of problems. And instead of moving to KERW and immediately in the territory of the Hersonian region, they have to go to Kiev. So we think that's not very logical, because territorially, it's much easier for them to solve this issue in the Hersonian area. About what you said about the trial online, yes, it's possible. But, excuse me, we've had the Cold Man for two years running an online session, and that's not happening. So now we have to solve this issue, vote in the first reading, and let's solve these problems in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u166	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interimly Occupied Territories of Ukraine, on the establishment of alternative jurisdiction over cases in which participants live in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (registration No. 3048). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:37:50]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory (Registration No. 3743). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:38:25]] For 226 Decision taken. The country’s national deputy, Skyczko Alexander Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u167	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Gabaric Weight Control (Registration No. 3743), from 25.06.2020, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure. The purpose of the bill is to preserve the roadways of general use from destruction by improving the implementation of habilitative weight control of transport vehicles. So what does the bill provide? Administrative responsibility for offences in the area of road safety identified by photo- and video-fixing means; increased responsibility for the failure of drivers of vehicles carrying out passenger transport, cargo, legal requirements of authorized officials of the central executive authority to ensure the implementation of the State security policy on land transport to halt the vehicle, up to 3,000 non-taxable minimums of Ukrainian citizens; increased responsibility of road transport carriers for exceeding the traffic-related legislation; responsibility for refusing office-weight control; responsibility for breaches in the provision of information to commercial overheads or other legislation. The bill also received positions on its support from the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Security Service of Ukraine on land transport, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill 3743 will contribute to improving road safety, reducing road accidents, saving from the final destruction of road roads, so please support the adoption of Bill No. 3743 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u168	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u169	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I thank the drafters for this necessary initiative. In fact, the problem is huge. I think anyone who's ever been on new roads and a few months later is paying attention to the fact that these roads are broken down, and the problem is very often that overloaded trucks are going, and that's really one of the main problems that's going on. On the Committee on Law Protection, we considered Bill 3743 and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. And, of course, until the second reading, we will be working on it. And I would also like to see other measures taken by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure, to ensure the integrity of roads, not just to increase accountability. This is the main leitmotive that sounded on the committee. But, of course, colleagues, we need to take decisive action to both increase accountability, and the main thing is that there is the possibility of automatic identification of such offences, i.e. there will be more objective factors to attract drivers to responsibility. We know that automatic photofixion of the speed of traffic has been introduced, and this really simplifies the question that there is no subjective factor in the relationship between a driver and a police officer. I think it's also a very necessary and timely step that we have to take in the end. So I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading. For our second reading, we will also work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u171	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, I don't think there's any doubt that this is a very necessary law, especially considering the project that is going on in Ukraine today. All of us, as we travel by car in Ukraine, see that the construction of normal European roads is very active today. And this construction is designed so that you and I can safely travel by car on these routes. At the same time, there are certain economic operators who use heavy - weight cars to achieve a certain situational advantage, and they are overloaded not by 5, 10, 15, 20 percent, but by almost double. I'm aware of cases where the car, which was designed to carry 24 tons of cargo, was loaded to 37-38, to 40 tons. Of course, no normal roads can withstand such stress. It's not just about drawing drivers or owners to administrative responsibility, it's about our shared safety with you, because after this use, these overloaded cars on the roads of general use are caused by waves of damage that are already dangerous to other road users. I think the second reading needs to consider in general the question that if it comes to overcrowding of such cars at 40, 50 and more percent, you can ask the general question of confiscating such vehicles in order to make them impossible to use, and so that all of us can safely use roads for a long time. I call for support. The faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u172	Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u173	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, I recall the moment when, in the last summons, we, introducing this bill, almost all of the composition of the Transport Committee, begged the session room to support and find a source of funding to sustain the road economy. Because even today, if you look at our road and road conditions, of course, because roads are our economic vessels, very badly. So we have foreseen a source of funding, and we have foreseen the possibility of filling up this road fund. Then the "Fatherland" faction gave almost all the votes. And now there's a parallel question. With one hand, we build roads, we get them in good shape, both state-owned and communal, but with another hand, given that there is no proper control of overload and in large-scale transport, we can't keep up and control the situation when a new asphalt is being laid today, and tomorrow, it's going to be overloaded up to 200 kilograms, so imagine, with a load on the axis, and it's making a big track of the newly laid asphalt. So, at the same time, the bill provides for the risks of a corrupt situation when we grant the employees of the Ukrtrans Security the right to stop drivers and impose large-scale administrative fines on drivers. We believe that the driver’s responsibility should be borne by the consignor because the driver cannot be held responsible for what he was loaded, and the owner of the car was obliged to lead from point A to point B. That's why "Paternity" votes in the first reading, and by the second reading, we're correcting these corrupt risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u174	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u176	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, we understand what we have. We've seen all the videos recently when the President of Ukraine went into long-range forums and then found out what we actually have a huge problem with roads, overcrowding. And now all of us, together with the Ukrainian Security Service, which we now have, not Russian agents, but long-range fighters, are doing what they're tracking, how much re-loaded cars. Should such a law be enacted? Yes. But as it is now written, this is another corrupt feed not only for Ukratrans security, but also for the police. If you read the law, it raises fines up to 51,000 dollars, not just if you have an overloaded car, but if you haven't stopped and let's say it's been fixed. I wonder how they're going to fix in the photo and video that the person hasn't stopped? And I'm wondering, how come the police can't stop them now when you've got a huge hair? And how is she supposed to escape? Next. If a person, let's say trust and she sold a car in confidence, you know that all the fines will now come to her. The main problem right now is that we have not only recharged feeds, but a whole system of defeats. And every aspect of the Ukrainian security police stand before knows who needs to be stopped and who doesn't need to be stopped. We don't just have to raise people's fines right now, because that's what the Supreme Council is doing right now. We constantly increase fines, we need to make sure that the controlling authorities that do this and the law enforcement agencies do their job instead of letting those who are on the green list and those who are not on the green list get fined and fined. That is why we will abstain from this bill in our first reading. And please correct these corrupt risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u178	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, when the MPs who were working at the time, including the MEPs of European Solidarity, voted in favour of the creation of a road fund. In 2020, this fund uses a percentage of the cost of road construction. And that's very important. But unfortunately, it has happened that we have seen in the last 10 months that services that. or the authorities that should be concerned about road safety are unfortunately very often not fully used. The latest scandal with the capture of security officials in transport, bribes, tells us that it is necessary to get rid of the most subjective factor. And that's why we welcome this bill. "European Solidarity" will vote for him in the first reading. We see that there are standards that match our values, namely, to take away the workers or the police or the State Security Service from transport as much communication as possible with those who commit such crimes. We will support it, but we hope that by the second reading, many of the points that need attention will be taken into account. Once again, I urge our colleagues to vote in favour. "European Solidarity" in the first reading supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u180	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Are they still willing to speak? Rudik. Who else? Suffritch, with motives, Rudik, for reasons, then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Nestor Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u181	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I hope that this law should, in principle, unite our Supreme Council because we all have the pain of overburdening our roads with trucks. But somehow, as head of Ukratrans security, auctions are regional, especially in southern Ukraine. Because they drive grain there and they kill roads. The increase in fines, unfortunately, will not solve the issue. And you know how many moving centers now that can control that? 30. And this is done selectively. Unfortunately, there is a very large component corrupt in this law. And it can cause swelling, well-known. So next year, when about $5 billion is used to build new roads, these complexes are already in place, not moving, depending on whether they are competitors or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u182	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u183	Dear Ukrainians! In 2016, the Supreme Council adopted the historic bill on the State Road Fund, which entered into force in the 18th year. The Internet says, correct me, fellow servants, maybe it's not true that in 2018, 3,000 miles of new roads were built, 19 is 2,000 400, and in this, 20, there are currently 1,000 800. But I'm sure this building boom will continue. But it's a senseless cost of budgeting if we don't make a fixation. But not photo, film and audio, maybe someone thinks that, but in automatic mode. Because it's a classic corruption component. We must correct this until the second reading. And the next. Stop drawing on the responsibility of the drivers. A legal person should be called to account, a car that is driven by a driver or a driver. Only then will we make the order. Our parliamentary group, Party for the Future, will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u184	Thank you. No, we don't add time. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory (Registration No. 3743). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:55:06]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes left, there is no point in asking the next question. Wait, don't break up, one request is Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u185	One second. The noble colleagues, indeed, we don't have time to get into the big question, but we have 4067, this is about holding the 18th of November parliamentary hearings on the theme "On the Way to Just Justice." If you don't mind. Supported unanimously by all legal committees. If you don't mind, let's put and vote to prepare for these parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-16-m0.u186	Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "On the Way to Justice in Ukraine" (Registration No. 4067). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:30.]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
