ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! There's a lot of them today. Dear representatives of the media! Please prepare for registration. I see. I see, yes. But first we register, I open meetings. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:07:38]] There are 343 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions requesting a replacement. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. With a break request. And here's a request to gather the heads of factions in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Break 30 minutes. The Fatherland faction and the Deputies for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! You won't believe it, but at the suggestion of two factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not very interesting. OPCW and Voice is a 30-minute break, more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! At the insistence of two factions: the EU and the Trust, the break takes another 30 minutes, but it's the last recess of the day. That's why I'm asking you in 30 minutes. There were two breaks. That's the third one. This is the third break, the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! You have a list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making. We finished the break. Three breaks that took six political powers in a row. And then let's move on to the issues. Dear colleagues, this is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.01.20 on adoption in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on complete general secondary education. In accordance with the Rules, a reduced procedure is considered and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary session, in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm inviting you. I got into the question, I can't take it anymore. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u5	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u6	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u7	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! We now urge you to think very carefully before voting against this decision. What did you do when you voted for the Full Secondary Education Act? First, you have violated a number of provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine that declare the inadmissibility of language discrimination and guarantee millions of Russian-speaking citizens to use and learn their own language. Most of the deputies in this room speak in Russian. Most of you understand very well that your family is Russian. But surely, for each of us, the only national language is the English language. And if it's a disgrace to someone, it's not a disgrace to us. The only national language is Ukrainian, but the native language for many families in our country is Russian. Therefore, do not deprive our families of the right to decide what language to teach their children. You betrayed more than one million people yesterday, Ukrainian citizens who were denied the right to a pension. You're going to continue to split society up. There is no need to humiliate people; there is no need for further hostility today. Let us address this issue and allow people to communicate, learn them in their own language. We are all different, but equal, and no one has the right to tell us what language to love Ukraine, each of us loves our country. We're going to support this decision and we're going to cancel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u8	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. The report invites the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Vitaliyovich Calchenko. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please turn on Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u9	At its meeting on 5 January, the Regulatory Committee considered draft resolution No. 0901-P, introduced by the Royal and Papiev People's Deputies, which proposes to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of 16 January of this year on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the Law on complete general secondary education. Following part of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the conclusion of the draft decree and decided to recommend to Parliament that it should be decided by a vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Yes, I would like to invite you to the floor of the National MP, Pavelka Rostislav Mikolaiovich. Ah, Heroshenko, please. National Deputy Heratschenko, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that during a long-term break with the Supreme Council Head in principle, we have agreed that each faction will be given a minute to exchange public thoughts about what is currently going on in the session room. And we demand that we give you a word about this break. As for the ruling that we are currently discussing. You know, our political team is proud of the reforms we've made in education. It is very important that all Ukrainian citizens have equal access to state language learning, so that they are competitively able, and it is desirable that Ukrainian national MPs know the national language well, and that they should learn it from school and from university. We're very proud of what's been done for inclusive education, and today these kids, who unfortunately have been locked up at home for years, have the right to work with other kids in high school classes. These reforms need to be continued. And in fact, very much has been done by Ms. Marina Poroshenko to introduce inclusive education. We think that these reforms should be continued, and we urge the government today to really give up trying to close so-called special needs treatment schools, for example, for the treatment of tuberculosis, when education and the treatment process are combined. And as for the language of children to learn, I want to say, Ukraine is a multinational country, and of course every child has the right to learn Crimean Tatar, Hungarian, and all these positions are fixed, including in education laws. We are against this decision, and we believe that today we have to support the development of the language of the state in schools, gardens, universities.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u12	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the German National MP Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u13	The word Papieuvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u14	Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u15	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the political platform "For Life" is now presenting to you a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding adoption, I can say, without exaggeration, the anti-constitutional law of Ukraine "On Total General Secondary Education". What Natalya Juryivna said should be added to a series of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine that violate this law and that effectively discriminate against Ukrainians according to the language in which they communicate in the family. This law prohibits Ukrainians in general and Ukrainian children from learning their own language, although the Constitution guarantees this right. Moreover, discrimination depends on what language the Ukrainians speak. For example, I represent Bukovina, where there are relatively Ukrainian - speaking Romanian - speaking Ukrainians. That is, their constitutional right you violated today to teach your children Romanian. What is more, the Zakartat region, where Hungarian, other languages of national minorities, and more, you have made discrimination within the language because you have not made equality between children who speak Romanian, Hungarian, and those who speak Russian. This is actually a law prohibiting Russian language and do not deceive people with a different name. In addition, we have made an absolutely legal decision because article 117 of the Rules has been violated, which provides for documents to be submitted to the Ukrainian people’s deputies 10 days before the hearing. So I'm asking you very much, this is a historic moment. These people inside, and you promised that you would restore the right to Russian, vote for that determination, and support our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite National Vice-President Larissa Mikolayevna. A member of Parliament for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, 15th constituency. You know, I support the Secondary Education Act, it's actually not bad and it's right. 327 deputies voted in favour of him, but I don't support the position of the OPCW, but there's one paragraph in the Final Position, which is actually destroying sanatorium boarding schools. These are 67 sanatorium boarding schools all over Ukraine, which, thanks to this amendment, will be closed from the new year, they will have to be transferred to the summer school. This means that only children in the ninth grade will be able to learn there. Believe me, these boarding schools actually treat children, it's a scoliosis, it's a support system, it's a cardiac system, it's children who have digestive problems. What are we doing? In fact, we decide the fate of 20,000 children who can't be treated at all. I'm asking you very much and I've also come to the President, the representatives of these boarding schools have come and they've asked for this bill to work out, or at least in the future to support a bill that will pass this bill for parentheses. Because, you know, I actually have 200 kids in the Murovano School district. The huge castle where they live, the cost spent by the State Regional Development Fund, the pool, the sports system, the sports infrastructure, the medical equipment will just be thrown out, there's a lot of money invested. The child costs, as it were, only 18,000 dollars to teach her. And what are we doing? We simply destroy the health of our children. I ask that you pay attention to these final positions that appeared on the last day before the vote. At times, these worries prevent us from adopting laws that are normal. I'm going to the President and I'm going to the MPs to fix this huge, I think it's a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u18	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the Political Party "Golos". Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u19	May I have a word with Natalia Pippa?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u20	Please, Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u21	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! You know the Voice faction didn't support this law, because there's a lot that we'd like to change. But that's definitely not a language question. I love Ukraine. And I love Ukrainian. And I'm sure that's typical of most Ukrainians. This law is more protective of those who truly love this country, enabling them to learn their own language. And we're showing that the school with the Nazi languages that were before this, this law gives more rights to the Ukrainian language, the results of learning are worse. And that's what we're going to be working on so that in the country of Ukraine Ukrainian language will flourish even more and that the results of our graduates will be the best in the whole world. Therefore, we will not support the decision to repeal this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u22	Thank you. The discussion is over. There's one more minute to wish, isn't there? Please, National Deputy Shahov. One minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u23	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues! Well, for me, as an Eastman, there was no problem at all learning Ukrainian language and speaking it in Parliament today. If our children learn Ukrainian in schools, that is no problem. Because I have five children and they all communicate in four languages. When language enters into a controversy here in Parliament today, then it shows that no economy is developing, no enterprise is developing today. Today, Ukraine is being bullied and the west and east are being pushed through language reflexes. Larissa Bilozer said that it is important to note that schools are being destroyed today, that they are closing in villages, that they are closing in areas, and that the boarding houses are closing down. Correct the question that is, a mark in this law. We're also asking President Zelensky to pay attention and help with this. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion was concluded. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who else wants it? Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u25	They mentioned the national deputy, Bilozore. Please give her a word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u26	Please have the right to reply, Mrs. Bilozer. Please insert the card. It says here your microphone is not on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u27	I want to emphasize once again: it's a good and good law, but it cancels boarding schools. What did the children blame before us as deputies? There's just one paragraph in Ending Positions that needs to be changed because today we have to release the paramedics, they're going abroad to make better money. Then the unique educational facilities are destroyed. Today, sanatoriums are the only kind of facility that can be taught and rehabilitated. The inclusion here won't help, because there are no defectologists in the areas. And last week, the parents from dozens of schools under the President's Office were. I'm still asking you to finalize this bill and promise, and send it for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.01.2020 on adoption in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine of the draft Law on complete general secondary education (registration number 0901-P). Please identify and vote. Who can vote. [[11:51:08]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next decision is made. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Here's what's going to happen. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical differences in tax legislation (project registration number 1210-P). Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Pottery Alexiyovich. Please give Alexia Alexiyovich a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u29	Good afternoon! Pottery, European Solidarity, north of Clothing. Dear friends, we, you know, I was going to say by speaking out of the high hall of the Supreme Council, but looking at what's going on around us, you can say that by speaking out of the rostrum of some of the supreme chaos of Ukraine that this chaos brings on: the economy, politics and life. And here we are looking at a law that is extremely important. It's about the economy. I want to remind you that Zelensky said that an avalanche of investments will soon cover us all. In fact, so far the green avalanche has covered the manufacturing, it's just going to go to a chasm; it's covering the budget, we've got a budget hole. Why? Because laws such as Law 1210 are adopted, they are amendments to the Tax Code, which will allow taxpayers to storm the business even more. The small ones were fines -- they're going to be big, there's not enough time to check -- now there's going to be a lot of time to get the business started by the end. Obviously, with those, you know, it's called "turbage," it's a business turbulence, it opens up with the adoption of Law 1210. This law is adopted, of course, in violation of the Rules. I just want to tell you one thing: Under the Ukrainian Rules, all documents for second reading should be submitted 10 days before consideration. We were looking at this law on January 16, which is, by the way, very symbolic. We remember what laws are passed on January 16. And we were given January 15, 1,100 pages, 269,000 words to read in one night! Dear friends, such laws are passed! The consequences will be disastrous. I'm asking you to support my determination to remove this turbulence from business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexeiovich. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u31	The Honourable Presidium, honourable National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed this draft decree (registration 1210-P), submitted by the People's Deputies of Honcharenko, Jujanina and Fedina, which is proposed to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of 16 January of this year on the adoption of a second reading and the whole Act amending the Tax Code (registration 1210). Following part of article 48 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the conclusion of the draft decision and decided to recommend to Parliament that it should be decided by a vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Who wants to. Please welcome National Deputy Jan Vadimovna Zinkevovich of the Political Party's "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u33	I beg your pardon, Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u34	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I understand that no one will be able to listen very carefully right now, but I urge you once again: today we have a chance to support the decision and allow this bill to be returned to the hall to be distributed into several laws and voted an anti-offshore bloc separately and to think again about what we are doing with the administration and allocation of additional fiscal services rights. You're all back from the region today, and you know that now, more than ever, there is no fiscal system, it's not reformed. And I asked the scientists again today, and I've had such a profound and legal study of the standards that you've put into the Tax Code, they're unacceptable. Experts who have the greatest respect in scientific circles say that the definitions that we have made in the Tax Code are generally anti-constitutional. Do you understand that or not? There's only one thing I want to point out, and I want you to hear it. According to the project, "action is considered to be done if the taxpayer created conditions." So when you qualify for a violation, you don't take into account the component of social and dangerous consequences, which is actually tax evasion. The result is that throughout the chain, in all the counterparties who seem to have created the conditions themselves by not doing anything, and the end of the tax payer has failed to pay the taxes, now everyone in the chain will be responsible for the legislation as those that have created the conditions for non-payment of taxes. In general, it seems to me that those who have worked in business realize that times are coming even worse than those of Azar, such rights as must be exercised by tax authorities. So wait until after the adoption of these laws, business is just groaning. Now we're going to put a dot and we're going to bring it to everyone over these months.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u36	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Larynn Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction. Aah! Excuse me. Coltunovich, right? Because there was Sufrich and. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our faction will not support this project. More specifically, it will support the draft regulation and does not support the bill or the law already passed. Why? Because we were all looking forward to a complex tax reform. We all expected, from the experience of the United States and other countries, that when the new authorities come, taxes are reduced, the internal consumer market is stimulated, the volume of industrial production and consumption of goods and services is increased exclusively in the internal market. But we didn't see it. Instead, we have seen a rise in individual bets and congregations that are not even compatible with economic laws but with common sense. That's the first one. The second moment is very important. We find that there are new conditions in the country for the retirement of our citizens. What are we talking about? Yesterday during the discussion of the pension law, your colleague pointed out that we only have to pay a pension to a citizen who has the right political views. So, I'm proposing to the tax committee, which means that then it's necessary to change tax legislation so that only those who have the right or the same political views of today's government can pay taxes. Then it will be just. And you don't have to take people off all taxes. And if you want to go any further, pay these tariffs yourself, and give back to the people who were at Azar 7.25, and not now, 10 times as much. So I insist that today's authorities have to completely change the tax rate and fiscal policy in the country. We need to pay attention, first of all, to stimulating economic activity within the country, to stimulating the process of modernization and innovation, to the introduction of high technology, to the creation of free economic zones. Then we will move as advanced economies and countries move, and Ukrainian citizens will live with dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u38	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I continue for 15 minutes, but until the end of this question. I give the floor to the national MP Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u40	Please, the word Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u41	Galina Vasilchenko, 118 constituency. Colleagues, pay attention, please. I would like to remind you that this very decree concerns Bill 1210, in which you and I, with 340 votes, supported the increase in the ceilings for the FOPs. And now a million eight hundred entrepreneurs have read a lot in the news and are waiting for these limits to be lifted. And by this decree, if we cancel the previous law, it's all going to be overturned. I realize that there's actually a discussion in this room about a completely different issue, namely the market issue of the earth. But please be careful and listen, see what decisions are made to vote. Clearly, we will not support the decision. Because we understand how important it is to raise limits for entrepreneurs. And our belief is that this Law is about deofshorization, delligarchy. We promised this to our constituents, and we will keep our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u42	Thank you. Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we have passed a fine law with you, Law 1210. The law, which for the first time in 28 years of independence of Ukraine introduces responsibility, the real responsibility of the state to business, in the event of a violation of the rights of businessmen of taxpayers. A law that introduces accelerated depreciation. A law that increases the cost of basic funds from 6,000, as they are now to 20,000. A law that allows businesses with turnover of up to 40 million not to take tax differences into account. A law that conforms to the rules on the administration of taxes. What the Council couldn't have done in three years. The law, which eventually introduces AntiBEPS and does not allow a large business to avoid taxation by transferring profits made in Ukraine to abroad. Really, it's not like that. In fact, it causes opposition. But that's what we promised people. And we do. We're making the Ukrainian tax system fair, transparent, tax-paying, and creating conditions for domestic business. Including, we bring tax rates into line, which unfortunately in the past authorities did not correspond to a fair standard. Therefore, I request no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u44	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich! Does anyone else want to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am voting on a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law of Ukraine amending the Tax Code on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical inconsistencies in tax legislation (project registration number 1210-P) Please identify and vote. [[12:03:42]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have continued with you, but until the end of this matter. I'll call it a break until 12:30. I ask the leaders of the political factions to gather in the speaker's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, good afternoon again! At last, all our breaks were over. I'm going to ask the honourable deputies who are blocking the rostrum here and everything else to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It's time for work. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Dear colleagues, we are now continuing our meeting. I'm asking for reasons -- Alexander Kornienko, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u46	There's an offer. As we spent a lot of time negotiating there and talking to faction leaders, we continued the meetings until 8:00 today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u47	Please, Ivchenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u48	Mr. Chairman, "Fatherland" asks you to include an audio broadcast before the bill on the land market begins. There are about 3,000 people on the street right now, and they want to hear what's going to happen in the Supreme Council Hall, which positions the MPs will speak during the discussion of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u49	Thank you. I think that's definitely it. We're working in a volume mode. So I'm going to ask you when you're looking at the land issue to include a proper outdoor audio broadcast on the street for Ukrainian citizens. Please, are there any more suggestions? None. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to continue today's work. What? Batenko will. Let's listen to everyone, then put it in order of arrival. Please, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u50	I want to make this proposal clear, right and constructive. We don't get into night mode. This is the first time. We are going into the procedure for amendments to the land bill. Next, the next day, on Friday, we begin the plenary meeting at 10 a.m. from the hour of the government and conclude it by discussing all those who wish and, accordingly, by parliamentary inquiries. And we're going to continue, and we're going to conclude the discussion of this issue in the next plenary week. That's the compromise we want. Let's forget about any night vote, my friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u51	Taras Ivanovich, all the agreements that have been reached in the speaker’s office, have been followed by virtually all political forces. So I think that's all we're going to take into account and continue this activity. Puts the vote to the vote. It's you, isn't it? Please, for reasons, National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we are now in the process of discussing the key to the Ukrainian law, the Law on the Market of the Earth. And it is obvious that every Ukrainian citizen has the full right to hear, see, see what amendments will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During our discussion of the many hours in the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we emphasized that we demand respect for the Rules, respect for the Constitution and respect for every Ukrainian national deputy. It's absolutely unacceptable -- similar laws to adopt at night, similar laws to adopt in the turbines. So, in fact, for several hours now, not because of the opposition’s fault, but because of the disorder that took place, including in the committee during the consideration of the amendments, we lost out. And this is the absolute fault of a monotonous majority. We want this bill to be considered constructively in every amendment and against the night regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u53	Please, Vakarczuk, who? Excuse me, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have supported representatives of all factions in order to work as national deputies, not as slaves. And I'm glad we agreed. And I hope that this will be a good sign that we will abide by the Rules in this very sensitive issue and continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u55	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Who? Kulinich, please. Oleg Kulinic, please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We support the proposal of other groups and factions. The issue of land circulation is extremely sensitive, it's a political issue. It should be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The owners of Ukrainian land, farmers, agrarian associations must understand what is happening in the session hall. That the bill is being discussed. And this is a very important signal for Ukrainian society. And I think that if all the arrangements are met, and we follow the Rules, by procedure, that's just a positive. We're against the "Trust" MP group, nocturnal sessions. I think we have enough time to work on the Rules. If we went into this procedure two months ago, we would have gone very far with this bill. So only according to the Rules, only by procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u57	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u58	Dear friends, we had a discussion and the whole point was that we asked you to prove one thing: come on, selling Ukrainian land is a crime. They can't hear us. We'll go to law school, we'll go to law school. Come on, you parasites!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u59	Thank you, Vadim Zinovich. You always know how to bring a construct to the discussion. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that it was an offer to continue working today to 20 hours. Please. Since the faction of the OPCW, they have been speaking. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:59:47]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please. Show by factions, please show by factions. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, that's how I understand it's coming from again. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow Members, I urge the deputies to adhere to the MPs ’ ethics, to observe the basic principles of humanity, to take their seats, and to take up their duties. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I appeal to MPs who unfortunately provoke non-parliamentary conduct in this room. Take your seats! Take your seats and take up your responsibilities. Parliament is a place for discussion, prove your right in the debate, not in the fists, apes here. Take your seats! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is a notion of parliamentaryism. Parliamentary matters are resolved by a vote. Please take your seats and do not set provocations on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'll ask the distinguished national deputies to come down and take their seats. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to come down, take your seats. Dear fellow National MPs, I am addressing you, not as members of party centers, clubs, groups and so forth, but as people who have been delegated to represent them in the single legislative body. I'm asking you to take your seats, please, because it's very important for us to have a normal constructive conversation right now. And the conversation can only begin in the discussion. I'll ask all the national MPs to take your seats. There's an offer, please include the Arachamaics.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u60	Colleagues, I suggest, the whole country is watching, we've turned on the broadcast outside, let's start working as a national MP. I'm betting now, please put to the vote the proposal to extend today's working day to 19:30, to vote and start by 100 percent, according to the Rules, to work, to consider each right separately, if anyone insists, and to move on with this process. We have 4,000 rights ahead. You have time to show your political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I beg of you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and we will now vote in favour of another offer by David Georgiyovich Arahamiya to continue today until 7:30 and finally start working. Do you mind? Are you ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Please. Everybody's ready, right? Please support and vote. [[13:08:56]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's see the factions. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zdumkov Dmitr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u62	Good evening! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please respect each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I speak? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen to me, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're a lot. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please give me the floor to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen to me, please, I'll speak, we'll move on. Dear colleagues, democracy is when you respect the rights of others, so is mine. [[Applause]] I don't think there's going to be a lot of people in this room who will say that I'm being disrespectful to them. That's why I'm asking you to listen to me. I understand that politics, it's always been in Ukrainian society, is and will be, just like democracy. But democracy is when your rights end where the rights of another begin. I realize that many of us today are pushing for a fight, blood, and not just in the Supreme Council. If we're talking about what we're doing here, and it's really valuable when all the factions are sitting at the table and negotiating, and they're reaching some kind of consensus. When we agree that we will have a meeting by 8 a.m., because we have spent some time trying to reconcile a common position, it may be necessary to do so. When we agree that no one will block the Presidium and give direction to the Supreme Council under the Rules to follow the Rules, that is what must be done. When we agree that we should follow the law, we are pushed to do what -- everyone hoped that we would break the Rules, that we would go as someone would be comfortable with? No, it's not. We went by the law. The committee went through, prepared the papers, handed them over to the hall, the hall had the opportunity to study them, and now the hall has the right to decide. He has no right to decide between Durumkov, Stefanchuk, Kornienko, Heratschenko, Gerasimov, Dustenko, Rabinovich, Boyko, Stefanchuk or anyone else I have not named, Rachmanin, Batenko. Decisions will be made by the majority. I like it, I like it, I don't like it. You like it or you don't like it. But that is the kind of democracy. If we are talking about parliamentaryism, it is. Someone. No, the earth is the same law that we will adopt or will not adopt. However, the decision will be decided by the entire Supreme Council. Not just the majority, the minority. [[Applause]] If we're talking. If. Dear colleagues, thank you. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, if we're talking to you about everyone hoping that, once again, I repeat, we're breaking the Rules and we'll go like this. A lot of people talked about it. And today he must have been disappointed that it was a perfectly right decision to follow the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand that someone wants a political pianist. I understand I came from this market, too. I know what pyar is. Yet, I think that the pyar should not be more than the state’s position. [[Applause]] Everyone has their own. Everyone's got it. Someone's supporting the market for the earth, someone's against it. Let us, however, show respect for one another. Let's respect the deal. I don't think anyone's gonna say we're violating them. We observe, and to this day almost always we have found a common language and have kept the promises that have been made. That's not how it went today. I understand. It is good that although we do not push people on the street to earn some points at someone’s health. I understand everything perfectly. Let us, however, remain human. Let's do what we promised ourselves, what we promised our colleagues in Parliament, and what we promised people. Everyone had different promises. The decision, I repeat, in a democratic state should be adopted by Parliament, not by one faction, another faction, that MP or that MP, to whom it is convenient today. What's wrong? Did we do something wrong? No, it's not. Once again, my dear colleagues, you may not vote for this is your right. You may not vote, I can't force you to do that and I won't. Each national MP will make his own decisions — to support or oppose. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't interrupt me, please. Don't interrupt me, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I repeat: what democracy is not democracy. [[B in m in s a l in]] I realize that someone would be comfortable if we held a committee in secret, but that didn't happen. Someone would be comfortable if they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u63	I'll make you a deal, and you'll continue, dear colleagues. I'll make a deal, and you'll continue, that's your right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, my dear colleagues, it's not parliamentaryism to take another place, unless it's yours today. [[Applause]] Next, I'll finish. Dear colleagues! I think we should go back to the agenda. For your consideration, the proposed bill, registration number 2178-d. Since your humble servant cannot hold a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, thank you. We're in the middle of something. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, we got into the question, but the factions are asking for motive. We will be able to express ourselves at the beginning of this consideration. Is there no objection? Then I ask the factions to register: what a faction and who wants to speak out of motive. The word is given to the national deputy of Tchaikovsky John Adamovich, the MP for the Future. National deputy Igor the Stick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are moving on to a very important question for someone in order to sell Ukraine, for someone who is very difficult to protect Ukraine. In each faction, in each MP, each group already has its own opinion on this vote, on this issue, and on whether anyone in this Ukraine has the right to actually discuss this issue without a national referendum. I want to say that the Group for the Future will not vote in favour of this bill. I want to say that we will make every effort to vote in favour of amendments in order to improve this bill, if he, God forbid, passes with the hands of other deputies. But in order for me to say before considering this question, and to address all the deputies in this question, I have listened to the full speech of our Parliament Speaker Razumkov, I support him completely, he is a normal, considered, honest man. And I'd like to address everyone as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u66	Yeah, I asked you, give me half a minute, give me half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u67	I'd ask all the deputies in this room, we'll have the whole country looking at us today. Parliament is the people who have been chosen as the best in the districts or by the list in this country. We may have a separate opinion, but we have no right to set up a pusher here. I'm talking to the deputies of different factions: we see here in Parliament 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u68	No, no, look, we agreed that after one minute. All right, let's give it another 30 seconds and we'll each get two minutes, and then we'll move on. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, let's work on this law within the framework of the Rules, as the speaker said, let's stop pushing, because it may end up completely different from what one party or another expects, let's set an example for the people of Ukraine in tolerance and respect for one another. We are building Ukraine's future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u70	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, the faction of the Political Couple "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u72	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u73	I'm out of town. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are indeed entering into a very important and sensitive question, and we are coming into it with a very unpleasant, sick, and almost hostile background. In fact, the issue of the earth in the broad sense of the word is one of the few issues that Ukraine can argue that does not need at such a difficult time. That's why I have a permissive request for everyone -- to be very careful about what you vote for, what you vote for, and what you say, and what you do. Because the way we act today in the hall, our weight, our discipline and validity will depend on a lot of things, first of all, peace in Ukraine. This is a very difficult question and let's go over this with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u74	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. People's Deputy Royal Natalia Juryevna, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u75	Honourable Ukrainian citizens, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is strongly opposed to selling Ukrainian land without an all-Ukrainian referendum. Just a referendum and this is our position. And today, even at night, even though we will be sitting here for months, we will prove to you that Ukraine is not being sold, that Ukrainian land is not being sold, and you have no right to make such a historic decision. You do not have the right to require foreign advisers and sponsors to allow the sale of Ukraine today. Surprisingly, today is a historic moment, and each one of us has the opportunity to set a dot, to make a unanimous decision for all the halls, to go to a referendum and ask people what they think today should continue to rule the Ukrainian land. Today, foreign banks cannot be allowed to sell Ukraine, today foreigners cannot be allowed to buy Ukrainian land, today during war, during hostilities in eastern Ukraine to sell Ukraine. For us and Lugansk and Donetsk, this is Ukraine, and the Ukrainians live there. And we have to give people today the right to have every man in our country get their own pies, and today the land is not spoiled, and you want to sell it now, without giving people their constitutional rights, their constitutional pies. So we ask people first to give pies, then to hold an all-U.S. referendum today, and only then in this room will we consider this issue. As people will decide, that's what we decide, just a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u76	I'll give you 10 more seconds because you took the initiative. Yeah, I'm for Natalia Yuriovna. I think it's a very important initiative. A little bit. Let's do it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! "The opposition platform is for life," we all ask you for a moment of silence now to honor the memory of the great woman of the Ukraine of Valentina Shevchenko, who is now being buried, let all the halls, the head of the Supreme Council, the only woman in Ukraine. She has great memory and respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, welcome to the words of Poturaev Mikita Ruslanović, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, there's finally a moment of history. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering, without exaggeration, the fundamental historical issue for the development of the entire Ukrainian nation decades in advance. Unfortunately, we have today and all together, I hope, and I continue to do the very many difficult things that have been accumulated over the years, and that is, if we bring one fundamental thing, it is a restoration of trust. Restoring trust in our country, our country outside, by people who are watching us and thinking, well, this is such a beautiful land. It's such a rich country, the richest country in Europe. We'd love to work with the Ukrainians, but with the mess they have there with the judicial system, with the law enforcement, with the right to private property, with people acting as though they have private property on the ground, with 7 million people being deprived of it. Well, how can you work? How can you and the Ukrainians get richer and make money?" We need to restore confidence inside the country, because our businessmen, from small to small, to large, are not sure, never sure, even the so-called oligarchs are never sure what their day is tomorrow, and how they're going to work here. So it's not about referendums, about honor, about trust, about respect, about Ukraine's future. Let's start looking and voting for the future of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u80	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust". Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the issue of land circulation is extremely sensitive, I've talked about this a number of times, I'm the third call in Parliament. It's a political issue. Clearly, then, it should be discussed only in full procedure. And Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people have to understand what's going on and what we're talking about. In fact, though, we need to discuss seriously and not just the circulation of land. You have to think about the Ukrainian wealthy farmer, the Ukrainian wealthy farmer. We need to consider developing rural areas. Because all these things are connected. So we can get to the point that we're soon going to have no one working in the village. So all these things, they're sensitive and important. And that's why we insist that we follow the full procedure, we go through the Rules and we discuss every amendment, and we take an active part in this bill, in its discussion. We've been filing the papers with a group, and we're going to insist on them, we're going to stand up for them. Because we understand these issues, most of us used to work in the agrarian sector. So this question, once again, is extremely important. But we need to speak in a complex way, not just for circulation. Think of a strong Ukrainian farmer, a strong Ukrainian farmer. And then we're going to build a really strong European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u82	Thank you. The word is given to Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Our political power has tabled less than 100 amendments to the land market bill, which we expected to be adopted by a professional committee so that the law called the land market is about the land market, not about the embezzlement, the sale and, in fact, the market that they're trying to set up in this room. None of these amendments were adopted just because its authors are Prashenko, Heratchenko, Herasimov, Zabrodsky, because they are representatives of the opposition political power. Among those amendments that have not been adopted, including the ban on the sale of land to members of the Russian Federation's aggressor state. In this bill, which is being tried in the session room right now, there are no safeguards regarding the sale of land near Ukraine’s borders. And don't be surprised when there's a "green man" near the borders. The worst part is that there is no such thing as a safety net regarding the untargeted non - ecological use of the earth. You know, Ukraine is now becoming a province in general in the subject of ecology. Even in the Davo forum where President Zelenski spoke, and where the topic was the key, the topic of ecology and climate change, the President said nothing about it, because it's not important to you. Obviously, when we hear from this rostrum today a requirement of respect for the deputies of the Supreme Council, we want to ask you a question, so you took up all these sections first: and where is your respect when opposition representatives come in here and you yell at them, what was it like yesterday during the performance of our political power? And where is your respect for each other when you take laws in the turbines, for which it is embarrassing to look people in the eye? You know, and today there's really no need to really consider these amendments by 7:30, because at 18: we have to actually say dot and move on, the amendment to the amendment to consider this key law. And we urge you today to think about what you're trying to do. Eight million.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Soboled, didn't you? Soboljev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u85	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to address the Ukrainian citizens, because for us, for the Fatherland Party and the Fatherland faction, we are now discussing not the land market, the land sale of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land, because that is what it sounds like. For someone it's a sale, for someone it's a way to make money, for someone it's a way to resell Ukrainian land. In my opinion, there was a key subversion of ideas. And these three months that the newly elected parliament has spent discussing this issue, we've gone our separate ways, in my opinion. The key question that we need to raise is an effective owner who should be on the ground. Because if a second-reading bill has a broker-bank that has the right to concentrate any land in its own hands, and then to resell it, where is the effective owner? If on the second reading there are rules that allow you to circumvent any restrictions, any prohibitions on selling land first of all to the aggressor country, and you all know very well what an effective owner is here? For our party and faction is a key question and it's not just a matter of following the Rules, for our party and faction is one question: it's not Parliament that approves decisions, the country has to be an independent or vassal or a colony. Only the people have the right to make such decisions. Because after our decision, it's not a decision for 10 years or 20 years, it's a decision forever, it's impossible to play it back. So it is only in the referendum that this issue should be adopted and we stand on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the head of Mr. Mikol Solski's committee. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, in principle, respect and correctness just starts with such basic things when we give everyone the opportunity to express themselves from the rostrum, and then there's blocking the rostrum for the reporter. Look. Mikola Tarasovich, would you be comfortable? The word is given to Mikola Tarasovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u87	We're also comfortable from the place. Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, has submitted to your consideration a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of agricultural land (registration number 2178-10). For the second reading of the bill, 4 thousand and 18 suggestions and amendments have been made by law - enforcement entities, which are included in the comparative table prepared by the committee. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take into account the 9 amendments to the committee that cover the entire text of the bill and reject the rest. In view of the fact that the committee’s amendments cover the entire text of the bill and, logically and structurally, we ask each other to consider it last. In accordance with the decisions of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy of 28.12.2009, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of agricultural land (registration number 2178-10) in the second reading and as a whole as the Ukrainian Law in the drafting of a committee with further technical and legal development of proposals made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much to the factions and groups who made constructive proposals to the bill. These proposals were taken into account in the committee's drafting of the project. It's an amendment from the "People's Servants" to admit foreigners only if this citizen is supported by a referendum. These are proposals made by members of the People's Service and other factions to reduce the concentration limit to 10,000 hectares. In particular, I would like to thank our colleagues from the Violas of Yulia Klimenko, Volodymyr Tzabal, Andri Osadchuku, Inni Sosun, who have taken an active part in substantially improved land reform models and have introduced possible amendments between the first and second readings that have been taken as a basis for the establishment of a rural development fund and the allocation of funds from the sale of state land that will be used exclusively for the development of roads, schools, hospitals and other infrastructures in the village. State lending to farmers to buy land full of prohibitions on acquisition of land by citizens and juries of the aggressor state, as well as restrictions on acquisition by non-residents within the border zone 50 kilometers of the territory of Ukraine under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Amendment number two, National Deputy Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a card. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u90	Yes, turn on the microphone. Please enable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our first draft of this bill, and we address each and every one of you. It's an all-Ukrainian referendum. We demand, we beg you. Now we have with you all the possibilities to stop the sale of Ukraine. Now we can vote with you to hold an all-U.S. referendum. To ask people how they today want to see and with whom they want to see the Ukrainian land. To protect the Ukrainian farmer today. To protect our future. So we can have conditions with you to create food security for Ukraine and lift Ukraine from its knees. Please support the drafting of the U.S. referendum and vote. And we're also insisting that 4 bets be placed on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u92	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u93	In fact, this is an amendment regarding the name of the law to which the concept of an all-U.S. referendum has been added. The committee came out of another case regarding the name of the law. The committee's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a vote of No. 2 of the Royal People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:30.]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 3, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u95	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Valérie Dubyl. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian people, the "Fatherland" faction today, is firmly opposed to this bill on the sale of our Ukrainian land. We want a referendum to be held, and this is only a matter for the people to decide. This is exactly what today’s authorities promised when they went to the elections. Article 13 of the Constitution says that the earth, its nadra, is the property of the Ukrainian people. Article 14 of the Constitution speaks of the earth as a national wealth under the special protection of the State. For most people, just in terms of war, when our fighters are on the front and protecting our land, you want to sell 72 percent of the country. As long as the bill contains legal persons, banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u96	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u97	This is also really correct only with regard to the title of the article. The committee's been rejected. Only about the name of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, vote on the order of the People's Deputy Dubella. Amendment number 3. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:15]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line number. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've all agreed to put it in the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, we agreed, the position of the committee. So first, we're going after those who are biased. Amendment number 5, National Deputy Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u99	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". At the right hand of number 5, it's clear that we're proposing to keep agrochemical passports. Without them, it is not possible to perform any re-creation today. And who today will care for the ecology that is not present in our country for the fertility of the soil? And now there's a murder without the reoccurrence of Ukrainian land. That is why we insist on voting and supporting. I don't understand why the committee didn't even decide that question when all the amendments were being considered. What's the problem, please tell me, Mr. Solski?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u101	I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u103	Mr. Sergio, we actually have agrochemical passports, and we don't have the land, and we don't even have the leases in place without the agrochemical passports. Regarding agrochemical passports, the subject of this discussion in Bill 2194, which was first read. Therefore, the committee was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u104	Thank you. Are you insisting? Vote number 5 of the Shahov People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 6 of the Shahov People's Deputy. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u105	Mr. Ruslan, there's an 8 right. We can take 3 minutes instead of 16 minutes. Instead of 8 rights, please give me 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u106	Please, 3 minutes, National Deputy Shahov, instead of 8 straights. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u107	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there have been many sounds from this great rostrum. In the future, for restoring confidence in society in this House, parliamentaryism has been virtually destroyed, so trust must still take place in this very room in a democratic way. And when for all the amendments that they've made there, that agrarian committee that we haven't voted for, and today we have to sit here again, and tomorrow, and the next day, when it has to be decided there, with Mr. Solski. I want to pay attention to all my colleagues. Please support each revision because it is very important. And what they said about agrochemical passports, look at what it is and what it's eaten with. What will our next generation eat? We come to this land, we stand in line, and we leave this land. And future generations will live here. Let us treat one another with respect because each one of us has been chosen by the people, what is generally a land issue. We demand that small, medium and large businesses develop today. We demand that there be a state bank today. We're talking about referendums -- let's hear the whole people today that we're ready to bring this to a referendum. Let's let people today see the attitude of the human parliament, 400 people to 45 million people. Let's think that our land is our mother. Can we treat our parents in this room today? They beat each other, they run to that rostrum, we talk about each other, we talk about the third, but not the case. Let's develop, I want to say once again, the agrarian sector, as Oleg Kulinic said. Let us pay attention to those who live on this earth. Let's give compensation for the demarcation line. Which one of you traveled from Chernigov to Snake Island? And we took a walk -- Ruddick, Sumar, Lubinets, and we saw that people were asking us to account for that land on the demarcation line. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u108	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Amendment number 10 of the Klimenko People's Deputy, please. People's MP Klimenko. There's no air conditioner, is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u109	Please. Your time is coming, please. Are you insisting on your right? Don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u110	Wait a minute. What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u111	10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u112	10th? We don't have 10 revisions. You're confusing something.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u113	Line 10, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u114	No, no, I don't insist, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Amendment number 11, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u116	He's asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u117	Oh, you're suggesting we put it up? Because I realized you're taking three minutes, you're taking them. All right, ask me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u118	8 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u119	Not 8, we're going in order. The number 6 of Shahov’s national deputies is then amended to vote. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:35]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 7 of the Shahov People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:54]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 8 of the Shahov People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:14]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Amendment number nine, National Deputy Shahov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:33]] For 118 The decision is not taken. I have a question for the national deputy Shahov. What three more revisions did you include in this list? You'll say, "Yes, when will it come?"
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u120	Let Mr. Solsky answer why.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u121	Please, Solski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u122	Mr. Sergey, with all due respect, but all these adjustments apply to the same thing, and this is again the responsibility of agrichemical passports. They have been obliged for several years. They are. Look, they're here. No state land for agricultural purposes, even the extension of already leased land, is signed and is not issued without the availability of an agrochemical passport. Why is this done? In order to be able to control or worsen the earth at a certain point in the contract’s implementation and to have the opportunity to break the treaty. It's there. And this is the subject of Bill 2194, where there is a discussion on this. Not in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u123	Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment number 11, People's Deputy Frost. Please. Please, Frost, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u124	Frost Volodymyr, 59th constituency. Our faction. I'm against selling the land at all, but I'm asking you to support my amendment. Article 20 complements part of the eighth sentence: "The change in the target destination of the agricultural area may take place not earlier than three years from the moment the owner acquires ownership of such land, except in cases of land secession for social purposes and on grounds of social necessity in accordance with the law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u126	Committee position: To reject this amendment for the following two reasons. First, the change of purpose is one of the two components of the moratorium. The first is a ban on selling, the second is a ban on changing the target. Leaving some of the ban on the change of destination is to leave in some parts of the moratorium. First. The other one. I fully agree with you in part that this issue should be dealt with seriously enough and it is regulated in Bill 2280, which was already adopted in this Parliament in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 11 of the People's Deputies of the Frost. The committee proposes to reject, please identify and vote. [[13:51:52]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, with the procedure of National Deputy Krulko. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u128	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to speak to the chairman at today's Ruslan Stefanchuk meeting. The Speaker of Parliament, like you, has repeatedly claimed that the consideration of the bill, this terrible one for the country, would take place in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. The Supreme Council’s second reading stipulates that each amendment is considered consistently and that national deputies have the right to make some amendments to the confirmations approved by the committee. We demand that this is what the Rules require of this bill to be considered. Why we went through the 4th amendment, which was supported by the committee, and we didn't ask for confirmation -- I have a question. Therefore, I ask that amendment No. 4, which was approved by the Committee and that the bill be considered in accordance with the Rules, be confirmed. Then the words will fit the action, not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u129	Thank you. I'll let you know. Because according to the proposal made by the committee today, taking into account the complexity and need for balance of the bill, all these claims will necessarily be submitted for confirmation, but in the end, in order not to balance the bill. Thank you. Let's move on. Next line is number 12, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u130	Moroz Volodymir, 59th constituency, Donetskina. Me and my faction against selling land. But I'm asking you to support my work. Part five of article 22 reads: "Agriculture lands cannot be owned by foreigners, persons without citizenship, foreign persons, legal persons with foreign investments, legal persons created by Ukraine's legislation, the founder of which is foreign or foreign legal persons, and foreign states. Foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal persons, legal persons with foreign investments, legal persons formed under Ukrainian law, founders of foreigners or foreign legal entities and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u131	Thank you. Highly esteemed colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u132	Committee position. In committee, it is forbidden for any legal person, where, by any fate, they are the founders of a foreigner, to participate and be subject to this law, and to participate in the land market, and to acquire land. Questions about the possible participation of foreigners in the committee should be decided in a referendum. Therefore, the text of the committee’s appeal is different. Given this, the correction is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Vote number 12. Dear colleagues, vote number 12 of the People's Deputies of the Frost. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:40]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 13, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction has consistently taken a firm stand against the embalming of Ukrainian land. Instead, we offer a comprehensive development of lease relationships. For good, good are not sought, Ukraine came first in the world by exporting from one hectare of produce, leaving far behind the United States, Canada, China, Russia and so forth. Friends, this has also given us the very development of leases, renting pies, renting state land and land of communal property. So rent is to protect territorial integrity from embezzlement when we're very vulnerable on all fronts. Rent is the development of communities, because the rent goes to rural development, to the development of united communities. Friends, we're proposing a fundamentally different approach, improving land legislation needs to be in the direction of renting relations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u136	Ivan Grigorovich, your colleagues and I have discussed this lease priority policy in public utilities. This approach deserves attention, and your colleagues and I have repeatedly pointed out that this relates to Bill 2194, which provides for a procedure for the administration of state and municipal lands. And as for grain exports, I want to tell you, Ivan Grigorovich, that's what we've come to the top of, because we have less processing and only the grains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the vote number 13 of the Kirilenka People’s Deputies, is proposed by the committee to reject. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:49]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Amendment 14, National Deputy Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna and Yvchenko, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u138	Dear friends, I just want to make a statement right now. What is happening now is nothing to do with parliamentaryism. You know there are no agrarian associations in this room right now, agrarian unions. Now, they've driven the assistants of the People's Servant to the balcony, and they've even blocked into Parliament people who were members of the Supreme Council of previous calls, and who wanted to be present at this show. This has nothing to do with parliamentaryism, because it has long been decided behind Parliament that the land will be sold including and owned by foreign banks. And that's why it's just a referendum! And only a popular referendum can decide what to do with the earth, everything else is a propaganda and a deception of Ukraine. And I'm asking him to stop right now, and put my bill to the vote, 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u140	This is a similar correction as John Grigorovich did before, so the position of the committee is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u142	At the same time, I would like to mention parliamentaryism. If we raise a transcript of how the Earth Code was adopted in the Supreme Council, which is being amended today, today’s session and all the work on this bill is simply an example of parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 14 of National MP Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:57]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, license number 15 of the national MP Yvchenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, shall we continue for 15 minutes or shall we take a break? Dear colleagues. In the Rules, as chairman, I have the right to continue for 15 minutes. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes without an explanation of the point, so let's move on to the 15th National Deputy Ivchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like to continue what Julia Timoshenko said. We tried to make constructive adjustments on the committee, and we tried to stand down with agrarian associations, so that the bill would be for agriculture and for peasants. Unfortunately, nothing in this agrarian bill has anything to do with the farmer. In this bill, colleagues, there are still lies when they took the connected persons. And when the President says 10,000 acres, he's lying. And I'm talking to the President, one person under this law can have 50, 70, and 80,000 hectares, they've removed the connected persons, and that's a lie. And I'd like you to go to the 4th floor that we wanted to put to the vote, and you all know what the amendment is, so that we can discuss it, so that each of you will make a decision. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u146	The edit actually refers to another one like the previous two, it's about a construct. It's rejected by the committee, it's about the priority of rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-06-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 15 of the national MP Yvchenka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:14]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by factions' leaders, including the Servant of the People, who are still asking me to close the day. morning meeting of the Supreme Council. I'm adjourning the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
