ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Please prepare to register. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Ready? Please register. [[10:08:13]] There are 296 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have four names today. This is Olga Valentinovna Bilkova, Julia Mikolayevna Grishina, Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, and Kaltsev Vladimir Fedorovich. [[Applause]] I wish you success, health, strength, and new accomplishments! Once again, with the holiday! Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council of all the MP factions and groups, there was a suggestion that this week we would also continue the work regime that was in the past. So we're working on Tuesdays and Thursdays until 12. From 12 to 12:30 break. We continue our morning session until three o’clock. If you don't take a break, I'm in. If we're talking about Friday, instead of the "Virgin" half-hour, it stays on the "Virgin" and half-hours to read the queries. And we're still working in normal mode. And that's at the end of our meeting. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the above-mentioned motion for voting. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:10:26]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two MP factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know, dark times always come in very inconspicuous. Citizens are busy with their daily problems, even their basic survival, closing their eyes to increasingly violent crimes of power, thus solving their hands. Step by step, we will soon find ourselves there from where we were or were recently lucky to get out. We remember all the times of Yanukovich. And back then, it wasn't just hard to live, it was hard to breathe. And you know, I thought that the last time I stopped a car accident with beaten people was in 2014. Yes, no! And all of this happens with your silent consent, because you also close your eyes when they hit under the DBR. When debutantes beat MPs, when "Berkut" beats people's courts, that's what it is. For example, Stern’s girlfriend Sternenko’s case was beaten, and this is Alexander Kiriakov, who is a graduate of the History Department, and he is a participant in fighting. And we didn't seem to be able to see these scary pictures anymore, but we were wrong. Rematch is happening in all of us. And as far as Stern Sergei's case is concerned, he can't stand any criticism, because it's about self-defense. This is about human rights, about how a citizen can defend himself in court. And I'd like to say that Sergei wants to quit playing just for saving his own life. And I am very grateful to my colleagues at the Voice faction of European Solidarity that we were all together yesterday. The other one. The attack on democracy is still the most ongoing in the courts. And what's going on in court is unfolding before our eyes in the Court of Appeal in the Janukovich case, and also the fact that this court itself is just a vivid testimony to the rematch of anti-Madan forces. This appeal hearing takes place when Andrew Portov finally was able to regain control of the Ukrainian courts. And you have to understand that probably not for Mr. Zelensky's promotion, it would probably be impossible, because the D.B.I. is run by Janukovich's lawyer. Selective justice, about political persecution, becomes the norm of your life. You know, when opposition leaders are being persecuted in European countries. Do you realize that our Western partners already have their eyes on their foreheads from what's happening in Ukraine? The reaction to political repression itself can be quite harsh for Ukraine. Neither the US nor NATO will support authoritarian regimes. And if the Zelensky authorities don't stop such unwarranted pressure on the judicial branch of power, on the leader of the opposition, Ukraine may lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Please register representatives of the MP factions and groups for the performance. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainians, it is very important for us today to realize that the Kremlin’s strategic objective has not changed. In their sense, Ukraine has the right to exist, but without a Ukrainian substance. Only as part of the Russian world, which is governed by the Kremlin. To this end, it is a priority to destroy, destroy, and tarnish, the historic significance of the Dignity Revolution, tarnish and discredit the heroes of Maidan, the volunteers, the heroes of the ATO, and finally all the statesmen. And for a year now, we've all been watching the gradual implementation of this scenario. It is embodied in parallel with the collapse of the state in all spheres. Now power has taken on the main part of the Kremlin's plan to change the paradigm of social perception. They want to convince society that Maidan is a coup d'état. That Ukrainianization and decommunization are violations of democratic standards. That protecting your Fatherland is a crime. There's an attack on Ukrainian language, on Ukrainian information space, and they're trying to tear down the D.N.A. That is why Zelensky’s authorities, without hiding, began to persecute the most active. And in the case of the Feds, on the right of the Beasts, Chernobyl, Antonenko, Kuzmenka, Větrovitcha, Stern, despite their differences -- actually the chains of one chain. And if we don't stop this Ukrainian anti-rematch, the verdicts will be handed down to everyone. And yesterday's events in court were a vivid demonstration of how we came to be and what the Ukrainian state was going to be going to. And it is clear that the fifth president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is the main target for the Kremlin and Zelenski. Since none of the accusations all of Moscow's media have sounded have been confirmed, they need to fabricate any resonant case. This is done by Vendektova and other penal authorities. Can we prevent this Kremlin scenario? Can we resist? Can we stop the rematch, protect our brothers, save Ukraine? Yes. And the way to this goal is one: a common union, a unification of the entire Ukrainian camp, a unification of all Ukrainian forces. And that's what "European Solidarity" calls for. Because this is our land and our country. We have a responsibility to protect her. Rematch didn't work out. Green's got to go. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u5	Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u6	Please give the word of Zavodnievich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u7	Zavodnievich Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Let me draw your attention to the historic event on our country's integration into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. On November 1, 2019, Ukraine asked NATO to move to a new level of cooperation and become a participant in the Enhanced Opportunities Programme. This program primarily provides for an extension of the practical operational interaction. Provides access to an extended dialogue in the field of intelligence. And it also allows citizens of partner countries to hold positions at NATO headquarters or in the Alliance's command structure. This status is part of the NATO Partnership Initiative on Interaction. The aim is to support and strengthen cooperation between allies and partners that have made a significant contribution to NATO-led operations and missions. As NATO's partner, Ukraine has provided troops for allied operations, including in Afghanistan and Kosovo. As well as for the NATO response and training forces. The Allies highly appreciated our contribution, which demonstrates Ukraine’s favor for Euro-Atlantic security. And on Friday, June 12, the North Atlantic Council recognized Ukraine as a member of the NATO Advanced Opportunities Programme (EOP). Ukraine is now one of six partners with expanded opportunities, including Australia, Finland, Georgia, Jordan, and Sweden. Each partner has an individual relationship with NATO based on sectors of mutual interest. As an extended partner, Ukraine will have increased access to the learning program with compatibility, as well as wider communication of information. NATO allies continue to encourage and support our country in its reform efforts, including in the area of security and defence, civil control and democratic surveillance, and in the fight against corruption. Another confirmation of our progress in security and defence reform and the consistent support of our international partners was the decision of the United States Congress on Thursday, 11 June to approve a security assistance package for Ukraine for the financial year 2020, $250 million under the Ukrainian Security Assistance Initiative. The funds will be directed towards further training, equipment and advice to strengthen our state’s ability to respond more effectively to Russian aggression. Thank you and Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u9	Please, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u10	Dear friends, dear colleagues, I want to tell you that our country is probably one of the most generous countries in the world. We've been giving money to everyone who's been hit, and it's been a pleasure for all of us to do so for the last six years. I'm looking at the Memorandum signed today by an active government, an active government with the IMF, there again we're totally generously paying off, that there will be foreigners on the boards of oversight, that foreigners will determine which judges to appoint around the country, and, most importantly, that we pay generously for their work and do nothing to change that. I want to give you some facts, just so you know what the sums are. Here is a letter from the head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Bakanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. He's been direct about the fact that in the last two years the Wages Management Fund has increased by 22 billion dollars. The left hand side of these funds went to the head of the Ukrainian railway. In fact, foreign leaders and representatives of the Watch Tower Society received 50 million dollars each year. Think what I'm saying! And such oversight councils were imposed on us, foreigners, international currency funds and so forth, in all state - owned banks, in all state - owned enterprises, in all large strategic enterprises. And that's the sum of a billion dollars a year, at least, we're spending just to keep these alien consultants everywhere. Show me something's changed in the banking sector? There's been cheap loans, mortgages, we can give people money for housing, we're, we see witnesses, we're witnesses, and we see that powerful industrial credit programs are being distributed. No! No! That's why we need consultants. Show me the role and benefits of our so-called, crossroad consultants, Naftogazu Ukraine, Energoatum, state-owned large banks. Not at all! At the same time, we give billions of dollars generously. At the same time, if you read this manual, the capital expenditure in the Crucify in 2018 fell by 32 percent, and the plan for the implementation of this capital expenditure fell by 67 percent. 2019 - 58.6. It's Bakanov writing to Schmidt. This means that the Crucifixion is not being updated at all, there are no development programs, no programs for purchasing new materials, no equipment, no safety systems, no locomotives, no cars, no cable products, no travel, no repairs, and we're spending billions on keeping these passengers. So the proposition is, government, still, turn your brains on, and put it in order. We talk about this a lot, but you don't react at all. You're the one who's writing about it, so at least respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u11	People's MP Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u12	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Last week, the International Monetary Fund confirmed the disbursement of $5 billion in financial assistance to Ukraine, of which 2.1 have already reached the state. Clearly, this is not enough, given the country's situation, it's also the global economic crisis, it's also the situation with the coronavirus pandemic. But in any case, these costs are extremely important because they will allow you to maintain a stable course and support the economy of the state. At the same time, people in the districts are very concerned about what conditions Ukraine has taken to get this help and how the government will do it, whether or not there will be a reduction in the education network and in what way. The question of tariffs is whether there will be an increase. The question of retirement is whether it will be viewed. People are also very concerned about the continuation of medical reform, which has been borrowed from foreign experience, completely without regard for the local specificity. The arrangements for granting the tranche should be published by the Cabinet of Ministers together with a clear plan for their implementation, because the credit resources are all very good, but in any case they need to be paid sooner or later, and it is important for the working economy in the state, jobs, balanced taxes. What do we have today? Industrial production in Ukraine, if we take April of the 20th year, compared to the same period last year, dropped by 16.2 percent, and in quarantine, a large number of enterprises just didn't work. The biggest blow came from small and medium - sized businesses, a quarter of enterprises lost up to 40 percent of their income. More than half the businesses are not even sure if they can keep people at work or if they can pay them their wages. Unfortunately, we never saw from the government an effective strategy for the country's exit from the crisis, even a program of action was sent by the Supreme Council for work. At the beginning of the 20th year, tax and tax evasion is about one billion dollars relative to the planned ones. So, in any case, Kabdin must have a clear master of the country's exit from the economic crisis. So we'd like to hear from the government as soon as possible: what action will be taken on this issue, how the economy will work, how the state of affairs in the tax system will be adjusted, which is very important. There should be a clear balance between budget revenues and business opportunities in these difficult circumstances. We believe that increasing budget revenues is not a matter of increasing tax burden, but of getting the economy out of the shadows is the most effective way to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u13	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear National Deputies! An analysis of the plenary week this and the preceding shows that the ruling majority are completely far from the real needs of Ukrainian citizens who are concerned. We've had a new President of Ukraine working for a year, and there's almost a year of Parliament. What, as they say, is in the dry balance after a year's work? The main pre-election promise -- the achievement of peace at Donbassa, the end of the military conflict -- remained on paper: the war continues, they continue to kill people. There is no political will, no determination to take steps to fulfill this promise and to satisfy the aspirations of all people of the country for peace. Last week we witnessed an absolutely disgraceful event when the conditions for obtaining a new tranche from the International Monetary Fund were signed, with the loss of part of our country's statehood. Last week we witnessed the decentralization of the Cabinet of Ministers' authorship, which is more like domestic violence, because they were artificially transformed. Crossed borders within countries and without community participation, unconceived communities are formed in regions. We've seen absolutely failed personnel policy when the main argument in assigning a candidate to a position becomes his non-professionalism and the lack of professional skills in the field to which he is assigned. In fact, this week we're offered a program of government, which is another brilliant declaration, because it's already been adopted. It's already signed by the government when he signed a memorandum with Natzbank of the International Monetary Fund, where doctors, educated people, go further into business, where there's nothing that people really want. So we have a very clear position: we signed a draft decision on the government's release, and he has to resign. This should be voted on because he showed his incompetence. And last of all, this week we're going to have June 21st, the country is celebrating Medical Officer's Day. It's marked in special circumstances. And the task of Parliament is to give a clear signal to the doctors that the state is concerned about them, and with the good words they deserve, of course, must be concrete actions to support them and to make them feel protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to make it clear and clear that our "Fatherland" team is in position to support Sergey Sternenka. I think that terror against patriots is unacceptable, and everything that's going on around it seems shameful and unworthy to Ukraine. But at the same time, I also want to express myself against the cynicism that today has withstood the slogans of political repression. Have we forgotten with you how Michael Saakashvili was thrown out by the President of Ukraine from Ukraine, and we have forgotten how he was humiliated, the man who protected Ukraine always? We have forgotten how dozens of cases against journalists have been broken, and how have we thrown Savik Schuster out of the country? Perhaps we, the Fatherland, will not forget how in the last five years dozens of criminal cases have been committed against the heads of our regional party organizations, and at six o'clock in the morning there have been searches. Therefore, there is no need for exhibitions that cover the true union of those who give national interests to Ukraine. Perhaps we have forgotten who voted together for the surrender of Ukrainian agricultural land? Or we've forgotten who in common in this room voted to turn the National Bank into a tool that's managed by outside financial speculators and created the National Bank as a state in the state. We didn't forget that. We have not forgotten how much anti - Ukrainian today is in the Supreme Council. And what I'm saying is that the memorandum signed with the International Monetary Fund is no joke. I realize there's no point in saying anything in this room right now, because there's a majority sitting here who's willing to give up Ukraine thoughtlessly. But those who now hear me in Ukraine, I want you to read a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, where the Ukrainian land is finally being sold, where all the transport capabilities of Ukraine appear, where today our national corporations are being transferred to the administration of foreign supervisory boards along with the revenue that belongs to the State and that will not go to the State budget of Ukraine. You may not have read that the national interests of our country and every Ukrainian continue to appear here, because the medical reform of Ulysses Suprun and the previous government continues, pension abuse, tariff increases, school closures, fines for those who have not paid on municipal dragon payments is against every Ukrainian and against Ukraine. We're going to act and we're gathering a team of real patriots. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u17	Bobrovska Solomy Anatolyevna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u18	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u19	Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, yesterday we returned with you in 2013 when we saw police officers protecting us beating people on the street, covering the mat when we saw MPs start beating people again, protecting them from our defenders, from the National Police. But, you know, I'm here to remind you of something else and tell you something you probably don't know. You remember the 65 billion special fund to fight the COVID that we all voted for and that you tell all your voters about. So let me tell you where this money is going. To pay, in addition, for the extra effort of those police officers who are currently beating people on the streets, those who rape in stations and those who torture in stations and put on their heads, excuse me, people who have gasses in which they absorb their own blood. I've been informed that 2.7 billion of our taxes have been listed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to pay for the terrible struggle against COVID by the National Police. These people must be working very hard because they have more money to pay than they have to pay to doctors. We all promised the medics 300 percent of the pay, they're gone. Now, at best, the doctor gets 12,000 dollars. A police officer who stands and beats people in court, 10 / 1 Ten thousand. 9,300, to be exact. And these are the accounts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Cops are getting beat up on the streets. And that's what we're being lied to because we've been promised that these 65 billion will go to combat COVID, not pay off the police who are now raping and killing people. Remember the special operation against the man in the cowards that 10 policemen were caught at the Hydropark? Well, each of them got a bonus. This operation of "fishing in man's pants in Hydropark" cost us almost 100,000 dollars, because each of them was paid almost a tenth for such a terrible burden. Ten policemen who caught one naked man in the Hydropark received all the benefits of fighting in COVID. At the same time, if you look at hospitals that are not resilient, little is paid to doctors who quickly rescue those who are brought from COVID. Those traumatologists who are now standing around asking the person after the accident, who has COVID or not, he doesn't have time to take a test. He picks up and operates on this person, and sometimes he pays for it with his life. And the money that should go to support the medics, the money that should go to the purchase of HlVs, the money that should go to the test, is now being used to support an army of Orcs that beat people and MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. I would like to remind you that the last plenary session we concluded at the examination of the issue (registration number 2553) is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the introduction into the natural gas market of accounting and gas calculations in energy units. We have yet to vote in favour of this bill. Please prepare for the vote. If necessary, we can give the floor to a representative of the Ministry. Is it? Yuri Boyko. Please turn on the microphone. A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u22	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry supports this legislative initiative. I would like to point out that this is rather a technical bill aimed at harmonising the legislation of Ukraine and the European Union, and its key effect will be the ability for consumers to pay for the services actually provided, taking into account the physical and chemical characteristics of gas. In response to the comments made during the previous review, I will note that the technical regulations accompanying the bill have already been developed by the Ministry and will be adopted as part of the bill if adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas accounting and gas calculations in energy units (registration number 2553). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:41:33]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to put the next question to the vote is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2835-14). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:42:24]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the project Decision on the Roadmap for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2020 (Registration No. 3662). I can't hear you. Can we vote? I am betting on voting for the entire draft Decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s legislative work for 2020 (registration number 3662). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:43:26]] For 256 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. It's a draft of the People's Landing Act through an all-Ukrainian referendum. We have to cut the lines here. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Peoples' Law by means of an all-Ukrainian referendum (registration number 3612). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:44:16]] For 242 Decision taken. Show me about the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Treatment of Coronary Disease (COVID-19). This is also a short cut. I would like to vote on the proposal to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Treatment of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3636). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:45:20.]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms (for granting free registration to persons with disabilities and persons affected by an accident at the Chernobyl AES) (registration number 2030). It's a second reading. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me who will insist on their rights? Nobody? We can vote. Please don't break up. Ready to vote? Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (for granting free registration to persons with disabilities and persons affected by the Chernobyl AES accident) (registration number 2030). Mikola Leonidovich Skork. Mikola Leonidovich, you're very well-heard. Good afternoon. Just keep it down. Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[10:47:36]] For 334 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Masters (for the non-requirement of credit sanctions during the quarantine period established with the aim of preventing the spread in Ukraine of coronary disease COVID-19) (registration number 3297). The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend. Please tell me. Is anyone insisting on the papers? No, it's not. Let's put it to a vote. I'm voting on a second-reading proposal and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues! A little quieter, please. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship (regarding the non-requirement of fines for credits during the quarantine period established in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COPID-19) (registration No. 3297). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:49:04]] For 344 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues! You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some legislation on State support for cultural, creative industries, tourism, small and medium-sized businesses in relation to restrictive measures related to the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3377). The deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturayev Mikita Ruslanovich, is invited to attend. Is this where they're going to insist on editing? No. 16, Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u24	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u25	5 revisions, Minko. Eight o'clock, Minko. Deirdin won't insist? Babi. Kulinich. Stryharski. Who's going to insist on editing? Princey. Okay. Then let's go over the table. Galajchuk. Sin. Princess, 66 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u26	Thank you. It is the role of the Ministry of Economics in the process of publishing provisional tariffs for restaurants, TV channels, radio stations for the use of copyright objects. According to today's standard, the Mineconomy receives these temporary tariffs from the CCI, the management organization, and they're just published on its website without checking. But the law does require tariffs to be reasonable, objective, but no one checks them, although this is important, since it is essentially a matter of monopolized congregations. Therefore, Amendment 66 provides that Mineconomies should publish the tariffs of a collective management organization only after they have been checked to comply with the requirements of the law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u27	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the committee has rejected this amendment by Mr. Knieżicky because of the number 61, we believe that this is enough to avoid the risks that Mikola Leonidovich says are venerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 70 Laws, Vejatrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u30	An amendment is proposed which will legally ensure that, in areas where activities in a collective management organization are defined by law, users cannot be further requested to obtain another permit from intermediaries to use the relevant works and to pay the royalty. In this way, the legal and transparent payment of the Royalty to the right authors will be guaranteed, and finally, the stopped shadow market of copyright in Ukraine, which deprives authors and performers of the opportunity to receive fair royalty. Please support Amendment 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u31	Don't you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote number 70. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:24]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 80 edit Ironborn, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u32	Dear Sir, your head! I've got three more rejected revisions down there. If I may, I would like to speak immediately and not put them to the vote. The fact is that this bill did not support the first reading because there were a lot of things in it that unfortunately touched the agricultural relationship. We've filed our papers from the Voice faction, and I'm grateful to the committee, and now to the current minister of culture, that these were considered and most of them are included in this law. Now the text of the bill for second reading is fully in line with those requirements that both creative industries and the Voice faction have imposed on us. That's why we're going to support this bill and we're going to keep trying to make sure that not only this legislation, but primarily the tax and other benefits that the creative industry is now begging us for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Quiet. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I will not continue to insist on every turn and vote. At the same time, I would like to point out that this bill is an example of how we did not expect specific proposals from the government and decisions to support those areas and sectors that have suffered from the pandemic, the economic and financial crisis, this is an example of when, at the level of the committee, members of all the factions that are part of the committee, and today, about 600,000 people working in this area, who have created more than 4 percent of the country's GDP until the start of quarantine, this is. Thank you for taking into account a large part of our proposals, I will not insist on voting. We still have serious warnings about how to do this, but we will control and require the government to carry out the tasks assigned by this law by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u35	Thank you. I understand you won't insist on betting. Thank you. Please. Don't insist. Next, number 83, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u36	Ironman, 96 lashes. Don't insist. Princely, 103 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u37	110th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u38	105th, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u39	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to testify once again that we support this law, we support those who work in the cultural industry, and we demand clear concrete action from the government. Less words -- more results to be felt by people. I will no longer insist on the following amendments, and I ask you to proceed to the vote for the bill, and he is already late with his approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u40	110 lashes. Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u41	Mr. Chairman of the Committee and Mr. President of the Supreme Council! It's a very important readjustment. There's been a mistake in the law. It is accepted in an editorial way, but the accepted edition allows for the possibility, with the approval of the Nakrad, that the requirements of the law may not be met. Obviously, this mistake needs to be corrected, because neither the Nacrad nor any other body has the right to indulge, for example, allow for the promotion of pornography or propaganda of armed aggression. Yesterday, the matter was agreed upon with the committee secretariat. I'm asking you to place a copy of the 10 with editorial details, by which the words "extremely established by law" should be changed to "licension conditions" so that everyone can comply with the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u42	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u43	Yes, the position of the committee is that it is necessary to support the drafting of the People's Deputy as proposed in the table, and thus correct the technical error that has been stolen from the editorial. Well, when you're editing. Please be supportive. I would like to support the proposal made by the representative of Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u44	I mean, the committee doesn't object. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u45	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote number 110 of the People's Deputies of Knieżick. It was not counted by the committee. Rather, it has been taken into account in an editorial way, but the state of affairs for the time being does not deny that this amendment is being taken into account. Please prepare for the vote. It's got to be taken into account. Now we wait, everyone comes along, we vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 110 of the People's Deputy of the Prince. Please support and vote. [[11:01:16]] For 305 Edit included. Dear colleagues, will there be any further revisions? The Gethmans. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to sign off on the 23rd. I'll explain what this is all about. In the first reading, there was an exemption for small and medium-sized people, generally for all tenants who do not do their work during the coronavirus period, they get the right to lower their rent. They are obliged to pay the utility bills and compensate the renter. During the second reading of the bill, the subcommittee rejected this standard. I think that people who have no income and have no source for their existence have no opportunity to pay rent, and they should be given the credit. So I'm asking you to apply for confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u48	Just a minute. Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? The position of the committee and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? This applies to a million people or no more, because this is not just about creative industries. I'm asking you to hear me, dear colleagues. There was a very heated committee discussion on this issue. The committee, in principle, is not about getting rid of rent, but creating opportunities for creative industries to survive this difficult time. But there's another point of view that we can't take down the renters, so we're compromised, even though we're on the committee against this amendment. I wanted you all to know that. But we made this painful compromise. This is 23 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the motion to confirm the amendment number 23. The author of the Ironworks, right? People's Deputies of the Ironworks. Please vote. [[11:05:37]] For-142 Edit rejected. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, you are invited. Excuse me, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and generally, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on State support for culture, creative industries, tourism, small and medium-sized businesses in relation to restrictive measures related to the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration No. 3377). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:39]] For 343 The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill (registration number 2335), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of a person without citizenship. Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Luhansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations by Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! December 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u52	Dmitri Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, you can't speak here. Just you. Is there anyone who insists on editing? None. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of a person without citizenship (Registration No. 2335). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:08:41]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two MP factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u53	Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs! Yesterday there was a court-martial over Sergey Sternenko. My colleagues from the Voice faction and I came to the court to take Sergio Sternenk on bail. But which one of us just got out of court, what did we see? We've seen how the Avakov police, and more specifically the former Berkuts, which are now the new, so-called Avakov police, have started packing people. They began to pluck out the crowds, who were just actively expressing their position, and they began to tear out people who had the right to a peaceful protest, and they took them into vans. Of course, my colleagues and I couldn't just watch it and go there. As a result, yes, we managed to get a number of activists out. But here are the results of the work of our police, who are now treating the work of the national MPs, who are taking their stand against it, against it, not only in the Supreme Council but also under the courts. Dear colleagues, first of all, you were put here first to push the buttons, not to discuss the issue and your position, then you started off with the President's Office to drop the personnel questions, who to vote for, who to support. Now, honourable colleagues, when you stand up for your citizens, for your constituents in the courts, you will be beaten not only by all the Ukrainians who are tortured, raped and murdered, but also by you, your esteemed colleagues. And these are also the results of our police. But the problem is not that MPs are being beaten, it's the least problem, we can still protect ourselves, the problem is that no Ukrainian now, whether it's a national MP, whether it's a doctor, or a student, he's not feeling safe, he's feeling the impunity of the police and absolute injustice and he can't protect himself. That's why the Voice faction and I initiated the Habakkuk Liberation Order, and it's registered. And this week we're going to be collecting signatures for an emergency session to put this order to a vote. Because what beats MPs is yesterday's story, it doesn't matter, it's important that nobody feels safe in this country. You don't feel safe at home. Under their house, where they, in particular, approached Sergey Sternenko for the third time and tried to kill him, you don’t feel safe either. Under the building of a court in a peaceful protest, you don’t feel safe either. And the name of this danger for every Ukrainian is Habakkuk. That's why we're signing Habakkuk off. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u54	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Act on Shareholders (Registration No. 2493). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:12:48]] For 196 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Podlasi Roxolani Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u55	Good afternoon, fellow believers, Bill 2493 refers to the simplification of the management of shareholders and the protection of the rights of minority shareholders. One of the main novels of the bill is the strengthening of the protection of the rights of minority shareholders. Because most minority rights today occur when these shareholders own 10 percent of the shares in general. I mean, if you have less than 10 percent, you can't go to court, for example, when the CEO of the stockholder company is causing material damage to the company. In general, this rule excludes the possibility for the minority to defend their rights in court and to counteract the abuse of shareholders with a controlling set of shares that have their own principal and its executive body in the company. The same applies to conducting an audit or convening of general congregations in which you have to look for allies. We propose to give all these rights to a group of minority shareholders who collectively own 5 percent of the shares. This will, of course, lead to a significant improvement in their position and higher protection of portfolio investments. In addition, Bill 2493 proposes that an electronic general assembly be set up. Because now star general congregations can only be held in societies with 25 shareholders and only if they make decisions unanimously. In fact, in large stockholder societies, everyone, both minority and majority shareholders, who cannot be present, is excluded from corporate management. That's why we still have a number of novelties there, and they're all going to help Ukraine improve its position in terms of ease of business rating and better protect portfolio investments first. We continue to work on the document, including the scientific community.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u56	Thank you. As always, there was not enough time for the scientific community. I give the floor to the Economic Development Committee's report to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Andryovich Natalusi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u57	Colleagues, Your Honor, Honorable Colleagues, a rather comprehensive report by my colleague Mrs. Podlaso. I just want to add that this law on 2 things: simplicity and transparency. About transparency in the management of stockholders. The simplicity of making decisions. And most importantly, to protect minority shareholders whose rights are sometimes violated by majority shareholders. So the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading. In the process of processing, we are waiting for your suggestions and comments. Thank you very much. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Podlas Roxolan Andriyevn, Political Party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u59	Pass the word to Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u60	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the previous law or the Act on Shareholders was passed in 2008 when we didn't really know or saw how the equity institution worked. We had post - Soviet ideas about this institution, which was reflected in the text of the law. Today, so many years later, these ideas certainly do not match reality, do not match the present state of affairs. This law brings the standard into line with modern standards. The holding of the general congregations is improving. It is predicted that they can be carried out in electronic form. A corporate counselor is being introduced to advise and assist shareholders. The legal status of a corporate secretary is being regulated, which can now simply be appointed by the Supervisory Board of the Shareholder Society, but the status is not regulated. There has already been talk of a derivative lawsuit that today can be presented by shareholders with a package of more than 10 percent. And we're proposing to protect rights and minorities as well. In addition, the accounting of limited liability and liability associations is maintained in the central depository system. In itself, Ukrainian legislation has been brought into line with EU Directive 1132 since 2017. As far as division, association, distribution of stockholders. The bill is very useful. Please support it with a green button on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u63	Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! This bill aims to improve corporate governance in stockholder societies, in line with European standards and standards. With the aim of expanding the possibility of involving the capital by domestic owners and ensuring that investors are adequately protected. A number of valid codes and a series of professional laws are scheduled to be amended. And most importantly, the update, I would even say the update of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. The law was enacted today, think about it, 11 years ago. During this time, there have been significant changes. In our view, the bill contains a number of initiatives that can significantly improve the functioning of shareholders. A positive initiative should be taken to simplify the management structure of the stockholders’ company, which is called upon to simplify the activity of a particular category of shareholders. It is also important to increase and improve the legal responsibility of shareholders for damage. The current AT Law regulates the liability of officials only in general terms. At the same time, the bill contains a series of norms that need to be worked out, and I want to stop at some of them. For example, such an initiative runs counter to the general costs incurred by the shareholder in filing a lawsuit in the interests of AT, damages incurred by AT, his or her person, irrespective of the court’s case. Therefore, the MPs will support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, I want to say that this bill has been thoroughly and consistently sounded today from the rostrum, and three important aspects that I want to say have improved the simplicity, transparency and efficiency of governance. The bill has an impact on improving the business rating; it will help domestic stockholder societies to do their work at an absolutely practical, simple and effective level. At the same time, I would like to point out that our partners in the EU Committee say that the regulatory framework for Directive 2017/1132 has not been fully implemented, which should be taken into account between the first and the second readings. We are talking about the mechanisms for identifying persons who make formal disclosures of penalties for failure to provide mandatory information, for defining disclosure rules. And the Committee on Integration's conclusion today is that this should be taken into account between the first and second readings. I also want to say that this bill amends more than seven laws and legislative acts that we will need to regulate. The introduction of a new decision-making transparency mechanism and the protection of each shareholder is a very important aspect that we should take into account today. At the same time, I want to say that contradictions we have the opportunity to eliminate between the first and the second readings. So the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support the first reading, and on the committee, we made our proposals, our corrections based on our partners from other committees: the Committee on European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u68	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u69	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! As far as European standards are concerned, and as far as the constitutional rights of our citizens are concerned. This law is completely violated, colleagues, the rights of our minority shareholders, vouchers distributed all over the country, then people began to hoard, someone became a minority, someone became a major. How will we protect those who have a small shareholding shareholding? That's not how it works in Europe. In Europe, another court system. Colleagues, the masked robbery of the state, don't they have a direct institution of independent directors? What are they, colleagues, independent directors of state enterprises, on whom are they independent? And then supervised independent councils from independent people in stockholder societies with a large part of the state on which they, colleagues, are independent? And the government's masked robbery, please look at the cloudy wages of these independent people working on the boards. We've got 500 thousand dollars in the Crossroads today, and a simple worker who works in the Upper Plains gets 4-5 thousand. This is a faithful law for our citizens. Colleagues, this law does not improve the investment climate. This law does not take into account the interests of minority shareholders. And don't hide yourself when you talk and report on this law through European practices, the institution of independent directors from the state, independent supervisory boards from the state directly in state-owned enterprises, and huge wages -- that's what this bill is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u70	Motivated by Iron. The "Serve of the People" spoke. No, one person from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I am grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u72	Wait, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Is there anyone else with a motive? After that, we'll have a representative of the Ministry and then we'll go to the polls in two minutes. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to you that we are considering this law today, and business has been waiting for him for many years. You know, about the need to update legislation on equity societies, we bumped into the committee as soon as the coronavirus started, when it was clear that many Soviet standards were simply impossible to implement. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Mr. Ivanchuk, who passed one of the breakthrough laws in the past. And today, this is the next step in updating our corporate legislation and the requirements that are now needed for modern technology and the requirements that are now required for the implementation of normal business in this country at the level of international standards. So I'm grateful that you're supporting this law today and where I'm the author of the first reading and I'm confident that we're going to work on the second reading together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u74	Lebanon Maksim Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u75	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We've really been working on this bill for over a year. It is designed to provide the maximum opportunity for shareholders to regulate the rights and management of their shareholders as they are most comfortable. We really implement a lot of European experience, we give the maximum opportunity to implement those mechanisms that are convenient, we introduce electronic voting and so on. There are, indeed, questions that need to be addressed in the second reading, so we would very much ask all the national deputies from all the factions to support this bill in the first reading, and we will work on it thoroughly before the second reading on the basis of the working group of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Shareholders (Registration No. 2493). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:29:31]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Act amending Chapter X, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of Ukraine's System Act. I'm sorry. A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've already spoken today, I've said that we have such a generous state that in two years we pay the last 50 million members of the boards of supervisors in various state institutions and businesses that are currently working for damages, looking for funds for modernization, they don't know where to find them. At the same time, the State generously distributes these funds to foreigners. But what is 50 million each? And I'm going to tell you that 50 million each is the sums that don't even go to local authorities today to solve real emergency problems. I had, for example, 15 million in my native Vinickets to do, to lead to the mind of the sewer. In Starocostin, we planned to finish school. Waterboats in different areas, sewers, sewage treatment plants, real utility companies, and so on. For 50 million a year -- even small amounts, it would seem, that we pay just in the hands of individual foreigners -- would be available to each region. And what do we see? The government continues this practice, distributes money to foreigners, and places zero. The last week, interviews are being held at the Ministry of Regional Development, in a government with district representatives, and spending on socio-economic development in the regions. So, just so you know, for every district of the MPs, 10 million dollars are allocated, that's one fifth of what foreign people are making. Therefore, there is only "ministers of the people" and all the other deputies represented in Parliament today do not exist for this government at all. But God is with him, with the deputies. For you, there are no whole territories, areas, areas where your representatives are not selected. What, not the same people, not the same people who chose you and supported you when the presidential election was going on? Aren't those the same people who elected the President today? That's why you're depriving them of funds that you're not letting go of school, gardens, sewage, plumbing, and giving people the opportunity to live in normal conditions. Why are you deposing these territories? So we demand, Dmitri Alexanderovich, on behalf of Parliament, that on Friday the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance report to whom, where the areas, where the districts, how much money will be allocated this year, and compare, and see the tables, and show the whole country the government's attitude to individual areas, to individual districts, to particular areas and regions. And let them explain why there are 50 million wages for foreign overseers, and for districts, for 5 districts and cities there are 10 million, for 1 district of 1.5 million or 2 million. Tell me, what kind of practice is this? Where's your sanity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending Section X of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the System of Guarantee of Investments of Persons to facilitate the performance of the functions of the National Bank of Ukraine to protect the interests of investors and creditors of insolvent banks (Registration No. 2459). Ladies and gentlemen, may we have a little quieter, please? Dear colleagues! Thank you. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:34:15]] For 249 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich. Please include four minutes, both from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'd like to suggest you take it. We recommended it by committee as a basis, and I think we can take it both on the basis and in general. A very simple and important bill at the same time. A bill on the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to facilitate the performance of the functions of the National Bank of Ukraine to protect the interests of investors and creditors of insolvent banks. What is the essence of this bill? It was developed along with investors' associations that were affected by the "bankopede" in Ukraine. I recall that more than 100 banks have lost their licenses and that investors have found themselves in a very difficult situation. When the National Bank understood the future "bankopad" and understood the magnitude of the withdrawal of commercial banks from the market and the loss of their savings by investors adopted a very simple law in the 14th year that put the National Bank out of the five creditors first. What does that mean? This means that when the Deposit Guarantee Fund sells out the bank’s assets, the Bank’s National Bank of Ukraine remains the front line. So the bank, the National Bank, which was overseeing these commercial banks, was putting the curators there, on a daily basis, the state of these banks, understood what was going on in their balance sheets, took part, I'm sure, in the theft of funds along with the shareholders of these banks, in the theft of investor funds, then wants money from the realisation of these damaged banks and their assets first. Why is this important? Because the National Bank issued, so-called, refinancing loans to commercial banks, which were largely out of these banks in 14-15 years, were simply stolen through the purchase of currency at a low rate, which was then increased, through the issuance of credits to fictitious firms, simply through transactions in the preparation of these funds. These refinancing loans to the National Bank, after they were stolen by shareholders of banks that, I recall, none of whom were injured, did end up behind bars and didn't become figures of really effective criminal cases, all of them were deprived of any persecution, and they're all at large, the National Bank just wants to return this money to itself at the expense of the investors, so that they don't be part of these corrupt schemes that it actually smoked and crushed. To that end, they moved themselves first of all to creditors and got all the money from the realisation of the assets of banks. As a result, tens of thousands of bankers, including system banks, such as Delta Bank, Finance and Credit, Bank Forum, ViB Bank, Financial Initiative. Tens of thousands of people were unable to obtain the money they had stored in these banks, more than 200,000 guaranteed by the State. Which, I remind you, was originally about $12.5 thousand on course 8, and now it's four. In doing so, it is very important to stress that the adoption of this law will allow the National Bank to move where it belongs, into the fourth row of creditors, and into the fifth row of creditors. When investors get their money first, that is, people who are guaranteed protection by the deposit guarantee system, the Constitution of Ukraine, and all laws. This is where we are gathered, in this room, to guarantee this protection. First, investors, then the National Bank, which is corrupt and has a very large number of corruption scandals. Thank you very much. Please accept as a whole. In the interests of investors of Ukrainian banks who are deprived of their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing all my colleagues, all the national deputies in this room, the people our Ukrainian citizens chose with you. We promised them that we would work for their good, we would do good, we would do good. And now this moment and this bill is exactly the moment when we can show our voters that we really care about them. Because they became and suffered as a result of the ineffective activities of individual commercial banks, the National Bank of Ukraine. As a result of these ineffective actions, they were deprived of the right to fight for their own, for what they owned, for the trust that they gave to commercial banks and invested, and invested their personal money in these banks. This bill on the return of trust and justice. This bill applies to more than 30,000 investors in Ukraine's largest "bankopadia". In Ukraine's history, this "bankopad" has not happened in many years. And now we have an opportunity with you to show that we stand on the side of people today, and we understand that everyone is having a hard time with banks, including, but first of all, we have to protect people, investors. I very much ask everyone to support this bill by voting on the basis and in general, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u82	Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u83	I'd like to give you a word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u84	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, you've all just heard the purpose of this bill. Actually, no investors have to fight the state or the banks for their investments. It is the essence and role of the State in providing State-owned instruments with public policy in the banking sector. You've all read what you wrote. The conclusion of the GNEU from this bill. And here is a key observation that the bill does not contain any financial and economic justification. So today, I've asked them to give us the numbers that the bill will bring. The numbers I want to give you. On January 1st, 19th, the debt owed to the NBA for refinancing loans amounted to 46.6 billion dollars. On February 1, 20th, this sum is 42.9 billion dollars. The potential non-refundability will cause the National Bank to have to form a reserve for the full amount of the debt and write off that debt. So for all of that, the state doesn't get its share. I'd like to remind you all, Your Honor, that this year you survived because the National Bank counted 24.45 billion dollars into the state budget. The following year, after the adoption of this bill, the state budget will not receive a single penny at all, and there is a letter from the National Bank to the Head of the Supreme Council explaining the situation. And second. If you support this government, then support that balanced approach programme and increase the guaranteed amount of compensation for the contributions of natural persons from 200 to 800,000 dollars to the 22nd year. This will be part of the solution. And the second part is the decrease in ROI, the return on capital that banks now have. And the fact that they now have an income is really bad. The solution to these two questions will allow you to do so once you have adopted the Government Program.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. And with motive, will anyone then insist? "The Voice," "The Servant of the People." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u87	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, the MP's Group for the Future will vote and support the adoption of this bill. We vote in favour because this will restore confidence both in the National Bank of Ukraine and in the banking system in principle. Therefore, we urge all national MPs to unite, vote. The main argument is that after the adoption of the bill, apart from trust in Nazbank and the banking system, the repayment of refinancing loans would not be at the expense of the bank's payers but would be at the expense of the bank's owners' financial and asset liabilities, including the cost of the compensation paid by the creditors of the banks. So this is certainly the right thing to do. We vote in favour. And we urge the entire Parliament to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u88	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u89	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Mikhailo Papiev, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". A very important bill. And he's interesting from the point of view that he's going to be an indicator of how much Ukraine is under external control today. Why? Because this is the first time we've seen a bill initiated by the "ministers of the people" that actually protects Ukrainian citizens. Not the banking system, not the raiding, not the financial speculators, but primarily the citizens of Ukraine. Because it's always been our people who have suffered from bank failures, bank liquidations that they've been getting. They were. Last but not least, they met their requirements. First of all, the requirements of the National Bank and other relevant structures were met. And here you have heard today. Everyone's worried and worried about the National Bank. Let's think about it, the National Bank regulator. And now that I've heard the sum of 42 billion dollars of refinancing, listen up. So we know on what conditions they gave, what corruption had been established there. And I am confident that this law must be passed by all the Ukrainian national deputies. Support our citizens. To support people. But I also predict that on second reading it will not allow us to accept it as a whole of the International Monetary Fund. Because today, they make this impression, is the roof of this corruption in the banking system. They will not today want to protect the interests of people, the interests of investors. And they will first stand for financial speculators, banking corruption and the interests of the National Bank of Ukraine. Our faction will vote in principle for this law. And we urge the second reading to vote and protect our citizens in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! I'm just going to explain in one minute what this law is about. Many say that the law protects the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. In fact, this law is about taking money from the poor and giving it to the rich. So what we're saying right now is that the budget should spend about 40 billion dollars, so that's the money that's going to go to teachers, to doctors and so on. So we're taking the poor Ukrainians. And we give the rich to those who, unfortunately, lost more than 200,000 dollars after some banks went bankrupt. Really, it's bad. This money has to be returned to the people. But those people who lost less than 200,000 are protected by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Because of that, it actually looks like a good law. And the fact is, we're going to take the poor and the richer, we're going to give it up. So I urge you not to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u92	Fries Igor Pavlovich. And then we're going to vote for the law. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It was very strange to hear how in the state we have the poorest things that Nazbank and the large creditors who go in the first row to meet their demands. I want to support our colleague Alexander Dubinsky with this bill. And convince you to give him voice and support. In view of the fact that we really need to protect those citizens who were making bank deposits. And the guarantee of 200,000 dollars for those huge sums of money that citizens kept in banks, you can see for yourself, it's a very small fraction. And if these citizens stay at the end of the list of creditors, and we can't in any way guarantee that they get even these funds, so, in principle, to my deep belief, it's unfair. And you and I have come here to make justice the highest value we have here and why we came here. So I would like to support this bill, both in the first and in the future, for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move to voting for the bill. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Final and Transitional Provisions Act of Ukraine "On the System of Guarantee of Investments of Persons" to facilitate the performance of the functions of the National Bank of Ukraine to protect the interests of investors and creditors of insolvent banks (Registration No. 2459). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:51:45]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions have come forward, this is an announcement for the leaders of the MP factions and groups, two factions have come forward to hold a meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and groups and the Parliament's leadership in the break of the 12th. Wait till 12:30, we're not breaking up yet. Wait till the break doesn't start at 12:30 in my office. Let's keep going. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels (biocomponents) in the transport sector (registration number 3356). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:52:50]] For 215 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities of Seminski Oleg Valeriyovich. Please give me four minutes, both from the author and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u95	Your Honor, your colleagues! For your consideration, the first reading proposes a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels in transport (registration number 3356). The bill is called on to reduce the country's import dependence on the market for light petroleum products, and it will also help create new jobs to save both financial and labour resources for the needs of the national economy. This is a mandatory addition of 5 percent of bioethanol to petrol, and I would like to emphasize, car gasoline, since July 1, 2021. And then, according to the 22nd year, 6 percent, 23 percent, 7 percent. Addition to gasoline other than car gasoline is 98, because we considered it to be a small fraction of gasoline and so on. Let me give you a few examples. For example, in 2019 more than $5.5 billion was spent on imports of petroleum products, spending 8 million tons of oil products. So the introduction of this law will already reduce our independence and our nation's payments for the light of oil products. All of these figures are convincingly indicative of the removal of circulation costs from the national economy, when part of this product can be replaced with a national resource by supporting its own manufacturer. In addition, I would like to remind you that all this work is going on as part of Ukraine's commitment to adapting national legislation to European co-operation legislation, in particular through the 28 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Ukraine's export duty-free quota to the EU is now 100,000 tonnes. To illustrate our closest EU neighbour, the Republic of Poland, who is now producing 800,000 tons of bioethanol, and the population of Poland, 38 million people. I want to say, 90 percent of European gasoline, they're already with bioethanol, that's it. I also want to point out that the legislative initiative was supported by the Energy Society Secretariat, here. What is proposed? Define. For manufacturing, import, fuel, and motor alternatives in Ukraine’s customs territory. There is also control of the city of liquid biofuels in the biocomponent in the fuel engine and fuel alternative to the oil market. Commitments have been made to the central executive body, which implements national policies in the fields of efficient use of fuel and energy resources and energy conservation of renewable energy sources and alternative fuels, Sustainable Energy Efficiency. The order of administration and accounting is proposed for the approval of Minecoenergo. And we're also strengthening the function of the Country Inspectorate of Ukraine on the quality of our fuel. Because today we have, well, Euro-3, Euro-4, and we've been working very well with the oil suppliers, and so on. So the introduction of this bill will create a legal field that will allow for a powerful investment in this field to be made in the country and a full-scale start to the alcohol industry. You know, we have a company called Ukrispirt that's already ready to produce bioethanol, because there are technical conditions and so on. In a word, it'll increase job creation, and that's taxes, it's a social factor, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u97	No, clearly there will be a discussion. They'll insist on discussing it. Let's go back to the discussion after the break. There's a break until 12:30. But the proposal to vote was very correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Let's get back to work. Sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u99	Please give my word to my colleague Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u100	Again. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, at the eighth call, this bill was also proposed, and it is really necessary. First of all, it's the realisation of agricultural products, first of all, that's not what you can do, for example, in the market, or in ports, for example: molasses, or grain, or something else. This will enable us to start our liquor plants, which will be used to produce biofuels. It's coming into local budgets, it's jobs. But there are also a lot of observations, which means first of all, if you introduce this law, it doesn't have to be forced. That is, there must be a choice at the power stations for those who use a car, that is, they have the right to choose either to drive a car with or without biofuels. Because, unfortunately, not all cars are yet available, not all engines are equipped with such fuel. So that's exactly what we're going to have to take into account. So, I think by the second reading with the amendments, you can essentially settle this issue and I think there's going to be a quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u102	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, today we are considering one of the most complex drafts. I'm not going to avoid the difficult questions that we're up against here today. Let's think about what he's talking about. Today, we say that Ukraine plans to introduce a mandatory quota, at least 5 percent, in order for our fuel to produce an additive produced from bioethanol. Is that good or bad? I have two news for you. One is bad, the other is good. The bad news is that Ukraine is and remains, and unfortunately not all of us are friendly in the near future. This is bad news. And the good news is that we can do something today to gain at least 5 percent of our independence. Who's producing bioethanol today? Is that 1 oligarch, 2 oligarchs, 3 oligarchs? No, it's not. The potential of bioethanol production today is in every area. All the areas of Ukraine today are filled with agrarian production, whose waste and basic products can be completely produced today, converted into bioethanol, as they do in Brazil today, as they do in Poland, which is next to us, while we are the raw material. The Ukraine that I'm dreaming of is energy-dependent and such little steps today allow us to change the history of this country more than any declaratory action. The Fatherland faction will support the first reading. We're going to prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u104	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u105	Please give it to Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u106	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u107	Good afternoon, dear friends, dear colleagues! You know this bill isn't just about ecology, it's not just about energy dependence, it's not just about agriculture. We understand, and we see, and we can read that this bill is about defining the mandatory, emphasising the word "obligatory", bits of biofuel content in the amount of car gasoline. I would like to remind you that in 2012, the then Parliament approved the law with identical figures of the mandatory use of the amount of biocomponents’ fuel supplement. And then this rule was broken, and we remember who, Edward Stavitsky, then minister of the agropolitics, Nicholas the Jury. The BRSM, which was then linked to Stavitsky, then established the production of bioethanol on the site of state-owned Spirit Plants, which was part of the Ukrispirt. In 2015 this rule of law was abolished, more faithfully replaced by another. And then it was actually recognized, well, such a direct lobbyism of individual oligarchs and the harmfulness of this situation. We understand that lobbyists refer to the international experience in the use of alternative fuels, such as European experience. However, all countries, friends, all EU member countries guarantee the preservation of traditional oil supplies for unadapted vehicles. That is, there is no mandatory norm and there is no threat of fines in the European Union, and we introduce this. In addition, I pay attention to the following. Another problem is the maintenance of mandatory addition, according to experts market participants, is the incompetence of Ukrainian motors and motorists. In fact, alternative fuels are not suitable for the use of old cars that prevail in Ukraine today. In view of these circumstances, I believe that this bill needs further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u108	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. And then there's two speeches with a motive and we're going to vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u109	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! With regard to this bill (3356), with all due respect to the drafters of this bill from different factions, I would like to invite my colleagues to refrain from adopting it. The arguments cited by the drafters of the bill about what it might be like to help our ecology, as if this would really push our manufacturing industry forward, are, in other words, not true. There are quite a lot of problems in terms of circulation and cultivation, such as raps and sunflowers in Ukraine. We believe that this could lead to the exhaustion of the Ukrainian Blacklands. There's a lot of counterversive rules in the bill, the technical standards it has. Therefore, the Opposition Platforms for Life suggests that colleagues refrain from this bill. The government programme will be under review this week. And I would very much like the government in this program to shed light on the development of our agrarian sphere. Because those climate changes that we've seen over the last few years, they have caused quite a blow to our agriculture. And our farmers are suffering terrible damage from what is happening today in Ukrainian lands, including not only because of the weak policy of our authority, but also because of the climate. And there must be appropriate measures by the government to restore the system of irrigation, irrigation of our lands. In this case, really, if we're going to take a complex approach to these issues, we're going to understand that we have a normal circulation of cultures that we're growing. Then this question can be considered. Yet again, I propose to refrain from adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u110	Vintonak Olena Vasilovna with motive. After that, Lušnjak. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u111	Good afternoon, colleagues! I would like to tell you that the draft law set out to implement the provisions of Directive 2009/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on encouraging the use of energy produced from renewable sources to ensure that Ukraine fulfils its international commitments to the share of energy from renewable sources. At the same time, the gross final consumption of energy in transport should be at least 10 percent. The introduction of this bill also leads to a qualitatively new level of energy and resource-saving technologies. The Ukrainian Integration Committee with the European Union reviewed the draft law at its meeting on 3 June and decided that the draft law for its purpose did not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations. However, there is a need for work to be done exclusively in the field. about the technical definitions there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u112	Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u113	Dear fellow national MPs, this document is very important for many reasons. First of all, its adoption will help to increase the utilization of liquid biofuel companies, which will contribute to investment in this sector, which is going to increase jobs. I think in quarantine conditions and in the number of jobs lost by our citizens, such initiatives should be taken by Parliament first. Secondly, this bill is aimed at implementing the provisions of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. What is specifically proposed? In fact, it creates a regulatory framework for the development of the area of circulation and the use of liquid biofuels in transport. Thirdly, our country is transformed from a large importer of petroleum products into an import, where is the preservation of our roads, the preservation of our energy dependency. So the Trust MPs will actively support this bill and also accept it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels (biocomponents) in the transport sector (register No. 3356). Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:35]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Targeting the workflow. Ready to vote? I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the mandatory use of liquid biofuels (biocomponents) in the field of transport (registration number 3356). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:49:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. Dear colleagues. Thank you. On June 12, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputy, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on July 21, 2019, in the state-wide election district of Maslova Denis Vejeslavovic, is included in the electoral list of the political party "Slut of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I commit myself to upholding the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to shoulder my responsibilities in the interests of all fellow countrymen. I'm betting on my own signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act to improve the individual issues of the conduct of citizens of the Ukrainian military service. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:52:12]] For 219 Decision taken. The report is given to a member of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Zdeby Jury Viktorovich. Give it four minutes from both the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u117	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Dearly beloved, our soldiers! I suggest that you consider the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 20 and article 23 of the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act on the improvement of individual issues of the conduct of citizens of the Ukrainian military service (registration No. 2592). The purpose of the draft bill is to allow the military service of the Ukrainian State Border Service, the Ukrainian Security Service identified as unfit for military service, to continue carrying out military service. And the possibility of being admitted to military service for persons released from military service who have not reached the age of military service and who have been recognized by a military medical commission as unfit for military service in health, as a result of illness, injury. These include injuries, injuries, and injuries resulting from military service duties. In addition, I note mental, sensory, psychological, mental, and other mental disorders defined by Ukrainian legislation. Military experience, quality and motivation for the military service of such military personnel, regardless of their physical condition, can be realized in military positions of military forces that do not require excessive physical influence. It's practically headquarters and security units. It is proposed to exclude the State Border Service and the Ukrainian Security Service from the list of military formations in which the above-mentioned Ukrainian citizens cannot carry out military service. Dear National Deputies! It's practically a technical bill. The law has been in force since 2018. And it is used by military officials from the Ministry of Defense and the National Guard of Ukraine. There are virtually no observations on the principle of this bill from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy and the Committee on Budgets. Therefore, the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading of the bill, accept it as a basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. And from our category of military personnel who are wounded, who have been released and want to return to the service, I want to thank them in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Your Honor, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there a need to discuss? I see there is, yes. Let's write down who wants to sign up, let's go through this procedure: two in, two in, two in. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u120	Please, Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, these changes apply to military officials, as has already been noted, who were injured or ill during the course of their service, resulting in a partial loss of employment. In doing so, they are able to carry out tasks that do not require excessive physical burdens, both for the social security of military personnel who have experienced such health problems during their service and for the preservation of their experience and knowledge that the State has already spent considerable resources. I would like to point out that the bill does not apply to persons who have experienced mental, sensory, psychological, mental, or behavioral disorders but only to those who are able to perform their duties without significant physical burdens. The list of positions that such individuals may have to hold identifies the heads of the respective authorities. The bill received positive conclusions from GNEU and the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and accept the project as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Paul Susko, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u123	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! May I have your attention, please? To your attention, an important bill aimed at the social protection of members of the State Border Service and the Ukrainian Security Service, who carry out military service. A similar norm is already in force and is being distributed to the U.S. Department of Defense officers, the National Guard of Ukraine, and we should not divide the military personnel according to the ranks of the troops. Having received minor defects, a category of military personnel should know and understand that the State and its military authorities are concerned about him, do not neglect him, leave him in line as a military officer with military experience, is patriotic and ready to continue carrying out his military duties and to convey his fighting spirit to a new generation. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Zabrodsky National Deputy, European Solidarity Party. Mikhail Zabrodsky, please. Suit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I'm very surprised at the fact that the bill needs any discussion. You know that military conflict in general, and military conflict in the eastern part of our state, is such, including, and an incentive thing that improves certain things in the state's legislation, particularly. And for almost two years now, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been operating such an effective mechanism, which has been introduced by the previous Supreme Council, regarding the fact that military personnel who have been disabled, or any flaw in the course of military service, or in the course of service, could continue their service. To date, there are some 60 positions in the Armed Forces of Ukraine that provide for the service of this category of military personnel, and there are about 500 military units, facilities, and facilities that can serve the service of military personnel in the category. We all know that life is full of unexpected things, and we all know how difficult it is to be on board, or to be artificially removed from the matter that he has dedicated his whole life or much of it. I repeat, this mechanism is quite effective in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and allows us to keep active and maintain, in military terms, those professionals who want to continue their service by health and by their own will. And you know what a person can do first and most effectively in the matter in which he used to do it. In some ways, as a result of imperfection, the State Border Service and the Ukrainian Security Service remained out of this process all this time. In two of these vitalities, the likelihood of loss of life and health is no less than that of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I propose and encourage support for a bill that eliminates this part of social injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u128	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the "For the Future" party does not consider the bill to be of a technical nature. We are convinced that this bill is a tribute and respect for those military personnel who are not fit for military health services today because of the injuries they have sustained in the war zone to protect our Fatherland. And that's why we think that the entire room today, all the factions, the MPs should support this bill, which allows it to be able to implement combat experience and morale and motivation for the military service of our military personnel. The parliamentary group of the Party for the Future votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Aresonkov, I see. Who else? Now we move on to the vote on the motive of Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the "Trust" MP has always been extremely serious and responsible for issues related to social protection, both in general citizens and in separate categories. In this case, it is the soldiers of those who have been released as a result of either occupational illness or injury, injury, and so forth, but have experience, and the desire to devote themselves to the service of a home country in certain law enforcement agencies. That's why we're going to support this bill, and the Trust MP group is calling for everyone to vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u132	Thank you. Prepare to vote. Invite people's deputies. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, the question is now. The committee recommends acceptance as a basis, then as a whole. Is there no objection? It's okay. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of Ukraine, on the improvement of individual issues of the conduct of Ukrainian citizens of military service (registration No. 2593). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:03:30]] For 310 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal for adoption in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, of a bill amending the Ukrainian Military Duty and Military Service Act to improve the individual issues of the conduct of citizens of the Ukrainian military service. Please support and vote. [[13:04:06]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Anti-Nuclear Action in Ukraine. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:41]] For 244 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Vereshuk Irina Andriyovni. Give me four minutes: she's both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Discrimination Act (registration number 2618). Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? Thank you. Today, Ukraine is one of the world’s most replaced countries. According to earlier estimates from the beginning of Russian aggression, the total area of the replaced areas is about 7,000 square miles [7,000 sq km] in the controlled area and some fourteen thousand square miles [14 sq km] in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetské, Lugansk, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. For comparison, Montenegro has an area of about 14,000 square miles [14,000 sq km]. These facts affect the lives of some two million people in the east, endangering civilian infrastructure. About two and a half thousand people were injured, and 977, a thousand 528 were injured. In almost a year’s time, 101 people, 27 of whom were affected by the Ukrainian Mine Action and Explosive Remnants Act. International experience and prior assessment of the existing state of affairs set aside 300 years and 150 billion dollars and more to exchange our territories. Thus, there can be no doubt about the urgency and urgency of making changes to existing legislation. The main objective of making changes to the current law is to create an acceptable environment for an effective system of anti-discrimination activities with simplified vertical governance and coordination in this area and, particularly, without the need to spend additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine through the creation of a centre of anti-discrimination activities on existing funds of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, as well as the creation of a centre of humanitarian de-mining on existing funds of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the incorporation of a law on the creation of a new central executive body, as well as the exclusion of provisions on the establishment of new organs with powers that are owned by central executive authorities. The Committee on Security, Defence and Intelligence reviewed on February 14th of this year draft laws of Ukraine amending anti-activities (No. 2618), submitted by National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimenek Igor Leonidovic, and other national deputies, and an alternative bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Activities Act (No. 2618-1), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Lubinz Dmitr Valeriyovich. It is worth noting that the Ministry of Defence fully supports the adoption of the bill without notice. The Ministry of Internal Affairs does not support the draft law. The Ministry of Finance does not object to further deliberation of the bill, provided it is redrafted to take into account the comments made. The proposal is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of the adoption of the draft Act amending the Act on Anti-Nuclear Action, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Herasimenek Igor Leonidovich and other national deputies, and to reject the alternative project. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u134	Thank you. The report is given to Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich on an alternative bill, registration number 2618-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u135	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I have now heard arguments about the adoption of the bill. We heard all of this in 2018 when we voted in favour of the bill. Mrs. Irina, first of all, I'm addressing you. What's the difference between the bill you supported on the committee with the bill I'm proposing? First of all, in 2018, the law was passed and it created a single anti-discrimination body. He didn't work because he's in contravention of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. What am I proposing? Not to create a new body, because it's all a cause of concern to us and the opposite of additional financial costs from the state budget. And just putting this function on the State Commission for Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations. She already is. It exists. She has funding. She also has experts. And it can do that control. Next. How does my bill differ in principle from yours? You want to put the Ministry of Defense in complete opposition, forgetting that the Ministry of Defense cannot control humanitarian anti-discrimination. To this end, two centres are created: the centre of anti-mandatory operations and the centre of humanitarian exchange. It's a practice that's all over the world. So I urge everyone, if you're not prepared to support my alternate bill, vote and send both bills for further elaboration, as required by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, to return to the committee and find compromise there again. When you've done this, it won't do its job in 2018 and your bill in 2018, if you still vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Sign up, two to go, two to go, factions to go. Sit down, Irina Andriyevna. No, no, no. All of it! You said it all. Nesterenko Kirilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Igor Gerasimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u138	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm talking to all of us. Look what we're dealing with right now. The seventh year is the war on Donbassa. Today we have a very serious pollution of mine-explosion objects throughout the territory of Donbas. I will no longer speak for the Azov and Black Sea waters. To this day, Bill 2618 is proposing. Yes, indeed, to create a national anti-discrimination body, a collegiate body under the direction of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, and two centres: one centre of anti-mining, another centre of humanitarian exchange, which will be active to exchange our territory. Compared with the Great Homeland War and World War II, we have the result: to this day the polluted territories are not only in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Bill 2618. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u139	Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, actually, it's not just a bill that's being considered. Consider how to save Ukrainian land. Because 329 citizens of Ukraine, civilians, were either killed or injured completely innocently, innocent of the mines or other explosive devices that are in our land, in our own land with you. What are professionals for? For one thing, give both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defense a professional exchange, that is to say, to save Ukrainian land. And the second. Give me a chance, and this is a direct call from the Fatherland faction to the National Security and Defence Committee. Dear colleagues, you have to anticipate the removal of mined, mined and ammunition and their disposal. An expert military officer will always tell you, yes, we are. And then what? Where to? This is our land with you. So we need to, colleagues, move on to the second question: the disposal of mines and other explosive devices. Yeah, it's expensive, but it's our home land, and we don't have to save money on it. We support as a faction that the Ministry of Defense will certify, maintain operators and control their activities. And humanitarian exchanges are certainly to be given to the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the same powers and responsibilities. Last one. International aid is more necessary here than ever. And from this rostrum, we are all grateful to the OSCE and other international partners for their support for the exchange in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u141	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u142	I'd like to give it to Costence Roman. Costenko, Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u143	Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction will be kept in the first reading of bill 2618 because the text suggests that the bill does not provide for very transparent mechanisms for the distribution of funds. And in view of the negative findings of GNEU and the negative conclusions of the anticorruption committee under this law, we do not support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u145	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u146	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP cannot support this bill without redrafting it into the agenda. The relevant amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities should be made in order to reconcile these legislative acts with the non-admission of the commission of public authorities. We insist on the designation of an authorized national authority on the issue of antitrust as a special interministerial coordinating body on antitrust issues. There is also a need to distinguish between the powers of the newly created organs — the centre of anti-discrimination and the centre of humanitarian demining. In general, a more specific definition of the details and delimitation of the powers and responsibilities of authorities carrying out counterproductive activities is needed. Dear colleagues, if someone wasn't in Lugansk or Donecina and wasn't talking to people, I'm explaining. I've seen, and every time I'm in Lugansk, I hear and feel the suffering of people. Our international partners audited: 1,900 people died during this war. Six years of war, 60 years of exchange. How much can you do? One year we're taking the law, the other year, the third year. Bring in these normal regulations and we'll vote. People live in a minefield. Right, Valentine Navejchenko said that today it is our land, that she should be saved as a child, as a woman, as a family. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, now two more speeches of motive. Three speeches of motive. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u148	Dear fellows, the time has come when you've had enough talk. Well, you don't have to talk anymore, you have to start trading. Because we've been hearing for six years, that's not right, that's not right. Actually, I'm surprised Mr. Shahov doesn't support these bills. Because we can work on the second reading, but we need to act today. We can't talk about this anymore. Because, of course, they are imperfect. But if we unite the hall and unite all our efforts, we will be able to work on them. It is no secret that today, 220,000 children living on Donbassa are threatened with mines and ammunition that have not yet broken up. But since the beginning of the East conflict, UNICEF has reported at least 38 children have been killed by mines or ammunition. At least 128 are injured. Because these decisions need to be made urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u149	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u150	Colleagues, we all agree here that we need to start the exchange. The law was passed in 2018 the same way you now want to vote. One organ that doesn't work or work. My alternate bill allows nothing to be created, there is already this commission and it will be responsible. There will be no Ministry of Defense, and it cannot coordinate humanitarian exchange. This is clearly prescribed in your law. You'll write again, vote for not working. So if you want the exchange to really start, vote for my alternate bill, which already allows the function to be placed on an active body in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's gonna be real quick. Thank you. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, as co-author of the law, which has been in operation since the 18th year, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it worked with our international partners. We took the experience of Croatia, the experience of other countries, who, unfortunately, also faced this key humanitarian problem. And really now, in order to step up and activate the exchange on Donbassa, that remains a key humanitarian problem. Laws should not be improved as a requirement for executive authority to start working under the laws in force. It is good that the session hall unites around the awareness of the importance of Donbas’s humanitarian issues, as well as the subject of mine clearance. But the truth is that the bills that are being proposed today are lobbying. They will not help to promote the subject of exchange. And, indeed, they will not match European practices. Because the Ministry of Defense has nowhere to control humanitarian demining. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u153	Thank you. And in conclusion, Deputy Minister Polishchuk Alexander Mikolayovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u154	Thank you, sir! Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Defence has been working on bills and the main 2618 and alternative 2618-1. And as a result, he's asking for the support of Bill 2618, introduced by Deputy Igor Herasimenk. Our position is that the adoption of this bill will allow the first day after its adoption to work fully and in accordance with international standards the entire system of national anti-discrimination activities. So today, and I'm here to support Irina Heratschenko, who said that this bill is best suited and developed in accordance with international standards. During their vote, the Ministry of Defense carried out a number of necessary tasks. It's adopted a national standard. Today, more than a thousand experts are working in our system. And what I'm saying is that it's the humanitarian exchange that happens after the war is over. And today we're actually doing the exchange in those areas. Moreover, to deal with the consequences, we are supported by four headquarters that provide relief to the victims. On the basis of open military hospitals, as well as district hospitals. We provide coverage for all five lines of antitrust activity, as provided for by international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Action Act (Registration No. 2618). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:24:54]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Labour Migrants Protection Act and the fight against fraud in foreign employment (registration number 2365 and 2365-1 alternative). It is suggested that this issue be dealt with by a reduced procedure, and I ask you to support and vote. [[13:25:31]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given by the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights of Trelyakov Galina Mikolayivna for four minutes both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u156	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! As of February 2020, 38 percent of Ukrainians think about the idea of labour migration, between 16 and 20 years of age, 61 percent think, from 30 to 39 years of age, 52.45 percent say that they have to do so to meet the minimum needs of their families. The total amount of migration, the labour force from Ukraine, is 4 million, with some 2.6-2.7 million people abroad being both conservative and conservative. However, the total number will be higher because many people spend only part of the year abroad on temporary or seasonal jobs. Ukraine is one of the world’s ten countries of origin for international migrants. Why do 16 percent of the working population choose employment in other countries? The most influential factor is the economy, Ukrainians are looking for higher and higher wages, migration flows are mostly circular or short-term, most migrant workers are working abroad and want to return to Ukraine. There's a positive trend, labour migration has a positive impact on money transfers that increased from $7 billion in 2015 to $10 billion in 18th and $12 billion in 19th. Labour migration has also contributed to the recovery of real wages in Ukraine through labour supply channels and domestic demand for labour. The main problems that are there are fraud in the labor market. Many cheaters for 300, 600 euros take money from people and do not always employ them. The fact that the licensing system is not working very well and efficiently also says that out of 1 million 700,000 jobs at the moment, for example, only 12,000 400 people are employed in Poland, all of them employed in an illegal way. How can we overcome fraud in this market? Bill 2365 introduces a global approach to employment. He declares that only the employer will pay the money for the employment, the Ukrainian will not take the money for it, the middleman who will take the money from the Ukrainians will pay the high fines. Bill 2365 also proposes to amend the ineffective licensing procedure for so-called, message licensing, since licensing is subject to any legal person who proposes to employ a Ukrainian. Bill 2365 is an example of the community’s community and the MP’s corps, it has a social significance and does not have a political basis. At the moment, the Ukrainian state cannot stop citizens from travelling abroad to work. But we must protect our citizens as much as possible so that they feel that Ukraine supports them wherever they are. Here is a representative of the Ministry of Economic Development, who is currently in charge of labour relations, including labour migrants. They can provide additional information for the national MPs. The committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u157	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy of the Royal Natalia Juryevna to present an alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, well, almost a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister stood here and promised us to create 500,000 jobs and employ those people who returned from abroad to our country. What do we see today? What instead of the 500,000 uncreated jobs that we are offered? Today, we are offered to cancel the licensing of mediation services. What does that mean? This will result in an equivalent removal of virtually all barriers to human trafficking. Therefore, dear fellows, we address you. Well, maybe that's enough? Well, you offered to sell the land first. Several bills offer to sell strategic businesses. This bill, it will fully support human trafficking. Well, you can't do that. The country must create all the conditions to protect its citizens in order to regulate issues to support a person if he finds himself in difficult circumstances. Well, you and I are very well aware that this is a purely lobbying bill and in the situation where our country today, when we have a shocking scale of labour migration, we need to unite all our efforts to guarantee and give our migrants every opportunity to defend themselves from their country, to warn them before the swindlers sell them and rent them, and not today to make all the conditions for a person to leave our country as soon as possible, and so that the swindlers can then use them in their "cheese" and "black" schemes. That's why the Opposition Platform for Life asks you to vote in favour of Bill 2365-1, which reinforces control and protects our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u159	Thank you. Write two in favour, two in opposition to acts by MPs and groups. Žmerenecki Alexy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u160	Good afternoon. I'd like to draw attention to the position of Kruing's companies on this bill. In general, the idea is supported. Deregulation of the market is always conducive to business. But I still want to clarify the following. When the bill was being drafted, it would be a good idea to bring sailors to another, a separate category. Taking into account the Migrant Workers Convention No. 97, which contains the term migrant worker, this convention does not include seafarers. Thus, in the sense of the convention, sailors are not part of the category of migrant workers, which should be taken into account in the drafting of the law. And I would also like to introduce the notion of a self-regulatory organization that would issue permits, certificates of activity, employment of sailors. And this position is supported by all the Kruing companies and the All-Ukrainian Association of Cruing Companies. Please pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u161	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u162	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman! Honorable Presidium, National MPs, drafters of the bill! Dear Ukrainians! In fact, the task of authority is to do everything in order for Ukrainian citizens to live, work and give birth to children here inside. But if that is not the case, then, indeed, the Supreme Council must prepare and adopt those bills that will protect the rights of citizens outside the territory of Ukraine. It is estimated that between 5 and 8 million Ukrainians are now looking for a better life in the world and supporting their families, counting more than $12 billion here in Ukraine just last year, according to official estimates of the National Bank. And it's people that can't be called hardworking, they're here and they're the biggest investors in the economy of Ukraine. When we say we need protection through employment, we definitely do. Because according to a study by the International Organization for Migration, which conducted a survey among 5 Eastern European states, Ukrainians are the most vulnerable to slavery, discrimination. The bill requires support in the first reading and further development in order to become a comprehensive document that will protect Ukrainian citizens. It is necessary that the state not only protects people who earn money for their families and for the economy of Ukraine through consular offices abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u164	Surrender the word of Natalia to Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u165	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we have two ways now. The first path is to deregulation, and the Opposition Platform for Life will always support deregulation. But where is the deregulation? Where conditions will be created for the ease of doing business, for the creation of new jobs, and for all that will be associated with our country. But what do you suggest? You are now proposing such a deregulation regarding the licensing of people going abroad. What will this lead to? This will lead to complete uncontrolledness. And I want to give you figures that, according to the University of Minnesota, from September 12th to December 19th, the official status of the people who were affected by trafficking in human beings in Ukraine was 978. And every year, I repeat, there are hundreds of such cases. And that's why today we think that we should, on the contrary, strengthen the responsibility of the state, control of the state, not allow fraud today to kidnap our people by seducing them abroad for employment and then exploiting people. Therefore, fellow believers today should not promote labour and sexual exploitation abroad but rather combine efforts and consider issues that will solve problems within our country. And you and I, by adopting such a law of deregulation and by creating all the conditions for people to leave and leave our country as soon as possible, will violate the rights of these people and violate our international obligations. So we're proposing or sending this bill for further development and very carefully processing, or supporting 2365-1 and already based on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, from European Solidarity, the People's Deputy of Princely Mikola. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what are these two bills about? Obviously, one proposes to maximize the employment of Ukrainians abroad and the other to regulate. When we're talking about liberalisation, obviously we also need to understand about certain dangers that it's still leading, because it's a responsibility for people's lives. First, business entities had to be licensed earlier to provide these services. This bill contributes to the work of such enterprises, about 1,000 400 in Ukraine, they should not be licensed. Where is the danger? The danger is that licensing is forbidden to enterprises that have beneficiaries, for example, in an aggressor country. In this case, we're lowering the limit. Unfortunately, the bill, from our point of view, should provide for the responsibility of requiring citizens to receive funds as any compensation and expense that will be incurred in connection with the provision of services in employment abroad, as fraudsters may require the payment of not only their remuneration for services but also, for example, as compensation for their expenses. You know, paying for a job has a company that wants our people and it's forbidden to take money from our people. But punishment, apart from easy administrative punishment, does not really exist. So we suggest that we consider establishing a liability for citizens to pay for employment abroad, and this will be a deterrent for citizens. In our view, this law would have to be further developed and incorporated into it by the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u170	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will certainly support our Ukrainians who have gone abroad today. But what I want to say is this. Please tell us, by what time will Ukraine seem to trade and engage in slavery outside our borders? Why are jobs not created today? Why did not all the destroyed businesses that had been adopted in 28 years be audited? Why is it that the mining sector is not being audited today? Why aren't all the businesses being audited today, there's Lissuda in Luhansk? Or "ROTH," which we've talked about over and over again, is completely destroyed. "Michael." All businesses that are now in danger to humans. So in this situation, we support this bill, we support our Ukrainians, but we demand that the authorities immediately review all the businesses that are in decline today. And give jobs to our Ukrainians to make money for Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, take your seats and prepare for the vote. And while I'm giving Sviridenko Julia's Anatolian Deputy Minister of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u172	Thank you. Good afternoon! The Ministry of Economics supports Bill 2365 in its first reading under the conditions of further elaboration of the comments made on the method and form of submission of declarations and the rights and obligations of the operators who provide such services. Galina Mikhailovna, if we work together, we support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote? I put to the vote the draft Law on the Protection of Migrant Workers and the Fight against Fraud in Employment Abroad (registration number 2365). Ready to vote? You're ready, aren't you? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:42:28]] For 248 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. The next bill is Bill 3014, draft Law on Electronic Communications. Deputy Head of the Digital Transformation Committee Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich is invited to speak. Please, Alexander Pavlovich. Can I ask you again? Oh, I'm sorry. I'll bet you a shorter procedure. Dear colleagues, please prepare. Review of the simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:43:44]] For 212 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u174	The report is given by Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u175	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'll introduce you to the draft Ukrainian Electronic Communications Act (No. 3014). The initiators of the bill: Alexander Fedienko and Mikhailo Kryczko and other national deputies. The Telecommunications Act in force today was adopted in the distant year 2003 and is morally outdated. The adoption of the new branch law has matured long ago. Europe has been modernizing its legislation for the fifth time since then. The electronic communication bill should establish a legal basis for digitization in modern conditions using modern technology. The bill lays down the legal basis for activities in the fields of electronic communications and radio spectrum and establishes the powers of the State to manage and regulate activities in the field of electronic communications, as well as the rights, duties and principles of responsibility of natural and legal persons involved in the activity or in the use of electronic communications services. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications will enable the establishment of the principles of public administration and regulation in the field of electronic communications that meet the requirements of time and Euro-Integration processes, creating conditions for free entry into the electronic communications market, removing existing barriers, will ensure the provision of quality consumer telecommunications throughout the territory. We need to set new rules to help develop the market and new technologies. It is not possible to construct a digital country using a morally outdated legislative base. The bill is the result of months of work by the working group, which included experts, industry representatives, the public. At the same time, the committee received a number of comments. Taking into account the comments received, the Digital Transformation Committee, at its meeting, identified specific provisions of the bill that need to be elaborated. I'll read them under the transcript. First. Exclusion of articles 7 and 8 of the bill, which define the status and authority of the regulator. The other one. Exclusion from the text of the bill of rules on the provision of targeted targeted social assistance for universal service. Third. To clarify the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of universal services and to supplement the bill with rules on the procedure for monitoring the use of funds for compensation to providers of electronic communications services for damages determined in accordance with legislation imposed by the obligation to deploy electronic communications networks to provide universal services at the expense of the public budget. Friends, I propose to support the Committee's recommendations on digital transformation and to adopt the bill as a basis and to join in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Sign up. Two for, two against, factions. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" will be in the first reading supporting this bill, but we have significant remarks about the second reading. In particular, first of all, the definition of spam is very mixed. And in the formulation that it exists in the first reading, it might be that if anyone sent an e-mail or a message to a number of subscribers who didn't expect it, 5-6, it wasn't defined, then an admin codex and a fine of 100-200 untaxed minimums could be applied against a person. However, the basis of this bill is its base, it is absolutely normal and necessary. And you can prepare for the second reading of it and you need it. I hope the committee will work well on this. The only thing I want to do right now is mark it separately. At this point in time, the need for this bill is confirmed by the fact that there is now one scandal in the electronic key system, particularly the limited liability society Key Systems, as far as I'm concerned, is now effectively denied the right to provide services. And now a lot of accountants in particular, they're in a situation where when they have to report quarterly, they can't use the keys they have. I see in a situation that is now, I've been getting a number of comments right now from the department of profile that haven't satisfied me fully. There is reason to believe that there may be a question of unfair competition. And I'm very much asking the Ministry of Profiles and the Minister to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u178	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u179	Honourable National MPs, citizens of Ukraine, are the bill that contains major flaws and these defects are directed against Ukrainian citizens, against Internet users. That, to our belief, the factions of the Fatherland are unacceptable in this bill. First, quasi-police authorities monitor electronic communications once. Two are the absence of a transparent system of access to the radio frequency to which the drafters want to direct the bill's attention. The third is essentially a censorship that can arise if created, so-called, a national commission with the powers prescribed by the drafters. That's a fourth. Dear friends, everyone has seen the experience of Estonia. You all speak English, I hope, and you can read what e-Estonia is. See how their frequency is available. As Estonia made electronic communications available. As this is done free of charge for citizens, for citizens of their country. That's why the "Fatherland" faction demands that this bill provide guarantees of non-censorship -- once. The absence of payment for additional resources and additional services to be imposed are two. And thirdly, we are advocating that there be extremely simplified access to all frequencies and resources for Ukrainian citizens, for Ukrainian businessmen. Finally, it was not an official body but an electronic portal for access to such services from the State of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u180	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Osadchuku Andrija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u182	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! I, some people here know, have worked for 11 years as one of the largest communications operators. It's the biggest. We served 25 million subscribers. And that's why I'm thinking a little bit about it. This is the sixth - year law that has been tried to be adopted. It is, in fact, important. But there are constant details that cannot be overridden. And they're still trying to include them in the law, and they're ruining the idea at all. Let me remind you that the last 20 years of Ukrainian telecom is the fight for radio frequency. And this fight can be divided into two groups of companies. One group of companies received resources and built huge and successful businesses. We know them, we all use mobile phones. Another group of companies is pretty big, so-called, no name companies. You don't know them. No one knows them. But they just hold the radio frequency. Because they know it's very, very expensive all over the world. Sometimes operators in Europe and Asia and around paid billions of dollars and euros for frequencies. And there's been a desire to make some money on it for 15 years. And the entire frequency resource for today in Ukraine is distributed, including a 5G radio frequency resource. The government program says we want to develop 5G. Especially given that the government wants to support small companies. But it's these small companies that keep this frequency resource, without having any money for its development. But this bill, which is proposed to us for the first time in 20 years, gives us the opportunity to directly resell acts of radio frequency from operator to operator in the middle of the state budget. We can be told about better European practices. But it's actually an attempt to rob Ukraine's state budget for billions of dollars. So in this version of this bill, which is actually important, but you can't vote out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u184	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u186	Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u187	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to dispel a few myths. In fact, not all of us speak English. And since we are implementing European legislation, let us look at specific documents. First of all, the Main Committee has already pointed out that this bill is developing the basic framework that we have heard about today, namely, electricity or, as we have always said to you, telecommunications -- it is considered an old word. And the second stage, the second pillar, is the bill on the regulator, which is what they said from the rostrum. Second moment, my friends, we're adopting, I hope, a great bill. Why is it historic? It's digital. Guys, there's no time to wait. We're not just talking about telecommunications, we're talking about a company in one click, we're talking about investment, we're talking about two freedoms in the future: moving human capital and capital, like money. Let's think about the perspective, this is a framework law, first reading, let's not delay, take on political responsibility, along with our European partners, to make the changes that have been said today, and not to speak, not to harass this bill as being lobbyist. I'm sure lobbyism should be national interests, the digital market should be. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u188	All those who wish to speak? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u189	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, when it comes to lobbying laws, look at the entire agenda in one session, in the other, in the third. Today, it is important not to destroy, but to build, help small, medium - size businesses. When it comes to frequencies, they were sold for billions of dollars before that. And it's been said on more than one occasion from this rostrum that you're looking for, and today you have to cheat small and medium-sized businesses, you don't have to peel ten skins out of people today who want to fill our nation's budget. Thank you. The Trust MPs will not support this bill. Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u190	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on a proposal for adoption based on the Committee's proposals for a draft Law on Electronic Communications (registration number 3014) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:58:02]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Cloud Services Act (registration number 2655). A word for the report. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:58:37]] For 232 Decision taken. The report is given by Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee, and please include four minutes from both the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u191	Thank you, my friends, for supporting the bill on electronic communications, for bringing us closer to Europe. I present you with the draft Law on Cloud Services (number 2655). The initiators are Alexander Fedienko, Mikhailo Kryczko, and other deputies. Friends, we are all cloud users: iCloude, Google, Microsoft, Facebook. The Cloud Services Bill defines the rules of the game between government executives, local authorities, state enterprises, and cloud service providers. This project is part of a major work on reforming the legislative framework for the development of digital services and regulating all aspects of their use, The bill received a number of comments. Taking into account the comments, the Digital Transformation Committee, at its meeting, acknowledged the individual provisions of the bill that need to be finalized. I will read them under the transcript, namely: first, to complete part three of article 10 of draft paragraphs 17 and 18 as follows: "The law of Ukraine applies to the contract, in the event that a dispute arises between the parties to the right treaty is brought before the courts of Ukraine." The second part of article 4 reads as follows: "The specificity of the use of cloud computing technologies and the provision of cloudy and satellite services for national security in the military and armed spheres, including those relating to the provision of cloud services for the defence and jurisdiction of the defence, is decided by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, taking into account the requirements of this law, based on the promotion of national security in the military and defence spheres and the performance of defence tasks, taking into account Ukraine's existing international obligations, the existing international treaties of Ukraine." The third is article 6 of the draft law, which reads as follows: "Article 6 - State regulation of cloud services. The organizational system of government regulation in the field of cloud computing technology and cloud services is: the first, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the second, the authorized authority, which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, which ensures the formation and implementation of policy in the areas of cloud services, the third, the central authority of the executive authority, which ensures the formation and implementation of public policy on the protection of state information resources and information in cyberspace, I apologize for the protection requirement established by law, the cyberprotection of critical information infrastructures, is exercised by State control in these areas. The central authority of the executive branch, which exercises state control and oversight in the field of electronic communications. A body authorized to monitor compliance with personal data protection legislation. Four. Part three of article 8 reads as follows: "For the possibility of using the technology and software of a cloud service provider to process public information resources in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems, such provider shall submit a copy of the documents confirming this possibility, together with a statement issued in the established legislative order." Fifth. Part three of article 9 reads as follows: "The authorized authority shall decide whether to refuse to submit information to the list of cloud service providers in the event of submission not in the full scope of the documents provided for in article 8 of this Act. Identification in the application for inclusion in the list and documents added to it, unreliable information, damage that prevents simultaneous interpretation of content, correction or correspondence." Six. Paragraph 2 of the first article 11 of the draft law should be deleted. Article seven, fourth. Seven. Part four of article 11 of the draft law reads as follows: "It is forbidden to process personal data and information with limited access to public users, whose protection is required by law, using cloud computing and hundreds placed."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Bondar Mikhailo Leondiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u193	Please convey the word of Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u194	Again, I'm sorry. Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, this bill is a framework, and in principle it introduces a system like cloud services, an innovation that is being used by the world's leading countries to preserve and process data. So this is a progressive thing and, of course, as one of the coauthors of this bill, I believe that the first reading of this project must be supported. However, the second reading should take into account that the use of cloud services, in particular certain things that have already been said to be related to the defence of the country, as well as data that may have a direct impact on the state system of Ukraine, in particular the issue of elections and perhaps later in future referendums, must be clarified and severely regulated, because the danger of interference with any electronic systems by cyber and cyberfeds of the Russian Federation still exists. And we need to understand that the direct mutilation of the things that are in the West is not possible for us right now, because so that we don't put at risk the foundations of Ukrainian statehood and the foundations of Ukrainian democracy. This point has to be spoken out, because the bill is basic, framework, so these things have to be noted in it, but in the first reading, I emphasize -- in the first reading, "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u196	Kubbit Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Sergio Stépi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. This bill is not really just about modern technology. It's also primarily about the economy of government funds. To process information by self - control, government authorities and local governments need to periodically increase the number of computing and human resources, and huge costs are spent. Think about it, the total cost of the state-owned IT sector for purchases over the period 2020-2024 will be about a hundred billion dollars. In the event of at least a partial implementation of the cloud technology strategy, the total economy over this period is at least 40 billion dollars. Once again, at least 40 billion dollars will save the state during this time. This bill is just the first part of what needs to be done. In the future, a small piece of business-state work will be needed to jointly produce a whole package of documents that will allow the public sector to buy these services through ProZorro, through purchasing organisations, so this bill must be supported. Please support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u199	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u200	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u201	Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I will speak with a very simple tongue so that not only in the hall but also in the audience can be understood. What are cloud services? This is when your servers are abroad. Now, let's ask you a question. These laws allow state enterprises, organizations, military, even formations to carry their servers abroad. I have a question. Who will protect them? Who's gonna have access to it and everything? Today, cloud services are being used by all private businesses. Let him use it, they're taking all the risks. You're by law increasing the risks of our information security. All the servers of state-owned enterprises, the more military formations, should be in Ukraine, under Ukraine's protection, in the possibility of accessing our law enforcement agencies and checking those servers. Everything else is a risk increase, and you can't let that happen. You want to legalize all of this by this law. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Chernev Yegor Volodymyrovich. No, Cusbitt did. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. They were from the "Serial of the People" faction, distinguished colleagues. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u204	Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, we have just heard that this bill will save our nation 40 billion dollars. I wish that money would go into the development of our industrial base. We really need to support today's IT technology, the new technologies that enter our nation, the investors. The Trust MPs will support this bill and everything that will be applied to our nation's investment. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. As long as the colleagues are meeting. Here's a proposition: on the basis and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Cloud Services Act (Registration No. 2655). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:11:26]] For 280 Decision taken. The next issue of the day’s agenda is the draft Law on the List of Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatization. Please prepare for the vote. We need to vote on the inclusion and application of the ad hoc procedure, the bills (registrations 2831-1, 2831-2). Dear colleagues, do I understand correctly that the Committee's conclusion is to reject both? Then can we not discuss it? Discussing? I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned drafts. Please support and vote. [[14:12:45]] For 227 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session (register No. 2831-1, 2831-2). Please support and vote. [[14:13:17]] For 223 The decision is not taken. We cannot discuss this matter at this meeting. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection and environment of water resources. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:13:56]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Marikovsky Alexander Valeriyovich. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, we all know what is being done on rivers, lakes, and other water objects because of the unscrupulous citizens and officials who use these objects in their own interests. Responsibility for any illegal activity that violates the biological environment, migration, migration, acclimatization and cross-breeding of wild animals is now almost absent. The last time was reviewed was in 2003. The draft Law 2765 was designed to increase liability for poaching, to violate the rules on the use of water bioresources, and to increase the responsibility for violating the requirements for protecting their environment, from poaching, from pollution, from carrying out farmed, unconsented work. We increase the size of fines and we increase the responsibility for violating the rules on the use of water resources, their environment and their conditions of reproduction. This bill clarifies the provisions of the laws of Ukraine on "Animal World", "Agriculture, Industrial Fisheries and the Protection of Water Resources", which will allow higher levels of conservation, including support and participation of the environmental community. It will also allow for additional government and local budgets in the form of fines. The implementation of the bill will enable international commitments, including the implementation of individual provisions of the EU Housing Directive and the International Convention on the Protection of Biological Diversity. So far, we've got comments from both the GNEU and the Department of Profiles, and we're ready to go over this bill for a second reading. So I would like to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Colleagues, let's support this environmental conservation bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u207	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? I can't see. You don't? Can we vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. No, it's not. Or a discussion? No, it's not. on the protection and environment of aquatic biological resources (registration number 2765). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:18:03]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of a national intellectual property authority (second reading). Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee, Podlas Rocksolan Andriyovn, is invited to the rostrum. Who's going to insist on editing? I see an alien. On one. One amendment and we're going to the vote. Don't go away, please. Turn on the alien microphone, please. Please tell me the correct number. In the microphone, you're inconceivable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u208	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u209	An alien microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u210	Amendment number 394. It's relevant. The situation is, we have a state-owned enterprise called Crippet. So far, decisions regarding intellectual property have been made by Mineconomy. But the procedure of expertise is carried out by the State Enterprise Crimson. Some procedures take up to four years. In the law that the authors have initiated, it is partially included. I'm asking her to complement her with the words, "And also the successor of the Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute of the State Enterprise in the ranges defined by the central executive authorities, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policies in the area of intellectual property." This is the second part of "The Final and Transitional Provisions" in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u211	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a 394 vote, it was taken into account by the committee in part. One author insists on taking full account. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. Partly. The offer is not supported. [[14:20:28]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Edit Not Found Dear colleagues. What's the readout? 45th? Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, 45 revisions. And then we vote. Everyone, nobody else wants to?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u212	No, no. I'd like more than one readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u213	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, number 45 has proposed, on the basis of a separate law, that it be possible to reorganize and eliminate this national intellectual property authority. Why? Because of the fact that this body will actually function as a government organization. And so at the legislative level, it would have to be impossible to either reorganize or eliminate this organ in order to avoid abuse. So I'd like to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u215	I'll bet you 45 votes. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:50]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. All right, colleagues? Can we vote? It's adding up one way or another. Or let's go to the table. Because I asked, who will be? And only the alien came forward. How many bars? What's the readout? Microphone. 48?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u216	No. 48. Colleagues. The bill states that "the authority vested in this national intellectual property authority" is still in the text. I suggest you change it. And don't use the word "authorities" or "delegated powers." The point is that the functions of this body are: conducting expertise, entering registers, issuing security documents. And these powers are not in control. And this body will have no function and relationship to subordinate authority. So I'd like to exclude these words as regards "powerful and delegated powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u217	48 lacquers. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u218	The committee recommended a rejection. Because in the bill we divide "authorities of the national intellectual property authority" and "other powers." Because in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities, only powers can be delegated to state institutions. And the general recommendation of Minust in standardizing is to separate "delegated authority" from "authority," so our proposal was not to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u219	I'm betting on a vote of 48 Klimpush-Cincadze, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u220	55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u221	55 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u222	And it's actually partially accounted for, it includes a list of the sources of revenue coming to this National Intellectual Property Authority for exercising authority. And he's actually offering a whole list of what this body can get to provide for its activities, given that it's going to have a wider range of functions compared to Cratel and Mineconomy. In fact, this body is going to be an intellectual property operator and the center of the national innovation system, and we need to offer more non-budgetary revenue to finance this body. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u223	I'm betting on 55 votes, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:30.]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Everything? Alona Ivanovna's starch. What's the readout? Microphone, please turn on Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u224	Colleagues, I've got two briefs. But I ask, first of all, to sit down as a colleague, if I may, so that I can see the reporter. Colleagues of the Servant of the People, please sit down. Thank you. And secondly, colleagues, understand, since all of our committees are almost at the same time, the MP who's filing the petitions can't always defend these rights on another committee. So in fact, because we're working on amendments with scientists, with other lawyers, with professional representatives. For example, in this case, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine, I want to hear the reasons why they were rejected. 62 is the first, and 64 is the first. 62 to the right, colleagues, she's accounted for that I understand, in fact, but I would like to take her into account completely and explain why she's not fully accounted for with what she sounds like. This is actually about the head of this body, who has to be assigned only to the results of the open competition. We have discredited open competitions today, so it's very important to prescribe an independent open procedure in order to restore trust in these assignments in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u225	What's the correcting number, Alona Ivanovna. 62nd? I'm betting on the vote number 62. Please identify and vote. The committee's dismissed. [[14:27:23]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Any other adjustments? In the microphone, please tell me. Schrome, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u226	64 redundancies. My colleagues, first of all, I'm going to ask the reporter to comment on why 62th was rejected and why 64th was rejected, too. 64th, this is an amendment that occurs all over the text. I'll only put it once for confirmation, it's a restriction on the work of loved ones together. And once again, we're creating a new government body and we need to very clearly prescribe appointments based on independent competitive procedures, trust in this body, and with those who will be assigned. And I propose that a normal absolute rule be laid down on the limitations of working together with those who are connected when a loved one is unable to be in a direct frame of mind. So the manager can't be a close person, the person who's in line. This is, first of all, our anti-corruption legislation. And secondly, these are the things that have to be laid down in special legislation, so that, once again, I can say, to put the minimum trust in competitive appointments into the public service. Today, such trust is lacking and competitive appointments are discredited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u227	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. And the position of the committee, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u228	About 62 revisions. It's taken into account, essentially, if you look at the right part of the table, that's actually the language that the manager chooses at an open competition, which is conducted in a manner defined by the central executive authority. The question is, Why is it not fully taken into account? Because you're proposing to create about 10 articles, and we're proposing three articles, two primes. 1, 2 primes. 2 and 2 primes. 3. The committee actually supported this version, which is the question only in norm-design technology. In 64 directions, it is rejected because it is regulated by the Anti-Corruption Act in article 27, which is distributed to officials of the National Intellectual Property Authority and experts, according to experts, article 3 of the Act part two of "a" and "b".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u229	I'm betting on 64 votes, she's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:56]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Are you ready to take the lead? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the creation of a national intellectual property body (registration No. 2255). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:31:05]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 195, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 2, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 15, "Trust" – 1, "non-fractional" – 8. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 9, of the Budget Code for Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3288). Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. It takes 226 votes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:34]] For 249 Decision taken. It is suggested that we consider this issue, apply the ad hoc procedure and consider this issue and make a decision at this plenary session. It also requires 226 votes in favour of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please support and vote. [[2:33:02]] For 245 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and give your head. [[14:33:22]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? I am asking questions on the basis and in general, to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 9, "Towards and transitional positions", of the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify the prior investigation of individual categories of criminal offences" (registration No. 3288). Please support and vote. [[14:34:16]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 9, of the Code of Budget and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3288). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:35:03]] For 340. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the appointment and discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers (registration number 3195). We need to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[14:35:42]] For 273 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[14:36:06]] For 269 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:36:30.]] For 262 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering a bill that concerns our parliamentary function, namely the monitoring function. We are very often dissatisfied with the government’s work. We often ask questions to individual government officials, to individual ministers. But we do not always have the opportunity to ask them these questions. That's why I, along with colleagues from my committee, from other factions, such as the "Serve of the People", the "For the Future", the "Trust" groups, are non-fractional and I, as the initiator of the "Voice" faction, have initiated these changes to the laws already in force on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Rules, so that we don't just push the buttons to listen to the ministers, their reports as they get released at their own request. On February 4th of this year, there was Alona Babak on this rostrum, but there was no question that we could ask her, she wasn't physically present on the committee, and we did a mere technical function. Minister Avakov attended three committee meetings of 32 invitations. 3 out of 32. Our parliamentary function of control has to work, not only in the proper laws, but in practice. That is why we are amending the relevant laws already in force so that ministers can answer to Parliament. In order for ministers to report to Parliament. And thank you once again to colleagues from other factions and groups who are co-authors of this bill. There's no politics here. There's practice here. Parliament has a monitoring function and Parliament has to implement it. The committee proposes that this bill be supported in the first reading and on, if you have any suggestions, we will also consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u231	Thank you. The word for the report is given by the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u232	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Urban Development discussed the draft law at its meeting on April 22. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen parliamentary control over government activities. There is much to be said about this in the hall. Various options are offered. There's a beautiful Law on Interrogation that we're considering on the committee tomorrow. With regard to this law, it corresponds to the Constitution of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, which regulates the appointment and release of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. GNEU, after examining the bill, generally made a positive conclusion. But there are some comments that we suggest to the second reading to be appropriate and further developed. Conclusion of the Committee: To recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the appointment and discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers under registration number 3195 as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. The committee also recommends that the deadlines for the subject’s submission of the legislative initiative for amendments be reduced by half in preparation for the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u233	Ready? Should we vote or should we discuss it? Discussion. Sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Osadchuk Andri Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u234	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u235	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what has been said in the rostrum, I would also like to say that this bill and I, together with colleagues from my committee, who are co-authors of various factions and groups, are also proposing to balance and bring the Rules into line with the current Constitution. When changes are made to the Constitution and then do not conform to the rules of the Rules or other laws, of course, this is a legal collegiate. That's why we approach this law technologically and practically. And this moment is very important to us, too. And the key point is, I want to repeat it again, maybe not everyone has heard, maybe someone's been doing their jobs. We must, as a Parliament, carry out and implement our control function. It is Parliament that is making proposals to the government. It is Parliament that must work to then, whether to vote or not in favour of this government, be able to ask the right questions, be able to present its position accordingly. And when ministers resign at their own request, and then we don't have the opportunity to hear their report, we don't have the ability to hear the results of their work, what they did during their cadence is not passed on to the next minister -- these are the black holes that are formed in the executive branch of power, and these are the black holes that we have to regulate. That's why my colleagues and I initiated the Voice, and we worked on this document with our committee colleagues. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u237	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u238	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In modern society, indeed, the procedure for appointing and releasing members of the Cabinet of Ministers needs to be improved. Therefore, we thank the National Deputies for such a fine initiative, since ministers are required to submit public declarations, as local governments do, as we do with you, and ministers have to submit them before their appointment. Parliament should also be given the opportunity to release individual ministers if they fail to deal with their activities. That's why the Trust MPs support this bill in the first reading. But we're immediately sounding the directions that need to be worked out. First of all, changes in the appointment and release of Kabmin members should be made to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, not to the Supreme Council Rules, as it is now. So today, Mr. Head, when we consider the bill in the first reading. You and I should use Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure. The other one. Before possible release, the minister must report. We need to discuss this procedure with you in order to improve this very report of a minister. And the third. We suggest that we identify all the issues and carry out such a comprehensive reform of the entire government so that we can understand how to appoint and release government officials. I call upon all of us in the Hall to support this bill, to finalize its second reading, and thus to ensure that our ministers work better in Kabmin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u239	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in general, by supporting the idea of our colleagues from the Voice faction and the People's Servant factions who worked on this bill, we see a whole series of disagreements that unfortunately remain here. While sharing the idea of supplementing the Rules with rules that would allow for opposition to participate in the discussion of candidates for government posts or to listen to ministerial reports on their activities in office when they are retired, there are still a number of observations regarding the resolution of mistrust in the bill. Because you realize that this bill doesn't make it easier, but it complicates the procedure for the resignation of ministers that now exists. Although such initiatives for the resignation of ministers in this room often sound. Indeed, as the previous report put it, the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers define a comprehensive list of reasons for the suspension of the powers of members of the government. In accordance with article 8 of the Constitution, the Constitution has the highest legal power, and the laws must be in line with it. At the same time, the bill essentially complements the grounds for the termination of medical leave in the event of the medical conclusion of a medical institution. This does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and there is a great risk that this bill will be declared unconstitutional. Moreover, additional reasons could not be defined in the Law on the Rules, but should, as the previous reporter had said, be included in the Professional Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and, above all, in the Constitution of Ukraine. There are standards of this project that don't match each other. The Rules only mention the word "coalition" once, not to mention "opposition". And this law, evidently having a positive purpose, is not perfect. And some of the norms here duplicate the positions already provided for in other laws and in the Constitution. And that's the idea that's in the head of science and science. Our faction agrees with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u241	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u242	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, our faction at its meeting has decided to refrain from supporting the bill. And I can easily explain why. I think we should stop pretending to be living in a parliamentary-presidential state. The last two Kabinas have been very vividly demonstrated to us, they have demonstrated that we live in a very clean state when the President appointed two unknown Prime Ministers, most of whom no one knows, and they are completely unprofessional. And to this day he and it is he who is responsible for them, not the monotony, nor is there an imaginary coalition, namely the President. And it's no different. I think that if this bill is co-authored by the pro-dominant faction, they should be concerned, as I am with the question, with the disgraceful question of illustration, which has not been annulled today. If we are talking about improving the system of government, nothing has been done to date by authority. And that's what the President promised when he went to the elections, and a lot of the leaders of the failed faction promised that this issue would be reviewed according to European standards, according to European recommendations. Today, both the Venice Commission and many other authoritative European bodies have recommended that Ukraine amend this shameful bill. This bill will not solve anything from the point of view of Parliament's control over active power. It's a turquoise. And we stress once again that we don't have to vote for him. And we call on all our colleagues to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u243	Now there are two speeches of motive, Scrum and Batenko. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. They've already spoken from "Trust." Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u244	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! In fact, we often forget that the first possible function of Parliament is the legislative function. And the second is the control. And this bill, it's just a little tip of the iceberg on how to work together and how to control the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In fact, to make a comprehensive, normal reform, we need to speak honestly about the problems we face. And today we have a broken state administration system. That's true. And you have to admit that. The Cabinet violates our international obligations and does not pass the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Law on Central Executive Authorities, where it was to be regulated in a comprehensive manner. The State Service Bill, which we voted with you five months ago, (2,260), the President does not promise or return to the Hall or sign and violates the Constitution. The bill on the service of local self-government is also unfortunately not voted on by this Parliament. And this bill is just a small part. Colleagues. Unfortunately, we today have a government that needs to be reformed and set up. Because the state is extremely weak. Organs are extremely weak. And Kabmin is very weak. And also, colleagues, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u245	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! The members of our parliamentary group "For the Future" are co-sponsors of this bill. Surely, then, we will support him in our first reading. This is the first time. But at the same time, we understand that this bill needs to be finalized because it has no consensus in the room. Although we agree with the logic that it strengthens the role of Parliament in terms of influence on the formation of the executive branch of power, the Cabinet of Ministers. But it's not just the Kabmin members and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. So obviously we need to work on it. And to foresee a rule that the Prime Minister's candidacy is in agreement with the MP factions and groups. This candidature shall be considered on the committee concerned. And meet these standards with the Constitution of Ukraine. Because not all regulatory rules are met in part of the appointment and release of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If we don't, it's obvious that we're going to have a problem with how these principles work. We're voting in the first "yes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u247	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the order of appointment and discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers (Registration No. 3195). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:03]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has made a proposal for a cut in time. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3195). Please support and vote. [[14:52:41]] For 254 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part one of article 6, part one of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are reported to form part of the political faction of the "Serve of the People" political party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call of the People's Deputy Maslov. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have three questions, this is a draft regulation on non-stopping the operation of veterans' hospitals during the second phase of medical reform, wait one minute, ratification 0039 and bill 2234, he's going to work. There is a proposal to vote on all these three issues without discussion. Dear colleagues, we need to apply the ad hoc procedure for the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on Decree 3235, and we need 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please support and vote. [[14:54:13]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to accept as a basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision to prevent the operation of war veterans during the second phase of medical reform (registration number 3235). Please support and vote. [[14:54:51]] For 327 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on general conditions and procedures, organisational arrangements and financial conditions for the implementation of the Danish Business Finance programme in Ukraine. I can't hear you. So I'm saying that there's an offer to look at these issues, we're not going to make it. It's either way. These are questions that do not need to be discussed. We've got four minutes left with you. Registration number 0035. Excuse me, 0039. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the general conditions and procedures for the organisation of measures and financial conditions for the implementation of the programme in Ukraine (registration No. 0039). Please support and vote 0039. [[14:56:36]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is 2234, about directing the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of responsibility for the formation of a pricing system in the construction of public roads (Registration No. 2234). Please support and vote. [[14:57:30.]] For 305 Decision taken. I take it, 2064 -- can we do it without discussion? It won't. I'm betting on the head. Let's vote, okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the development of grapes in Ukraine (registration number 2064). Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:58:18]] For 295 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-16-m0.u248	Who? In general, no, the committee's decision is based. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
