ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! It's good to see everyone. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I'm going to finish the speech now, and I'm going to wear it, Mikhailo Borisovich. Ilja Volodymyrovich, you're even heard. If you don't mind, a little quieter. Are you ready to register? I remember, Sergey Volodymyrovich, now I will definitely remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button or the first button on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [["10:13:08"]] There are 242 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we have two nouns, our colleagues Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich and Alexander Stanislavovich Pasicý. [[Applause]] From all over the room, I wish you success, strength, achievement, victory, and always moving forward. Once again with the holiday. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, you remember how we all jointly made a decision last week to protect people from the coronavirus. You remember that the entire hall was then joined together, and we gave the government a full algorithm of action so that the epidemic could really be stopped. There were no populist things, there were clear absolute counsel. First. To the President of Ukraine, create and head the National Command against biological threats. Without it, the country just can't stand it. There were free medications for hospital patients and outpatients, free testing, mobile groups that had to take tests at home instead of sick people going to laboratories and hospitals. There was everything that people needed to have access to the station, to expand the bed fund. There was a decision on how to find additional laboratories and how to spend 48 hours on tests. It was all there. But, dear friends, you can't help but notice that people have been and are left without help, that people near hospitals who are overcrowded can't breathe, but they come to the hospital alone and can't go to the hospital, go home, maybe even die. People who want to take tests in the deep end today can't do it at any cost. We have a complete collapse in the human defense system against the coronavirus. And so our faction demands that we immediately invite the entire government to the Supreme Council in its entirety and allow the Prime Minister to report on what has been done in accordance with our decision. And not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but today! And I want that question put to the vote. The other one. You've all gone to the Supreme Council, you've seen what's happening to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, you've all seen what's happening to Eurosil, but think about what we're losing hundreds of thousands of jobs -- hundreds of thousands. You realize that other countries are helping their businesses with trillions of dollars to keep them from disappearing during the coronavirus, and we're choking our last. And that's why we're offering: right now we're looking at 3,853-2 for the FOPs and 3,704 for Eurosili. And more than that, accept it in the first and final reading, and stop mistreating small entrepreneurs during the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u3	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u4	The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has a group of people working in the interests of the aggressor country. These are not our words, these are the words of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. In fact, the goal of these people is to destroy the constitutional system. And that's perfectly clear because by destroying anti-corruption infrastructure, as it has already begun, by canceling the ability of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to issue internal orders, and thus returning to the Colombian Private Bank, by stealing a state budget of $5.5 billion, i.e. by stealing one moment from every Ukrainian citizen about 4,000, this group will cause exactly the opposition, exactly what the President has been stressing yesterday: bloodshed, resistance on the streets. Do we need to resist such, even I do not say, slow but real power? Absolutely, yes. But in order not to provoke illegality, we must act in the most legal way possible. It is Russia and the oligarchs who demand that the legislature of the Supreme Council go beyond its authority and support, I say, the emotional desire of individuals in the state to actually destroy the constitutional composition, particularly, and to resign the entire composition of the Constitutional Court. Not just the ones that prove they're Russian agents, but all of them. We have to act as an example of work, within the framework of the law. Therefore, our demand, and I am very grateful to the representatives of all political factions, is to create conditions in which the Constitutional Court can make decisions only by consensus by raising a quorum in the Constitutional Court from 12 to 17 persons. Such a bill has already been registered. I am grateful to the speaker of the Supreme Council who found the mechanism for restoring authority to the National Anti-Corruption Agency. I emphasize, first we raise the quorum in the Constitutional Court, we force them to work within the Constitution, but legally. Next, we're correcting our position on anti-corruption infrastructure and moving together further in our Euro-integration direction. We need to protect the constitutional system. And I am convinced that the Supreme Council together will be able to resist any desire, particularly the President, to go beyond these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u5	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future. Igor's wand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like to start with what's going on in the country today. For a week now, there has been a hysteric about what the Constitutional Court has done. What was the right of national deputies to go to the Constitutional Court in general and ask, and the law of the Constitution does not answer, and it is correctly accepted or misinterpreted? This has been the case since Ukraine’s independence: any national MP independent of the party, the faction, may have appealed to the Constitutional Court for clarification. What did the Constitutional Court do? It's the same thing as exactly a year and a half ago, when I said yes, the term elections to the Supreme Council are constitutional, order or order of dissolution. At the time, everyone liked it, and today he did not like it because he allowed himself to say that the law had been adopted illegally. When this bill was adopted a year ago, we in the Supreme Council said, "Friends, it's an unconstitutional law, it's written in the President's Office, written on the knee, written quickly, let's work it out and let it work." Is an anticorruption system needed in Ukraine? Yes. Should We Fight Corruption? Yes. Do NAZK declarations need to be made? Need it, Naboo. But they have to comply with the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine. If someone, independent of who it is, or any faction that has never done anything and paid no taxes in their lives, and their leader has fled because he is ashamed, or even the President of Ukraine allows himself to say that the Constitution can be bribed and trampled, these people have no right to be called deputies or presidents. The Constitution is what holds Ukraine today, it's our Basic Law. Someone doesn't like the Constitution -- let's change it in a civilized way. Someone doesn't like the laws that have been passed, because the Constitutional Court has declared them illegal -- let's change. What happened? Why make illegal decisions about the dissolution of the Constitutional Court? Why now, even I respect Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, but the bill he proposes is also unconstitutional, we have no right to do so. Let's quickly, in a week, together, in three weeks, write a normal and legitimate constitutional bill. We're going to return all NAMK's powers, return the declaration, return whatever it takes to fight corruption in the country, but legally. If we're here with you, in this room, we're going to break the law, we're never going to convince people on the streets: we're going to wear masks, we're going to pay for transportation, we're not going to rob when they need money, because we're going to break the Basic Law of this country. And finally what I was going to say. We're not told this week that people are dying in hospitals. We're not told this week what we need today, and I'm supporting the BUT faction and Julia Volodymyrovna, urgently enacting laws on the FOPs and saving jobs, urgently enacting laws on the Eurosil blur and saving people money, because they have nothing to survive for. And today, these laws need to be put into the agenda and voted. And whoever wants to continue to receive money from abroad and shout that they are strong, we will not let Ukraine be destroyed, Ukraine will be independent of everyone, only it will be dependent on the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u7	Vitotrowicz Volodymyr Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u8	The Ukrainians, in addition to the economic crisis, have been sinking into the worst political crisis in recent years, with signs of a constitutional upheaval and an usurpation of power by Zelenski. You can see these crises on the street. Look, there are FOPs that the authorities are cynically killing. I call on the Hall to save the Ukrainian FOPs and support Bills 3853-1 and 3993-1. The infamous decision of the Constitutional Court to abolish criminal responsibility for violating the European Solidarity Rules is indignant at the fact that this decision undermines the fundamentals of the fight against corruption that our team has laid after the Dignity Revolution. To preserve these achievements and not destroy the country, "European solidarity" has a step-by-step plan to come out of this constitutional crisis, which has been submerged by a country of dilettarians in power. First of all, laws must be enacted immediately to restore a severe electronic declaration with criminal responsibility for the violation. Instead, what does Zelenski offer? Guarantee (in paws) The Constitutions are open to their deputies to pass an anti-constitutional law on the dissolution of the CSO. It is clear to everyone that this is a deliberate attempt to obtain a manual Constitutional Court, which will then recognize all the bank’s caprimony as legal. Similarly, Janukovic acted when he empowered himself with dictatorial powers. Greensky’s decision has already been condemned in a joint statement by the leaders of the Venice Commission and the European Council of Europe’s anticorruption monitoring body GRECO. In fact, today’s political crisis arose immediately after the failed Green Local Elections. Despite pressure, counterfeiting and other dirty technologies from the European Solidarity Authority, it has become the only, I emphasize, single political force that is represented in all district councils and district centers, from Uzhgrad to Kramatorska. And we thank you for supporting each voter personally. But the main thing is this. Yesterday, Ukraine crossed the line into 400,000 confirmed cases of coronary infection. Despite the 66 billion dollars allocated to combat the epidemic, the authorities have yet to provide neither mass testing nor the protection of doctors nor the availability of oxygen and medicines. Instead, we can see how antiquities are being pooled on roads and offshoring, on the force, even for the production of serials. By this, Mr. Zelensky, you kill Ukrainians who had a chance to recover and instead die from the virus. We demand that all the money for purpose be returned to the Antiquities Fund, that medical personnel be provided with insurance, and that the hospital be provided with oxygen, medicines, and equipment. And there's more. Mr. Zelensky, if you don't know, we've had another crackdown on the front, resulting in the death of Ukrainian defenders. Where is your adequate response?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u9	The alien Boris Viktorovich. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, the national MPs, the Ukrainians! I wanted to start out with what's most important, and it's not election results, it's not a constitutional crisis, it's the situation with the Coronavirus pandemic on the spot. This is the most important thing today, because people's lives are the most important and the highest value. Today, there's going to be a public health minister who's going to be trying to hang all the dogs. But I want to tell you that the questions that have now arisen in our health care areas are our collective responsibility, or, if you like, collective irresponsibility. This is the irresponsibility of the government, the ministries, the Supreme Council, the President, the district administrations and their departments, the district labs, the support hospitals, the chief doctors. But I want to start with a good one. Our district hospitals are major hospitals, and I have to say, they got the money to pay doctors, to buy medical supplies, to buy drugs. But the thing is, not all hospitals are dealing with it, not all hospitals are buying drugs on time, although we voted on a law that allows outside of solicitation to buy drugs in one or two days. It's not always the government that makes timely changes to medicines and doesn't make the changes in the treatment protocols in the 225th Order, which allows tenders to be made in one or two days without solicitation. What I'm saying is that every district hospital in Winnitzina received about 2.5 million dollars for medicine and medical supplements, got 300-400 thousand at an oxygen station, now created by local budgets, also by government budget revenues, centralized oxygen stations. But I want to assure you that it is essential for hospitals to report officially on their websites to show the availability of medicines in warehouses. Because Mrs. Borzov can confirm that there are hospitals that have 10 million in their accounts and that patients are sent to buy, seek, and buy drugs. I also want to draw your attention to the insurance situation. We voted on a populist bill that guaranteed payment not to all doctors but only to those who had died and to those who had been disabled. I want to say that even those who died in my district are Olena Mikolayevna Mironishena, the Fox of Vitaly, this is Mikola Mikolayovich Kirichenko, their families have not received a penny. And now the Social Insurance Fund is doing its best not to pay these payments, but only 20 percent of the doctors who have died have received such benefits from their families. I appeal to the Ministry of Social Policy, which is responsible for this, and to the Social Insurance Fund, not to block payment to the families of doctors who have died.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u11	The word is given to the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians! Today, right now, the aggressor country of the Russian Federation is carrying out another insolent attack on the basis of Ukrainian statehood. Today, the object of their attack was the fundamental fundamental values that Ukrainian citizens stood for during the Dignity Revolution — patriotism and order. Patriotism became the target of an attack by the Russian Federation to destroy the foundations of Ukrainian statehood, and patriotism became the target of an attack by the Russian Federation to destroy Ukrainian statehood. What are we talking about? The Russian Federation, with the help of its agents of influence in Ukraine, including those represented in our Parliament, has initiated the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's recognition of unconstitutional basic laws, which form the basis for Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration, namely anti-corruption laws. Was it by chance that these laws were the object of attacks by the Russian Federation because of the controlling political powers in Ukraine? Of course not. Because this is the foundation, the foundation of national consciousness, the foundation of the political party "Serve of the People," which declares zero tolerance for corruption. Was the Constitutional Court randomly chosen as a tool for carrying out another hybrid attack on Ukrainian statehood? No, not by accident. Because there is a group of judges in the Constitutional Court who openly sympathize with the Russian Federation. He led this group of Heads of the Constitutional Court, which, back in 2014, when the Constitutional Court of Ukraine recognized as unconstitutional the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Order the holding of the universal referendum, argued that the Constitutional Court did not have the right to assess the constitutionality of the ruling in the light of Ukraine's international treaties. He also said that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was operating under some extraordinary conditions, and so she had to be asked why it had adopted such a decision. This is a separate opinion of the Constitutional Court Judge Tupicka prior to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 14 April 2014. What actions can be taken? Actions must be adequate threats. President Zelenski offered the right path on live yesterday, and for the moment, the most optimal course: the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, 11, who voted in favour of a disgraceful decision, should resign immediately. In doing so, they will preserve the stability of the Ukrainian state, thereby preserving Ukraine as an independent, sovereign state. If they do not do so, Parliament will do so, and if Parliament does not do so, the street can do so. Let's not let those be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u13	The word is given to the National Deputy of Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Scorch Mikola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u15	Please, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u16	People's MP Skorik, faction of the Opposition Platform for Life. Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! First of all, let me, on behalf of our political power, thank all the Ukrainian citizens who voted in the last local elections for our political power. And on behalf of our political power, I can assure you that our representatives will do everything they can to justify your trust. You know, I feel like we have a society in the same world and power in the same world. Instead of worrying about an honest vote count and compiling the official summary of local elections, instead of taking real steps to restore peace in our country, instead of worrying about tariff cuts, and we have tariffs today far higher than the previous government, and the current authorities have assured us that it will be the other way around, instead of actually fighting COVID, and I can report that today we have set a new record of 8,000 999 diseases in the past, it's a record that tells us that we're jumping into a more serious epidemic, we're not ready for that. Instead of actually working on the preparation of a normal budget, not the heist budget offered to our country, today, unfortunately, the presidential team, its majority in the Supreme Council is pushing the country into a really constitutional coup and constitutional crisis. What's happening right now is that as a citizen, as a member of the faction of the opposition platform of life, as a national MP, has all the signs of usurpation of power. That bill on the dissolution of the Constitutional Court, the actual dissolution of the Constitutional Court, is completely unconstitutional. You're ignoring the point of view of the Venice Commission, you're ignoring the point of view of Ukrainian society, and what's happening right now is actually a repetition of the events of 2014. I believe and urge you, colleagues, to worry about the country's problems. Today, the main problems are in the plane of uniting us around the key problems that I have just listed: this is peace, these are tariffs, this is the fight against COVID, this is the boost of the economy. Not only does this concern my native Odessa, but it bothers all the cities of our country from east to west and from north to south. We need to unite around normal issues, not about constitutional rebellion. If, God forbid, you vote for these bills, you will be responsible for the law. I wouldn't want that very much. I wish we could work together for the Ukrainian state for our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a decision was taken to review today's meeting of the Ukrainian Health Minister's information on the condition of the disease for COPID-19's coronary disease in Ukraine and urgent measures to combat this disease in the context of its widespread spread. The following is suggested: a speech by the Ukrainian Health Minister, within 10 minutes, the minister's response to questions from MPs and groups to take up to 21 minutes. Next, one minute for every oral question and two minutes for the answer. Is there no objection? None. Then, honourable colleagues, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov, is invited to the podium. Please, Maxim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. I address everyone, no matter where he is: here, in the session room, on the other side of the TV screen, in public transport, in the shop, at work or at home. I address every Ukrainian. We have reached the point of no return and are close to disaster. The situation is critical not only in Ukraine but also worldwide. England, France, Austria, Germany, and Spain once again impose strict quarantine restrictions. The loads of COVID-19 do not even withstand the most powerful medical systems in Europe. Hard times ahead. Many will not like the following words, but that is a fact. There is no single individual responsible for the fight against COVID. No one in the world can solve the problem of the Coronnavirus alone, and no one can solve the problem for anyone. The time has come for everyone’s personal responsibility to skip. Yeah, I didn't say a word. Coronavirus is spread exclusively from one person to another, so each one of us has a personal responsibility for the spread of coronary disease. You can blame the Ministry of Health as much as you want, but we can't follow the rules for you. Only you can protect yourself, only you can wear a mask, wash your hands, and keep your distance. Only you can act responsibly when the first symptoms arise: consult a doctor, isolate yourself, and do not put others in danger. Your life is in your hands. The only way to defeat the coronavirus is by working together. I want to tell you the real state of affairs. The situation quickly turns from a complex to a catastrophic situation. The epidemic develops at a stormy rate around the world. We need to prepare for the inevitable, and it is not easy to pass the second moment. So our efforts are to cope with these trials with minimal costs. Unfortunately, we do not have a medical system, such as Austria. Our medicine has been destroyed for 29 years. 29 years of destruction. And in the last seven months, we've been able to create labs in an emergency order, actually from scratch, retrain doctors, increase the number of beds four times. We're going to plan to increase the number of PLR tests to 50,000 per day. Now their number is over 47,000. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the epidemic there were only 200 tests per day. Our next target is 75,000 PLR tests every day. Powerful devices have already been purchased to perform PCR diagnostics for auto-removal of Coronavirus RNA. There is already a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate an additional 1 billion 259 million dollars for the testing process, including a billion dollars for the purchase of antigen tests to SARS-COV-2. This will allow you to do another 1 million tests per month. Nearly 213 million will be transferred to build laboratory capacities in utility facilities to increase testing by the PLR method in hospitals. We have completed the tests of Ukrainian test systems to define IFA-antigen to SARS-COV-2 and are already implementing them in Ukraine. As for the number of beds in general throughout the country. In April, there were 12,000 people in Ukraine who were theoretically ready to receive COVID-19. Now we've brought this to nearly 52,000. There are 5.3 billion dollars available for our hospitals, including 572 million dollars transferred to oxygen - powered areas. Today, more than 18,000 beds are equipped with oxygen. By mid-November, the number of beds with oxygen will be increased to 26,000, and by the end of November in general to 40,000 beds. These hospitals are owned and owned by local communities. And the Ministry of Health has been tasking hospitals from the beginning of the epidemic to increase the number of beds with oxygen. In addition to hospitals, hospitals, and equipment purchases, 1 billion 927 million have been allocated to purchase 161 CTs and 1 billion 80 million to purchase angiographers. At the same time, the principle is to understand that the health system is limited and has 52,000 beds, which is 30 percent of the total number of beds per country, of the total number of beds. Other diseases did not take place in connection with the coronavirus. The Ministry of Health is now working to increase the number of beds by a few tens of thousands. But at any rate we didn't add a place to bed, the coronavirus spreads much faster. This situation is the same all over the world. But whatever we're trying to increase the number of beds, there's a limit. And if it reaches 100 percent, we're going to have to apply the activation of medical sorting protocols with priority to providing medical care to patients with a higher chance of survival. And that would mean that our medical system couldn't handle it. It's actually going to be a disaster. For us, it's not the beds, it's the people, the doctors and the medical staff. If there are not enough doctors, the number of beds should no longer matter. We work with doctors of other specialities, as well as with interns and university medical students to treat cadaveric patients. One question is pay. At this time, 30 percent of the payments are paid in full to health - care workers who are directly fighting COVID. In addition, payments have been made to all health - care workers since September. The total amount allocated to these needs is 6 billion dollars. Taking into account the tremendous strain on family doctors, we increased their equity rate to 651 bracelets. On average, family doctors now receive an additional seven and a half thousand dollars a month. But that's not enough. The doctor’s minimum wage should be at least 22,000 dollars. Therefore, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to keep this in mind when adopting the budget for the following year. In recent times, local and district hotlines have not been able to handle the number of calls, so we've created the only contact point to help patients with SOVID-19. The number of the contact center is on the official resources of the Ministry of Health, and it works around the clock. I refer to the deputies and mayors of the cities. Gentlemen, the election is over, now there is nothing that prevents you from following the rules and requirements that are laid down for your region. I address every Ukrainian. Fellow citizens, no one for you without your personal involvement will solve the problem of the Coronavirus. Each of us is personally responsible for the distribution of SOVID. No one will wash your hands or put on a mask, only you can stay at home with the first symptoms of the disease. Many do not want to wear masks, do not want to use antiseptics, do not want to stay away, despite the recommendations of the Ministry of Health, visit people’s places, take mass measures, violate safety rules, and want the disease not to spread. You won't be able to jump in the water or get wet. That's not how it works. If the Ukrainians continue to scrupulously disregard security rules, we will not avoid disaster. It's the hardest thing to do. Remember, each of us, wherever you are, regardless of age, status, or political preferences, is personally responsible for the distribution of the Coronavirus. Take care of yourself and your loved ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u19	You're done, aren't you? Honorable National MPs, we turn to questions to the Minister of Health from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. I remind you that according to our agreed regulations, 21 minutes are allocated. Please. Please, National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give Alexia the word. A potter's girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u21	Potter Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u22	Pottery Alexi, European Solidarity. I have the following questions. First. How many doctors have died from COVID-19 and how many doctors and their families have been assisted by the state in this regard? And I want to hear the exact number. Second question. How many doctors received an allowance of 300 percent, and medical personnel in general, for their work in particularly dangerous conditions? Question three. Why has Slovakia been able to protest the entire population of its country in two days, and Ukraine has not yet been able to organize such a number of tests so that people do not stand in line and get quick results? Why is Ukraine one of the worst in Europe by the number of tests of 100,000 people so far after seven months of fighting the so-called pandemic? Were you more involved in fighting for the votes of the electorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u23	First. As for the number of people who died of coronary disease. We have only 7 thousand,532 dead in the country, and the number of doctors, medical workers, is more faithful than the number who died in the struggle against COVID — 212. Next, what is involved in the laboratory studies that you so often mention. So once again, I want to emphasize that we've increased the number of studies by almost 250 times. And it's a shame that you didn't mention this before when you were in Parliament, as a national MP, you didn't mention anything about the lab centers in particular, and how do we build this system? And the next thing is about payoffs. I want to emphasize once again, all without exception, 300 percent of those who go to medical personnel who are directly fighting COVID-19 are all paid in full. Furthermore, according to our decision, according to the government’s decision, additionally, starting in September, all health - care workers work in hospitals receive an additional payment regardless of how they work. It's 3,000 650 bracelets -- doctors, 2.5 thousand -- nurses and 1 thousand 250 bracelets -- paramedics and paramedics.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u24	Please, National Deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u26	Olga Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Stepanov, you used to translate your responsibility to your predecessors, to people, as always, saying that everyone around you is guilty except you. But it is obvious and long ago that it is you, Mr. Stepanov, who is to blame for this terrible statistics that you are today. You're the one who failed the extensive testing, the preparation of hospitals, the communication with the population. I don't think many of us have any questions for you. I have a question for you, do you know what you'll be doing as soon as the Supreme Council supports your resignation?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u28	Madam National MP, first of all, you're sitting in vain without a mask. Oh, you see, I've already done something useful for you. Second, I already told you, not all dreams come true. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u29	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u30	Dear Minister, on September 30, a doctor at the Ternopil County Regional Hospital, Ivan Wenzinović, died. This is the person who was present on all the boards of the country with the "Thank you for Life" action. This is the person who saved lives, but unfortunately, the test, the positive test on the coronavirus, came after his death, and now his family can't get compensation. Please take this matter for personal control. I'd like to ask you another question. You said last time in your speech that one question was to adopt drafts and the other was to put them into practice. If you are prevented from implementing drafts, if you are prevented from working, rather than taking part in a vacation election, please tell us who it is or go to. We don't have to tell you how many beds in hospitals, we know that. How many more people must die in order for you to leave your post? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u31	What I understand is that you have a question, from what you said, about including testing issues, because it was in this bill that you may have mentioned. So I'm telling you again, it was in my speech, so I understand that you just didn't listen to it because it was not interesting. So that's what's going on with the tests. I emphasize once again, we have a clear understanding and a test strategy, we have an increase in the number of PLR diagnostics, PLR testing, we've already increased to almost 50,000, and we're going to have 75,000 more. And then we're running an antigen test, this is what's called a quick test, the funds already allocated, the purchases are happening, and our tests on the IFA-antigen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u32	Please, Kuzminy Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u33	Good afternoon! Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. 10 / 10 The Council decided to open a field hospital. What has been done to you so far, and what do you plan to do? And the second question. We're actually running out of oxygen in the country right now, and that's a huge problem in hospitals. And the question is, what are you doing to solve this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u34	Thank you. It's about mobile hospitals. Three locations have been defined for today: the city of Kiev, the Donetsk region, and the Odessa region. The local authorities have determined where they can be located, these hospitals. The amount of funds needed to expand the field hospitals was calculated from 50 beds — one field hospital, a mobile hospital. The number of health workers working there is 1,000 200. The amount of money and the equipment that is needed. And the funds are being allocated accordingly. That is to say, documents have been prepared as appropriate for the allocation of these funds directly to the regions that will handle these mobile hospitals as needed. But I agree with you that we need to prepare for this. That's the first one. What's related to oxygen. We have an oxygen problem today. We don't have a problem with the very production of oxygen. We have a problem directly with tars, with so-called balloons, with oxygen containers. A corresponding mandate was given to the Ministry of Economics to address this issue. In addition, we allocated 572 million dollars in early October directly to the region. Now they've added to the need that they need an additional 895 million dollars in each region in order to bring the number of oxygen beds to almost 80 percent in each region. These funds will also be allocated from the hedge fund to this particular problem. So once again, the question of oxygen was put to the regions at the beginning of the epidemic, and then there were a few errands, including the government's commission, about exactly the number of beds to be provided with oxygen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u35	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u36	Mr. Minister, we know very well, and you know very well how tragic the situation is for people right now in connection with COVID. You know the system's not working. We realize, our team, that no minister can stand alone against the entire tsunami crisis. And that's why we took the Supreme Council's ruling, and you know very well where we've postulated what we should do. The first is to create a national headquarters led by the President and the President to assume responsibility. Do whatever it takes to make a hotline where a person can call and call himself, or a fast one, or a cell phone. Free medications, free tests for outpatients, and hospital patients. Open the lab network, buy tests so that at least 100,000 tests per day are done. But it is the responsibility of all authority. Tell me, what's going on with this decision right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. First. One of the points of the decision that was about to create a contact center, it worked yesterday. It's a large contact center for 150 operators, already working there. Indeed, there was enough pressure, on the average they received about 600 calls an hour yesterday. All the calls that have been received without exception are provided with appropriate advice, and we will continue to increase the number of these operators if necessary. Next thing you know, it's about testing. Test strategy. First. We're increasing it's PLR testing, but it's the ability and the mechanism of the PLR testing itself. So we can't do 100,000 in one day. We know that now we're going to go out 50,000, then 75,000, right after the PLR test. In addition, a decree has already been passed and a decision has been made on the purchase of rapid antigen tests. You know, this thing is used all over the world and it's also used for screening. And in the near future, I think in a couple of weeks we're going to start using these rapid tests. So far, a billion dollars have been allocated to buy these tests. And besides, I.F.A. tests on antigens, they've been very good at testing in our labs, we're starting this work. But I think in this way, the general way, we're going to do exactly 100,000 tests, what you're talking about, in the daytime, we're trying to do it over the month, so that we can get to those numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u38	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u39	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Minister, please tell me the first question: where do we get these tests and why we don't use Ukrainian tests for cheap ones? And today, article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine does not implement social protection. Free masks, free tests. Why today, at the crossings of the Regional Lugansk Region, in the Donetsk region, people who come to the peaceful Ukraine have to pass a test and wait three days, without another – 2.5 thousand dollars, in turn – 1.5 thousand dollars, live like beggars, in some tents, tents. People are thrown away on their own. Why do we view people as second-class, displaced persons who also look forward to a peaceful life that awaits a normal view of authority toward people? And I would like to hear why the reform of Suprun continues today when we look at villages, villages, small cities, and hospitals that are closed, not only at the big cities where hospitals are being built today. Thank you, Sergey Shahov, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u40	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. First. What's going on with the tests? I want to emphasize again, we increase the number of tests every day. And we're sure that especially people who have symptoms or who need to be tested should do it for free, without queues, without these three days that you're talking about. I'm sure that all of this will be over in the near future, and we can do it completely. What is involved in medicine and medical reform. And once again, I'm counting on you very much in the next year's budget vote, so you're going to be so passionate about protecting our medical field and the cost of health care. Because you understand, in order to work, including health workers, including in rural areas, regardless of where the Ukrainians live, we build our system on this principle, that everyone needs medical care without exception, no matter what. It's all about funding. Not in the final sense, as was the last 29 years. Let's change this situation, change it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u42	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank our doctors for what they do for all the Ukrainians. Thank you for having us, thank you and thank you for us. I have a question. You say that the situation in Ukraine is the same as in Europe. In Europe, however, additional beds have been ready since July to provide oxygen and to wait for the sick. And we're just starting to do it. In Slovakia, the entire population of Slovakia was protested in two days to find the sick for free. And we have a tax on the income of individuals for tests that pay businesses. And the last. The 4030a bill that we're going to adopt today, it's him. changes to the loan budget to ensure the fight against COVID. Where's the anchor fund, where?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all. We started making beds at the beginning of the epidemic. At the beginning of the epidemic, we had 12,000 theoretically ready beds for the admission of patients with COVID-19, and today it's 52,000 beds. I think everyone understands the difference. Once again, at the beginning of the epidemic, we had 200 tests per day, and now we have almost 50,000 tests per day. To do that, we had to do what we did. As far as medical personnel are concerned, here I fully agree with you that they should say thank you every day. But in addition to saying thank you, I think we need our medical staff's salary not to be the least in our country as it is today. And it's in ours. including the budget request, we propose that the medical worker’s salary, at least the doctor’s, be at least 22,000 dollars. We're counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, here we are. Thank you, Minister. Thank you for your information. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two MP factions. factions and groups, Fatherland and Trust, about a real break. Do I get it right? What is the subject of the meeting? Julia Volodymyrna, what's the subject of the meeting? Other than the heads of factions, do we need anyone else? Who? The Gethmans? I got it. Please, then, the heads of the MP factions and groups, gather in my office, and I'll also invite Danila Alexandrovich Getmanchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Now let's get to work, and we're going to need to adopt a draft Order to make changes to the agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I think there's going to be an important announcement here. Dear colleagues, there has just been a meeting, a working meeting, the leadership of Parliament and representatives of all MP factions and groups. There was a discussion about a situation that involves the support of small and medium-sized businesses in the background of COVID, which unfortunately continues to unfold today, and in our country, you also see, all saw the latest figures of those who got sick in the past era. A unanimous position was adopted to postpone the use of cashiers for a simplified tax system for the year until 01.01.2022. This is the consolidated position of all factions and MPs working in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly. Today, this bill must be registered. The commission of the committee will be given tomorrow immediately, and I'm sure no one will deny it if we look at it tomorrow. I hope that it will be supported on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's get to work. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3050a-7). Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Now there's going to be another one, we have a lot of questions to go through today, dear colleagues. Ready to vote? Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:48:38]] For 203 The decision is not taken. From the procedure? Coltunovich, Sobolev. Dear colleagues, I have a question: You're having a strange day. Then let's get out of the procedure and put it to the vote again. It's a procedural decision, we can do it. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Reverend Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Our faction did not support this draft regulation, because there are no initiatives here concerning gas and tariff policy. Now, the important point is that we now have the price of almost 9,000 200 dollars of gas across the country. In the Mikolai region, 10200, in Kiev, 9,200. That is why this has never happened before. 8550 was still with Groissman in November 2018. So it's very important for us to now include our draft Law 2126 or any other that will determine the formula in the tariff to lower the price of gas. There are economic preconditions for this, and we can do this. Then we can maintain the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Unfortunately, we don't include it in the voice, you know that, too. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, we're not speaking. We are already at the last of all councils and advisory boards to raise 83 issues that regulate very different issues: both fiscal policy, tax policy, and tariff policy, and the question of the responsibility of judges. Unfortunately, out of 83 questions, only 2 are included in this project. We think it's wrong policy not to include questions that should be considered by the committees, and only by the committee's conclusions should the session room then be defined. Therefore, we ask you to include persistently those issues that have been registered in full compliance with the Ukrainian Rules, and this will allow you to unlock the work and continue to move with the voices of the Fatherland faction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u52	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Our faction has passed more than 50 laws on the protection of doctors, teachers, the army, the reduction of salaries for national MPs, a lot of important things. What do you think is in this resolve? Only two or three of our projects we've submitted. What's here? There's only "ministers of the people." I wonder, by the way, where is the bill of "deserved lawyer of Ukraine" by Vladimir Zelensky, who proposes to launch the Constitutional Court, the anti-constitutional law on our, unfortunately, corrupt court? Where is it? By the way, I have passed an alternative bill that, if it is already considered worthless by the Constitutional Court, let us recognize the value of the decision that this Supreme Council made when it dissolved it. At that time, he was in a position to make decisions. Now they don't fit. Don't forget to turn it on. I'm actually wondering how we don't have a day-to-day discussion of Sariq's post? Because in fact today the state is in a constitutional crisis, and Zelensky is fasting the answers to Sarik on his page. I realize that this is exactly what's going on in the state. Come on, put the right laws to protect people in order of the day. And stop killing people's heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, let's go back to the procedural issue of the Order of Amendments to the Order of the Day. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I put to the vote the draft Order on Change to the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call (project registration number 3050a-7). Are you ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u55	Wait, Ruslan Alexiyovich, wait. In general, a draft ruling is put to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u56	Yes, yes, the decision to make in general. Are you ready to vote? Dear colleagues, then I ask you to support and vote. [[11:53:28]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4202). Can I talk to you for a second? Sure. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth draft bill (Registration No. 4202). This is Project Decree 4202. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:24]] For 307 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of individual issues and the activities of local self-government authorities and district government administrations (registration number 3651-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:55:04]] For 223 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes from both the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u58	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, is actually a technical but very important bill for local self-government. On October 25, the representatives of probably all the political forces represented in Parliament met in the councils of the communities, district councils, and district councils. But nevertheless, we have to provide them with a constant and quality function. The bill, it contains the first two key positions. The first is the principle of legal succession, in which communities will continue to function, so that we do not paralyze them. The second relates directly to the reorganization of the executive branch, or district government. It's worth noting that all associations of local self-government, all four across the country, support the bill, and actually letters from them, and even text messages today probably got each of us. We also understand that each party should vote for it either because it's not about politics, and it can't be about opposition, because we can't be opposing, in fact, to local self-government or to the state. As for the position of the committee. At its meeting on September 30, the Committee on State Authorities, Local Government, Regional Development and Urbanization reviewed draft Law 3651, which was sent to the Committee for re-reading. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed that the Committee's consideration of the Committee's legislative drafting 3651-d should be based on paragraph 1 of Part One and Part Two of Article 114 of the Rules of Procedure for the Reconsideration of the First reading to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. In the event of the adoption of the bill in a re-first reading on the basis and in general, we propose that the committee be entrusted with the preparation of the relevant law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council to undertake its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. However, since we have now had fruitful consultations with representatives of various factions and groups and to prevent the bill from failing in the vote, the committee, including the willingness to support the initiative, is willing to vote on the basis of a reduction in preparation for the second reading and application of article 116 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u60	Soboljevo, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u61	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! This bill, which is secondly introduced in the new edition, has substantial suggestions that allow for a number of issues to be resolved by the united communities. I would like to remind you from the Fatherland faction that almost 35,000 deputies will represent a united community of 10,000 and up to 10,000 voters from the total of nearly 42,000 deputies. In fact, it is for these united communities that we are now making decisions. Our faction, after careful consideration of the proposals for rereading, will only support this bill in its first reading, since it deals with only one question of the four key issues that will now be brought to the local united communities by representatives of the various parties. On the occasion, we would like to thank the citizens of Ukraine for their serious support in the united communities of the "Fatherland" party, which will allow for the formation of a healthier majority, but not on political issues, but on issues of community resolution. We support the initiative of this bill, but we believe that, on the second reading and plus some legislative initiatives, we need to address not only transfer and ownership, but also budget support, tax support and, equally important, eventually complete the process of creating executive bodies in areas and areas. Under this condition, the faction votes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late, because there are several speeches, and then we're going to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u64	Vasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u66	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u67	Dear Ukrainians, fellow national MPs! As for the bill that we're talking about, I want to say that this bill is not about politics and political multi-tasking, this bill about people. And I want to explain to everyone why this bill is primarily about people and why it was so important to accept it long before the local elections, not today. We had a local election. And after the local elections, the country changed. Instead of more than 11,000 local councils, we now have 1,436 new communities selected, instead of 490 circuits, we have 136 districts. And after such changes, after liquidation and reorganization, it's obvious that living as before is impossible. And what's very important is that the liquidation or reorganization of any institution or state authority cannot make people hostage and cannot provide for any restrictions on people themselves. Therefore, the succession that we are talking about in this bill is the succession of property rather than property, but it is the succession of human rights, including the right to work. And it's very important that this bill provides answers to questions that so often people ask in areas that work in social services departments, tens of thousands of people who can lose their jobs, and these are jobs. And this bill allows them to move on, take the next step, and this issue of succession is so important to resolve. I would like to emphasize once again that we and the Voice faction will support this bill because it's about people, it's about jobs, and that's why it's so important to give people the opportunity to work and answer people's questions about how to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we are in fact all still fresh, they say, from the electoral process, from the day of the vote, because the election took place on October 25th, and the electoral process is still going on, so we understand that we are all still in this electoral code. And I want to emphasize in the context of this bill that we will have to go back to the Electoral Code as well. Because, as of today, we have seen some flaws in the Electoral Code, that a week after the vote is over, the vote is still going on, the ballots are going to be copied, the summary records, the fact that people are being imported, the fact that people are being bribed, and so on. So obviously, I think that when we see those flaws, we should review the Electoral Codex and improve it. At the same time, I think we should focus on the shortcomings and the violations that took place in the city of Chernivka, where there is actually a lot of abuse, both in the city of Lviv, and in the region of Lviv, where we pay attention to the abuse of the ruling party that tried to falsify the electoral process, and so on. According to the bill. We think there should be a succession because today we've got a new administrative and territorial map of the country. We should guarantee employment rights for officials of district government administrations, district councils, local self - government agencies, and other employees when they are relieved of their duties in connection with the restructuring. And it's obvious that we should end this financial year successfully and show civil and legal civilization in the context of property rights and the responsibilities of united territorial communities, reorganized areas and district government administrations. That's why our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports this bill in the first reading in furthering its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u70	Thank you. National MP Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Then two more factions will appear in one minute, and then we'll go to the vote, so I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our faction will not support this bill, this is our position. You've already received the result of your reform of local self-government during the October 25th election. You can't find yourself there anymore. And that is the answer of the people to your desire for the people of the land. People expected that the united communities would agree with them, even though they would be questioned there instead of asking a variety of questions on October 25. That's why people told you. And today we realize that this law will actually deprive us of the ability to form our own budgets, even the communities that are now being created. Money is being taken away, not given, and the real income of communities is declining, not increasing. And the quintension of all of this was the situation surrounding the decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that there was something similar last year, which was related to the Law on Illegal Enrichment. The Constitutional Court made its remarks, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in one day corrected all mistakes and adopted the law that is still in force today. Because there was a desire, and there wasn't a hajpa, behind this hajpa, on the one hand, to cover the failure of the local elections, on the other hand, to use "sorosets." Because yesterday, on a channel, I saw the President surrounded by a bunch of kids. And you don't have to scare us with the election. We're ready. Is the President ready for the new Supreme Council? I don't think so. But we won't let you scare us. The stadium is the stadium, the election is the election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! After the local elections on a new territorial basis, we need to put local self - government and district administrations in place. Everyone is looking forward to the adoption of this bill. This will allow the work of the bodies that worked before to be completed, allowing the communities to adopt budgets, to approve the states that work in schools, to create a capable network of medical services. Thus, in the coming weeks, local authorities await this bill. And I urge you to vote on this critical and very necessary bill, which is crucial to the life of local self-government, for the further development of decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u74	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, our political power is a state power. We started decentralization, and Peter Dustenka’s team introduced it. Thus, even though the current authorities have challenged reform, the current authorities have not listened to people’s views in many areas about how new communities should be created, which should be the new ones. But despite all of this, today we can't abandon the state, and the main thing is, communities without being determined that property will be saved, that budgets will be executed, that people will get jobs, we can't abandon it. So we are ready to support this bill in the first reading. But we demand that the second reading remove from it the illegal position that the Cabinet of Ministers is reorganizing district government administrations and other things that need to be cleaned up. We need to develop local self - government, we do it, we do it, and we will do it all the time, because it's our European choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u76	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Bezgin? Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich, please. It's a motive. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u77	Once again, colleagues, decentralization reform is not about political flags, it's not about political flags -- it's about local self-government, it's about its institutions and its ability. Each political structure in the hall received deputies and heads of the communities that were elected on October 25. Now it's our joint responsibility with you to initiate a law enforcement procedure and not paralyze local self-government. So once again, you can be in opposition to power, you can't be in opposition to local self-government, and you can't be in opposition to the state of Ukraine. Therefore, I thank those who are ready to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I'll ask you a question right away. The committee's offering a foundation as a whole, but from what I understand, it's based. Because all factions support but believe that work is needed. Do I get it right? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the organization and activities of local self-government bodies and district government administrations (registration number 3651-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:49:54]] For 280 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 188, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 14, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 12, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shorten lines? According to part two of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3651-d). Please support and vote. [[12:50:55]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov is invited to attend. And I take it he's not the only one, is he?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainian people! Statement by the national deputies of Ukraine of various political factions and groups. "Confirming the irrefutable commitment to the ideals and principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect and the protection of human rights, taking into account the exceptional important role that the Constitutional Court is called upon to play, stressing the importance of ensuring public confidence in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, bearing in mind the Ukrainian people's request as a basis for the conversion of Ukraine and the close political association and economic integration with the European Union, recognizing the importance of the function of effective mechanisms of prevention and anti-corruption in Ukraine, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No.13-r/20, the jurisdictional system of the rule of law of 27 October 2020, and its influence on the part of anti-corruption legislation that has far-reaching consequences for all anti-corruption infrastructure of Ukraine, and the jurisdictional system of the rule of law, as defined by the rule of law and the state of power of the state, as a breach of the international state of the rule of the country, which constitutes a breach of jurisdiction which is the precribition which is a breach of non-cribating the long-cribing of the long- They call upon the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who supported Constitutional Court rulings No.13-r/2020 of 27 October 2020, namely: Tupický Aleksandra Mikolajovic, Hrodovenko Viktora Valentinović, Irina Mikolayovna, Kasminina Aleksandra Volodymirovich, Krivenka Viktor Vasilovich, Litvinova Alexandra Mikolajovic, Moisika Vladimiri Romanović, Sasa Sergija Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igora Dmitrovich, Filuk Petr Todosovich, Jurovska Galina Valentinovno, to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at their own request or to resign immediately. National deputies of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (Registration No. 3692). The committee is invited to meet with the head of the Committee's Committee on Budgeting, Mr. Leeza Valentinovna. 3692 Bill. Please. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Amendment number 4, Royal. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not how your rights are. What's that? It's counted. No, then we put her to the vote. No, no, if you put it, I'll put it to the vote. No, it's not. I'm betting on voting the law then in general. Dear colleagues, let us not wave. [[B in m in s a l in]] 18th for confirmation? Pussychuck? Galina Mikolayevna Tretlyakova, 18th edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u81	The point is, my offer, the 9th amendment, it predicted that we were unlocking the Social Insurance Fund, and also excluding sanatorium and car shopping. 18 Mr. Puziyczuk's amendment expands this and includes the financing of rehabilitation offices in sanatoriums. Considering that the funding of the Social Insurance Fund today is 2.5 billion dollars from the state budget, I propose that this be excluded, that we place it on confirmation, because the committee voted it, and that we don't vote to spend public spending on the ineligible costs of the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u82	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u83	Thank you. The committee's amendment has been taken into account and taken into account in an editorial way. Treatment in the rehabilitation wards of the sanatorium after transmission of diseases and injuries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u84	I'm betting on the vote number 18 of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. The committee is supported. Please support and vote. [[12:57:32]] For 251 I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote on the law as a whole? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020" (Registration No. 3692). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:25]] For 295 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the right of a natural person to change his father (registration number 2450). As a matter of fact, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Mr. Ivan Romanovich, is invited to the rostrum. Will someone insist on their work? Oh, no? Can we vote? Thank you, Ivan Romanovich. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the right of a natural person to change his father's rights (registration number 2450). Please support and vote. [[12:59:32]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on network optimization and the functioning of administrative services centres and improving access to administrative services provided electronically (registration number 2679). At the rostrum, the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and the construction of Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovna is invited to attend. No, you're not reporting, you're responding. If they do. No, there isn't. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? They won't. I'll bet you a vote. Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u85	Comrades, good afternoon! Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. I would ask that we look at this law from the point of view of services. Citizens of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u86	What's the correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u87	47th. Ukrainian citizens need administrative services quickly. We settled the question that services should not be provided through the center (i.e. you go to the center, and the center then goes to the services and agrees to the question), namely, at the center of the provision of administrative services. The state budget has to allocate funds for these administrative services centers to be created in the community. We have more than 1,000 400 today. It is vital that citizens receive services directly in these centres — whether it is land services or fire protection or urban conditions and so on. It is vital that we resolve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u88	I'm betting on the vote number 47 of Ichchenka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:02]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u89	Colleagues, I have a request. Number 8, she's mine, but I don't insist. Because she'll let us, if we don't vote her now, she'll still let us register the FOPs through "Joe." It was a reference to the legal system, but it blocks the registration of FOPs through "Dia." So I'm asking you to put my application for confirmation and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u90	Non-counting, non-confirmation, number eight. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u92	The author thinks that his editing may not be supported by the hall, do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u93	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u94	I'm betting on the vote number 8 of the People's Deputy, Bilozore. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:01]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u95	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u96	Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the optimization of the network and the functioning of the centres for the provision of administrative services and improving access to administrative services provided electronically (registration number 2679). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:03:53]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on data collection and information required for the declaration of separate objects of taxation (registration numbers: 4065, 4065-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:04:37]] For 253 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend. I understand that from both the committee and the authors? Turn on four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. What is this bill 4065? You and I have adopted, if you remember, a fairly loud bill of 1210, which became Law 466, the so - called anti - offshore anti - oligarchic law. This law, perhaps for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence, you and I have approved and properly taxed large businesses in the area of tax evasion through the use of low-tax jurisdictions. This is when money is transferred, made in Ukraine, transferred abroad, and not taxed here. Of course, these are clear requirements, these are rules, these are social justice requirements and requirements for any developed European country. Law 4065 amends the bill in accordance with the Tax Code at certain times, in some ways. In particular, the application of the principle of business is limited to off-shore jurisdiction. In addition, the standards of fine capitalization are clarified. These rules are clearly applied to transactions with nonresidents and are not extended by interest on loans from international financial organizations and foreign banks. In addition, rules apply. the application of the rules of effective management is carried over to the 22nd year. It cancels a seven-year limitation period for salary checks. KIC tax is being suspended from the 21st to the 22nd. In addition, the rules on taxation of oil, fuel oils, which you and I have taxed in order to cover one of the tax evasion schemes. This bill has been discussed repeatedly with various business associations, it is supported by business associations and is supported by members of our committee who voted in favour of supporting it on the basis and in general, if there is room will. Please support this bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u98	Thank you. The national deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we all remember the draft Law 1210, which became Law 466, which introduced radically new fiscal instruments, discretionary norms that greatly expanded the powers of the controlling authorities, changed the relationship between the controlling authority and the taxpayer. The negative effect of Law 466 was discussed by you in the Supreme Council, literally all factions, leaders of all factions, and for 3.5 months we waited for the President to veto not this bill, but he did otherwise. In doing so, he told his team, "the servants of the people," what you have after signing this law before the time when all these rules will come, make changes and abolish these discretionary norms. The faction didn't do it. So my alternative draft law concerns exactly the changes that are essential for all of business: for small, medium, large. These norms, which can't work in Ukraine and they only give additional powers to the controlling authorities, and they're just going to be focused on the pressure on business. What I'm offering. Excluding all norms, introducing the concept of guilt and increasing the liability of taxpayers. We have discussed this very much. The Supreme Court, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine, literally all said that these rules were vague, inconclusive and contravened in general by the Constitution of Ukraine. Limiting the use of a business goal solely by TCO operations, which has just been discussed in part of the bill. But we need to get this business goal out of everything else. Restoring the overall limitation period of up to 3 years after the PDF, cancelling the possibility of changes to the annual planning plan, restoring the ban on small and medium-sized business checks and cancelling the increase rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u100	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, you know, I always urge you to admit mistakes if they are allowed and correct them. This is what I do and call on all my colleagues and the Supreme Council as a whole. As has already been said in this rostrum, Fatherland has urged us not to vote in favour of the bill that we are now correcting. And it's a good thing that the committee worked and made the changes that business demanded, which business initially asked not to support, and then demanded. Therefore, delaying the introduction of some very "dragon" standards, which have been introduced by Bill 466 or repealing certain norms in general, is the right decision to support the Ukrainian business. Not just an oligarchi or a large one, but a small one, a medium one, including entrepreneurs. This includes certain standards for the application of RROs. Including, this applies to the application of controlled foreign companies and other forms that have been implemented in Ukraine, worked, but today this bill was supposed to be put on a stop by January 1st and actually create huge problems for the Ukrainian business. So the bill is not ideal, I mean the basic bill, but it can be supported, and it has to be worked out. That's why the Fatherland faction will support, and we call on colleagues in the hall to support and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u102	Blue. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is the problem with this law? Since the middle of this year, a law has been in force that provides for the total declaration of controlled foreign companies. The implementation of this declaration is our obligation under international agreements called BEPS. This is done in the context of de-offshoring the economy, collecting income taxes that offshors with Ukrainian roots seem to be getting somewhere in the islands, in the Ukrainian budget, as this is happening everywhere in the world. What does this law offer? These changes were to work from January 1, 2021, and the law postponed the deofshorization for a year. During this year, we're taking the de-offshorization away, and the Ukrainian budget is going to lose every day the money we're going to take from those FOPs that voted there today, whether we want to be brothers. And these losses will obviously be compensated by increasing tax burden on small and medium-sized businesses, which for clear reasons do not apply offshore. I realize that there are reasons that seem to justify such steps, particularly that the Ukrainian tax system did not automatically communicate with tax countries. But this is no excuse for us to continue offshoring the country again. So "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of Bill 4065-1 or otherwise require two bills to be sent to work on the proposals presented by Nina Petrovna Jujanina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u104	Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u106	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u107	Thank you. During our consideration of previous laws and of the situation around the Constitutional Court, we have found that it is unfortunately very difficult to find an understanding. But I hope that respect for the constitutional order will dominate each other's respect in this room, and it will really find a way out of the crisis that, unfortunately, we are being initiated today by the initiative of the President of Ukraine. On the other hand, we've always said that we're an opposition that doesn't work the "worst, the better" principle, we've always come together around those initiatives that are really going to stimulate the development of national entrepreneurship, the national economy, and contribute to increasing jobs, and, as a result, to the government budget, and as a result, I hope that it will continue to be a distribution of the social rights of our citizens, on pensions, on subsidies. Because I can't understand why after Dusty, taking into account the next budget we're offered, subsidies are shrinking almost twice. Did people start living twice as well? So, your honorary colleagues, it is unlikely that anyone will blame us for our cooperation, I heard a lot on various channels yesterday, working with former common factions, but today the entire Supreme Council of the Hall will unite, and all of us, in order to support entrepreneurs, to support in COVID conditions, in conditions where they are now deprived of many possibilities. And it's really a national interest and it's a principle, real patriotism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u108	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Polack Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u109	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, 206 district. You know, colleagues, it's very funny to watch Mr. Gethmans talk about nice initiatives for business. If you want to see the results of your annual work, you can come out, Mr. Getmants, I'm addressing you, you can go out and talk to FOP and entrepreneurs from all over Ukraine. First one year later, you passed Bills 1053, 1073. Zelensky promised not to sign them, but he signed them. Then there was Bill 1210, and the President signed it, but he promised all the European partners, the European Business Association, to veto it. And now it's a lobbyist, frankly, lobbyist bill that lobbies offshors and oligarchs' interests. Mr. Getmants, would you stop doing this? Will it be enough to cover up the oligarchs and offshore our country? I ask you not to support these bills or to support Mrs. Yuzanina's bill, which is about to solve the problems of the Institute of Guilt and Business. Or send these two bills for further processing. This is the position of the "For the Future" faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u110	Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich is a motive. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, this bill corrects the main errors of 1210: the business goal, controlled foreign companies, salary checks. That's what the business asked for. We can now discuss, we could have done more, we could do better, but that's what you've all promised, and what you've asked for. Unfortunately, on July 14th of this year we were able to accept these changes, they were in my bill 2524, but then because of the political populism of some politicians who are now so cynical that they are for business, these were rejected. I think business has given you its fair assessment. Now let's not do populism now, no longer November, we'll take this law as a basis and in general, and we'll continue to discuss it, because once again, it's not necessary for us, it's necessary for the Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u112	All those who wish to speak? Prepare for the vote, please. I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole, but I take it that's the basis, yes, only. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the provision of data and information necessary for the declaration of individual objects of taxation (registration number 4065). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:38]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. There's a proposal to cut the line. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4065). Please support and vote. [[13:21:18]] For 259. [[B in m in s a l in]] We understand what you're putting in general, but... Dear colleagues, you will have to consider the proposed draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Legal Regulation of Remote Work (Registration No. 4051). We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:22:11]] For 256 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:22:33]] For 232 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for including this bill in the agenda today. The bill deals with 35. 30 percent of the people who are employed today have moved to work at home or at a distance during the coronavirus. Today, the active KZOT does not provide for such forms of work. The bill is proposed at the legislative level to address the issue of such remote and domestic work. These changes propose to distinguish the concept of homework and distance work, and to prescribe a methodological apparatus and to establish that remote work is a job performed by a worker outside the employer's premises at any place he chooses and using information and communication technologies. A busy job is a job when it is done by an employee at his place of residence. And they are amended accordingly by the Labour Protection Act, which provides for employers to be able to familiarize workers with orders, reports, other documents using the electronic communications tools defined in the labor contract. The relevant information shall be made available by means of electronic documents between the owner or the authorized authority and the employee. In addition, the bill gives the employer the right to require temporary, up to two months of distance work in cases where acts of discrimination have been committed in the workplace. To establish that the employer is familiar with the internal employment regulations recommended or made available by the employer when entering into a remote employment agreement. A worker who has a child under the age of 3 or who takes care of a child before he reaches the age of 6 is given the opportunity to do his job on a remote basis. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility to establish, by written, mutual agreement, a system of work with self - adjusted working hours, working hours, and to determine how a person chooses time when he or she works at home and when he or she chooses homework or recreation. In addition, the bill strengthens the position that the employer is obliged to know no less than two months ’ notice of employees with the condition and specificity of their transition to flexible working hours. This is also a new expression that appeared in legislation during COVID. We've been talking about flexible working hours with you since March of this year, and we can now legislate it. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights has considered the bill and recommends it not only to include it in the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council, but also to recommend that Parliament adopt the bill in the first reading on a basis. I would like to point out that the positive acceptance of this bill is not only an association of employers, trade unions, but also other bodies, other steakholders, and there is a sufficiently positive conclusion of the GNEU, although who has proposed to take his comments and suggestions into account for the second reading, at the same time takes a positive view of the adoption of such a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision and vote on this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u114	Please sign up from factions: two for, two for, and two against. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u115	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the presidency, the distinguished national MPs, the Fatherland faction was ready to vote for this legislative initiative at the previous meeting of the Supreme Council, and I thank the authors for this, although late, but extremely necessary legislative initiative. Today, during quarantine, during the COVID-19 disease, the Ukrainian society has faithfully said to Mrs. Tretlyakow, almost 30 percent have moved to remote or home work, and it is very important that this is regulated by legislation by amending the Labour Code, and that we should talk about really reducing the consideration to second reading and making the necessary changes that our Chief Scientific and Expert Office points to on some of the details. Our team is going to vote in favour, and we think this is going to be one of the steps in supporting Ukrainian citizens who are using their savings to survive. I'm sure there should be other legislative initiatives, including support for small and medium-sized businesses, and those announced today by the Head of the Supreme Council on the expiration of FOP equipment. The Fatherland faction is going to vote yes and we're going to apply for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u116	Thank you. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u117	I'd like you to tell Grandma.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will support this bill. I want to get everyone's support. Because it's strange, but we're looking at the bill for a second time. Last time we didn't have enough votes, I don't know why. I fully agree with Mikhail Mikhailovich, Galina Mikolayevna, on the positive nature of the bill. And I want to point out that this bill will apply exclusively to jobs that do not need special working conditions and do not need special conditions to protect work. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u120	Please hand over the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u121	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, it's a very good bill. Of course, the Voice faction supports this bill. This bill, it updates, is very partial, but it updates our labor legislation to bring it a little closer to the present. But I have two questions. First. Why didn't we look at these things eight months ago when it was necessary? The second question. When are we going to be able to update labour legislation in a comprehensive way? I remember a year and a half ago, when we first started working here, there was a lot of talk about it, and then the process depended. We have labor legislation, it's lagging behind in real life, and this law is therefore an example, for tens of years. It's a rhetorical question, but I hope the government will answer it soon. And the third question. This law is related to the coronavirus. And we can see that we are these steps that are linked to addressing the problems that are, we are doing these steps with iron. Now there's a lot everybody's talking about and thinking about whether or not there's a lockdown or not, and so on. And I have a question here, probably not to you, colleagues, but to the government: when you answer us and the people, whether there's a lockdown and when. So that we don't have the same thing that happened in France when we introduced the lockdown, and then all of Paris in a 800-mile traffic jam depends, because people wanted to cut their hair and, lastly, make a manicure. Therefore, the honorable government, I hope, you listen to me. Give an answer to all Ukrainians if there's a lockdown. And if he does, tell him in at least two weeks to get people ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u123	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u124	Please give Paulie Rostislav the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u125	Pavlenko Rostislav Mihajlovich, Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u126	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. The "European Solidarity" faction will support this bill. But we think he's going to need thorough work, especially in the part that still applies to employers' rights to look at the job, the place of residence and so on, and to over-regulation of the procedures that this bill establishes. But I would also like to point out that the issue of combating coronary infection requires urgent consideration and other decisions on social insurance, on the reimbursement of the funds currently being used for the road fund, on the need, in particular, for the support of doctors and hospitals, so that we have the medical system ready so that the health minister does not talk about the disaster, and he and the entire government are working to prevent the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u127	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of remote work (registration No. 4051). Now, I see colleagues are on their way. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:34:53]] For 311 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 203, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 15, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 19, "The Future Party" – 14, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 12, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on State borrowing (registration No. 3040a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:35:47]] For 224 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u128	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Draft Law 3040a, developed by the National Health Committee, together with the Ministry of Health, for the purpose of involving additional financial resources in the fight against SOVID-19. In fact, the bill unlocks the possibility of receiving the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation of the project "Improving Health at the Service of People". To this end, it is proposed to increase by 547 million dollars the annual allocation schedules for the Ministry of Health for the 20th year by the corresponding budget programme by redistributing the state budget for the current year. These costs are planned to be used, inter alia, for the purchase of laboratory equipment, cost materials, testing systems and refrigeration equipment for laboratory centres, in accordance with contracts with United Nations agencies to support measures to combat SOVID-19. This will ensure that the funds of the corresponding loans are used effectively, which will work now and where the state needs them today. In addition, Ukraine will not have to pay the commission for the timely use of the loan. Please support this bill and recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u129	The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Lunchenko Valerij Valeriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered a bill of 3040a amending the Law on the State Budget for 2020 to address financial security measures aimed at preventing the spread and management of the effects of coronary disease. The main scientific and expert office does not deny the possibility of adopting a bill and notes the need to obtain a positive conclusion from the government. The committee was asked to draw the conclusions of the relevant ministries, including Minfin, as well as the Ministry of Health, Minenergo, and the Ministry of Health. They accepted the bill without notice and supported its adoption. The National Health, Medicine, and Medical Insurance Committee also supports the bill and recommends its adoption. The Budget Committee examines the draft draft, which takes into account the conclusions that have been drawn, and draws attention to the need for technical and editorial clarifications to be included in the bill, as noted in the Committee's letter. In particular, the committee proposes to clarify in the bill the budgetary indicators according to the August-Vertical laws on changes to the State budget for the 20th year to harmonize the legal rules, the name of the bill and its addenda to clarify the content and to bring the standards of design into line. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council bill 3040a as a result of a first reading review to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals made by the committee listed in the statement. Please support the committee's decision and vote for the law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, and two for, against, by factions. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u133	It's Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the cost will be directed towards the purchase of laboratory equipment, cost materials, testing systems and refrigeration equipment for laboratory centres in accordance with the contracts with UN agencies to support measures to combat COVID. It's really important. We will support this bill. At the same time, however, we want to stress that the problem of the purposeless use of funds allocated to the Coronation Fund has not disappeared. Therefore, in addition to involving additional funds, it is necessary to investigate and punish those responsible for spending the funds of the fund in such a critical time for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u135	Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Mr. Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u137	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u138	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honourable Ukrainian national MPs, this bill, which is currently under consideration by Parliament, foresees that an additional 556 million dollars will be funded by the Ministry of Health for the measures that are needed to overcome COVID, including for the construction and equipment of laboratories that are so essential to Ukraine. I think this bill needs to be supported in the session room. But at the same time, I would like to point out that last parliamentary week, that was October 20th, the Supreme Council of 300 voted in favour of the draft decision of Julia Timoshenko on specific measures to be taken to overcome COVID. Please tell me it's been two weeks since then. Why isn't there a government-specific decision to implement a Supreme Council decree that would provide for free population tests that would provide opportunities for those who are treated at home to receive free medications that would allow hospitals to buy the necessary medicines themselves, rather than wait for it to come down? These are the specific things that our team has done and supported the entire Parliament in order to enable us to really effectively overcome COVID. So I'm paying attention, we're voting on this bill. But once again, I want to draw the attention of the government, if the Supreme Council's ruling is not being implemented by the government, and the government is accountable and accountable to Parliament, I want to ask: how can people comply with the laws that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts if the authorities of the state do not implement the decisions that are taken in this sessionary room. So we need to get to the headquarters, the National Command to fight COVID, and the decision that was initiated by Yuli Timoshenko has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u139	Please, National Deputy Molotok Igor Fedorovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u140	Give the word to Father Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u141	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we have listened to Mr. Stephen’s Minister of Health today. On specific questions about how he's fighting COVID, we haven't heard specific answers. And obviously, given the magnitude of today's damage to the country of COVID, we have no illusions about the ability of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the separate Department of Health profile in the fight against the pandemic. But together with this, we realize that the budget year is coming to an end, and there are many articles in individual budget articles that can be manipulated. And such articles are also found in various departments of profile, particularly the Energy Ministry. So, obviously, we have doubts about the quality of the series of articles, including the capital repairs and the technical refurbishment of the Urengay-Pomara-Uzhgorod main gas pipeline, amounting to more than half a billion dollars in December of this year. And, of course, we think it's the right and logical transfer of half a billion dollars on the appropriate program of "Improving Public Health." But the question of the Ministry’s ability to absorb these funds in a qualitative manner remains open. And we don't hear the answers, we don't hear the result, we don't see the result, the citizens of Ukraine don't see the result of the fight against the pandemic by the profile ministry. So obviously we're voting for this switch, but we have great illusions that they're going to be qualitatively implemented on the purchases that are set out in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Now Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. There are no more who would like to speak? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u144	Thank you. The honourable chairman, respected colleagues, will surely support this loan bill, which will be funded, as colleagues have said, by more than 500 million dollars for the needs of the Ministry of Health, including all businesses involved in overcoming the consequences of the pandemic. But there is one question: And not more than 65 billion dollars, which we have all allocated together, with almost 400 votes, six months ago, were not enough for this 500 million to start not now, but to finish this work, so that it will be acquired, arranged for it to work and protect the health of our citizens. We're only going to get the money right now and start buying it. The roads were more important than human health? Of course, we are about to correct this mistake. But imagine, we're taking out funds from the state budget, not credits, but real money to fight COVID. And that's what we all did together, they're being directed to who, but not to defeat the COVID and not to fight the COVID. And now we're borrowing loans to finance what they stole the money from because they're being stolen on the road, and people are already talking about it. In Big Construction, it's been between 7 and 20 percent of the turnout, well forgotten. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to be responsible. Now, of course, our faction, hopefully, will support this whole Supreme Council Hall. And the fact that we've got the money from the hedge fund has to be the responsibility, and we have to be with you both investigators and prosecutors, attention, not judges, because it's an independent branch of government. Thank you for your attention. Thanks again to our doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I have a question right now: the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on State Loans (registration No. 3040a). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:48:06]] For 301 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 on State Loans (registration No. 3040a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:48:45.]] For 296 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the value added tax rate for individual transactions for the period of implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Poland on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid and other matters of government debt (Registration No. 3039a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:49:32]] For 224 Decision taken. Deputy Finance Minister Skurakov Vasil Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u146	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the value added tax for individual transactions for the period of implementation of the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid and other matters relating to government debt (Registration No. 3039a). It should be noted that on 9 September 2015, the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland was signed with a view to the inclusion of credit funds on the credit-supply terms with a view to implementing infrastructure projects in Ukraine. Today, contracts totalling 83.6 million euros have been made. There are currently no contracts worth 16.4 million euros. The loan cost of 5.6 million euros has been used. It should be noted that given article 11 of the treaty, which was ratified by the government, there is a provision for the release of goods, jobs, services financed by credit, from any tax paid in Ukraine. The bill has been called upon to resolve the situation of taxation of transactions from projects in Ukraine and foresees changes to the Tax Code in part temporarily for the period of implementation of the zero-tax loan agreement for the added value of the supply of goods, customs services in Ukraine, which are carried out directly by contractors registered in the Republic of Poland and their representations registered in the customs territory of Ukraine in accordance with contracts made by the contracting authorities for the construction and construction of public border units, international road crossing points, border construction projects, construction, reconstruction and capital repair of roadways to the Western region. The bill is also foreshadowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u147	Thank you. No, it's not. Time's up. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the 16th year, the Supreme Council ratified the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on the granting of credit for up to 100 million euros for general use routes and crossing points across the border with the Republic of Poland. Today, we offer you as a committee to support, in the first reading and in general, the bill that provides the benefit tax at zero rates, the transaction for the provision of goods and services in the customs territory of Ukraine, which is carried out directly by the contractors of the contract, and the representations that these contractors will register in the customs territory of Ukraine in accordance with contracts made to implement the contract with the contracting parties. We're going to get up to 100 million euros at 0.15 percent. In view of the above, the Committee has decided to recommend that the bill be supported on the basis and in general, and please also support its Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u149	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Nina Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u151	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, you have just heard from the Finance Minister and the Head of the Professional Committee that the contract provides that goods, jobs and services financed under contracts are exempt from payment of any taxes and duties. What, then, is written in the text of the law? And in the law, the text of the law that we are currently considering is offered at zero tax rates for the added cost of taxing transactions for the provision of goods, jobs, services in the customs territory of Ukraine in the execution of this contract. That's what it means. That's a big difference between getting fired and being taxed at zero. In such a case, non-residents who are registered in Poland as a state must be compensated for VAT from the state budget. Do you understand? I didn't understand at all why the Ministry of Finance didn't even look at the existing rules of the Tax Code. You remember when there was the same contract for the modernization of the Bortnicka Water Treatment Station as part of the project with, I think, Japan, we also wrote these standards. They are clearly indicated in paragraph 47, which provides for release, release, and not zero rate. So I'm asking, I think this is just a mistake that needs to be corrected, and this bill needs to be considered only on the first reading. And in the second reading, correct the error in order to make all the rules of the agreement that are interesting to all of us. It's just that there's either a technical or a methodological error from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u153	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u154	Galina Vasilchenko, Golos faction, Lvivščina, 118 constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill clearly needs to be supported as a minimum in the first reading. If there are any comments, of course, adjustments can be made and appropriate standards needed. But what we want to point out is that this is the bill that envisions improving the infrastructure that we really need to attract foreign investment. This bill is as important to me as it is to the community. So we're going to ask you, we're going to support you in the first reading, and we're also going to encourage other people's deputies to support this bill in order to unlock those processes that are, unfortunately, currently blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u155	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. You don't? Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u156	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u157	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. He's not here, is he?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you. Reverend Dmitry Aleksandrovich, the distinguished Ukrainian people's deputies, our faction will not support this bill. There are two unacceptable standards that, in our view, should not be, not even three, which should be considered in the hall today. First. This is about what Mrs. Nina Yuzanin has already said, which at zero tax on the added value is taxed on the supply of goods, services in the customs territory of Ukraine that are carried out directly by contractors registered in the Republic of Poland. The second point, which is also unacceptable for us, is to complement the list of sovereign debt securities issuers of Ukraine by a central executive authority that implements state policy in the sphere of government. and guaranteed by the State of Debt. But this is another moment, which is conceptual in general, which is above all of this. We're taking credit again, we're stockpiling the external, well, and the inside, too, to borrow to use them not as efficiently as we would like. Of course, if it were help, we'd say it's help, but when we take credit, when we increase the amount of government and state-guaranteed debt, which is now 82, almost 83 billion dollars, and in the gross equivalent there are 2 trillion and 335 billion dollars. So these costs, if we even divide into one Ukrainian, on average we're going to get about $2,000 of government and state-guaranteed debt per Ukrainian. That's what we have the number, and why conceptually the accumulation of this number is critical. And here's the question, not the ratio of debt to GDP, but the whole question of debt policy and approach, how the budget is formed, where two thirds are additional borrowings, where service, more specifically, buy-outs of additional GDP guarantees that have been bought out earlier than necessary, and a number of other points. So this policy is unacceptable, it's not able to develop an economy as a whole. We will not support this bill again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u159	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u160	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs. Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". First of all, this bill on the image of Ukraine in the eyes of Europeans and this bill on the quality of life of foreign communities in Western Ukraine. Let us consider the impression these people have when they come to our country by car. They see broken gaps, as well as broken roads that lead inside the country, and the roads that connect these crossings. And in particular, this is the road of Yavorov – Grušev, this is the road of Rava-Russia – the red town, this is the road of Shegini, this is the road of Sambor, this is the road of Žovkovščina. And clearly, the cost of repairing these roads is an international European loan. And there's already a contractor -- also an international firm. However, the full scope of these tasks is unfortunately still blocked. And in order to unlock this process and spend these credit costs and to speed up the reconstruction of these border roads, there's actually this bill. Therefore, I propose that we support him on the basis and in general. And he's going to make a zero VAT rate for the supply of goods and services in Ukraine that are being made by those performers who are registered in the neighbouring state of Poland. I think this will improve the condition of our roads and the comfort of the local people in Western Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u161	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? No one's motive? Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Invite the national deputies to the hall. The committee proposes – on the basis and in general. There's a "against" there. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Amendment Act to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the value added tax for individual transactions for the period of implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid and other matters of government debt (Registration No. 3039a). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:05]] For 291 Decision taken. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 3039a. Please support and vote. [[14:03:38]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law "On the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas" on the admission of researchers, investigators and prosecutors to the area of national security and defence measures, cutting off and deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. It's a second reading. The rostrum invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the national smaller and international relations of Tkachenko Maksim Mikolajovic. There was no right, so we're voting right now. Please prepare for the vote. Sit down, then, thank you. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas on the Admission of Researchers, Investigators and Prosecutors to the Area of National Security and Defence Measures, Section and Restraint of Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas (Registration No. 3984). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:43]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Act on Limiting the Circumstances of Plastic Packs in Ukraine (Registration No. 2051-1). That's it again. Recommends that the committee re-read it. No discussion, I'm voting. I am voting for the proposal to return to the second reading of the draft Plastic Pack Restriction Act in Ukraine (registration number 2051-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:06:44]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the prosecution of administrative offences. But the committee asked not to discuss the matter today, let us consider the next meeting. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judicial and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine before the adoption of the law on the change of the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment of (lying) areas (registration No. 3025a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:07:48]] For 243 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Demchenko Sergey Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, it is finally the turn to resolve the issues in our judicial system. Gradually, one step at a time, but I think we're going to end this decision almost next year. On July 17, 2020, the Supreme Council adopted an appropriate Order on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas, which resulted in a collapse in the fact that there are district courts and there are no appropriate areas. This makes it possible for the parties to the relevant meetings of the judicial authorities to make reasonable demands that the issue is not dealt with in the district court, and there is a corresponding legal collapse that will be used by the relevant nonconformity parties. In order to resolve this problem, it is proposed that the courts be essentially recast in accordance with the new districts, allowing the courts to decide the cases according to the areas to which they were formed before the decision was rendered. This is a temporary move, but it will allow us to avoid the legal uncertainty of the territorial jurisdiction that exists today and to avoid a corresponding collapse. So please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u163	Thank you. Paul Vasilovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine pending the adoption of the Act amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (licensation) of areas (registration number 3025a) (since 27 August 2020), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Demchenko, Kostyn and others, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law in such an order. The Committee's conclusion is in line with technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u166	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Trust Group. I give the word to Sergey the High.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u167	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Sergey the Great, Luhanščina, "Trust", "Our End", Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this act will contribute to reducing social tension in society and will promote the right to access to a court protected by the Constitution of Ukraine and affect the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. That's why the Trust MPs support this bill. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u168	Thank you. Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u169	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Igor Fries, "Serial of the People" faction. I want you to take this bill carefully and support it, considering that today the only protection that people have left is to appeal to a court. And the new circuitry can also help to determine the possibility for people to apply outside and determine a court that will not apply to the right area today. Given that the need for people to be tried has not diminished with regard to recourse, we need to give the opportunity until the new courts are established, in accordance with the new district of the administrative and territorial system, to be able to address those courts that are today. That's why it's absolutely relevant, it's necessary. I'm asking you all to back me up. This is a law that is absolutely effective and necessary for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u171	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, the parliamentary group of the "For the Future" political party. Of course, as a major deputy, I did not support the decision on the establishment and liquidation of the districts since 17.07.2020. Because I don't understand how Montenegro, the second-largest area in Ukraine, was divided into five districts, such as the Kharkiv region into seven districts. But the fact remains, and the existing local courts continue to exercise their authority within the predetermined areas. So we really need to support this bill, because it's aimed at creating a transitional mechanism for the execution of justice in the context of a new list of areas. And there are some technical legal observations. But I think you can fix them by the second reading. That's why the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u172	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Knjazevic Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u174	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, what's this law about? This law is the result of your administrative reform. That's what you've led us to. Inadvertently, totally unprofessionally, there was an irresponsible approach to such a fundamental decision as the elimination of areas in Ukraine. You didn't think that there were circuit courts in these areas, for example. It's just that nobody even thought about it. I'm not talking about other organs that, by the way, have to decide what to do with them. It's also the prosecutor's office, the authorities of the National Police, and so on and so forth. But now what do we have? The committee and the national MPs are somehow forced to step out of the situation right now and introduce this bill, for which they are grateful, but this bill does not solve the issue in fact. We have to ask the President to pass the Law on the Elimination of Courts. So it is his responsibility. He had to immediately put in a package with the proposals he made after the administration, make these proposals. He forgot about them, he doesn't care about them. He may not even know about them. Dear colleagues, we have not voted in favour of the process itself, as we do, completely unconstitutional and irresponsible -- the liquidation of the areas, and in the elections we have seen the results of this kind of irresponsible action. Such steps will continue. Because it's a subversive, we're only going to continue their activities for one year. But who will these judges be? These are local courts in areas that do not exist. Perhaps the price of sin will be the price of such vessels. And there will be a huge number of problems. It's going to be, you'll see, a huge number of people won't know where to go. We're just confusing them, we're going to give birth to the principle of legal uncertainty at the district and population level, where people aren't as educated and legal literate as we are here in Kiev. And we have, by the way, in Kiev, unfortunately, it shows that every year there's legal degradation. Friends, such steps, unfortunately, as I am, are absolutely necessary right now. But we won't vote for them, because we definitely don't want these actions that you've done to cause these steps. Because as a temporary phenomenon, of course, we understand what we have to do, but I'm afraid it's going to turn out to be, you don't know how much, into long-term absolute chaos.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u176	Thank you. The motive is Papiev, Vlasenko. He was. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, then Vlasenko. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u177	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Our faction will have to support this bill because we need to preserve the jurisdiction of the courts in order for Ukrainian citizens to be able to decide their cases and so that we can defend the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. But I'm primarily addressing the ruling party and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have a vote count coming up. Once the decision on the selection of new units of district councils, territorial communities, district councils is approved, you are in the area, and I guarantee you, in December, you will face a huge problem that the budget manager at the district level is the old districts. You will no longer have them legally, new warehouses of new councils will be approved, and in December you will have to pay the salaries of budget workers. Tell me, please, who will sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u178	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u179	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today's bill is the result of a completely irresponsible, completely unconstitutional legislative work of majority in the session room. Initially, in an unconstitutional form, the Order on the Disposal of Areas and the Creation of New Areas was adopted, and then the issue of courts was not considered. Here the previous colleague spoke and said that he did not know but knew. From the rostrum of this Council at the time of the adoption of the Order on the Elimination and Creation of the Motherland Areas, she talked about what the question with the courts was, it was, but then nobody wanted to listen, then they were dealing with their questions and cases. Then they decided on some of their "hotels," because before the election, they had to get this structure so that they thought they were going to get good results in the election. Tell me, please, who will blame you? Once again, the Constitutional Court will blame you for adopting unconstitutional laws, and then you don't know what to do with it? Then who's to blame? Accept the right laws, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u180	Ready to vote? The committee offered as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine, to adopt a law amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (elimination) of areas (registration No. 3025a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Wait, stop the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:19:39]] For 257 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine before the adoption of a law amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (accounting) of areas (registration No. 3025a). Please support and vote. [[14:20:22]] For 256 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare to prevent the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3890). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:21:00]] For 229 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend. Vote? No discussion? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (COVID-19) (registration No. 3890). Please support and vote. [[14:21:48]] For 251 Decision taken. Shorten lines? I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the reduction of the half-time of preparation for the second reading and granting of rights and proposals. Please support and vote. [[14:22:29]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next question is the bill. There's no report, is there? Is Ivanshchenko the Deputy Minister of Health? Then it's suggested that question 3965 be considered a little bit later, and now let's move on to the next one. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm stuck in traffic. He'll come, we'll ask. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 3948). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:23:48]] For 215 Decision taken. Deputy Health Minister Ivashchenko Igor Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the draft law is designed to ensure that Ukrainian citizens are provided with safe and high-quality medical supplies, as well as taking into account the existing low level of administrative responsibility for violating legislation in the field of the circulation of medical devices, namely, the sale of medicinal products by pharmacies without a prescription in cases where this is prohibited by law, the introduction into circulation and implementation of products that do not meet the standards, performance, provision of services that do not meet the standards, standards and rules, and failure to meet the legal requirements of the central executive authority in the field of the implementation of public policy for quality and safety of medical devices. To date, the responsibility for the above violations provided for by the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences does not work fully, including for the reason that the amount of fines imposed does not correspond to the quantity of non-quality products placed on the market. Thus, fines for some types of infringements amount to only 17 or 360 dollars. The draft Law therefore proposes to improve the legal regulation of State quality control of medical devices, as well as to increase the penalties provided for in the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The adoption and implementation of this law will not only contribute to the control of the State over the circulation of non-quality products, but will also aim to ensure that our citizens are provided with safe medicines and reduce their cost of treatment, as the adoption of this law will reduce the risk of using inefficient medicines. I would also like to point out that it is very important to adopt this bill in order to reduce cases of irrational and untargeted leave by medical institutions, i.e. without a prescription in cases where this is prohibited by law, also to reduce cases of self-medication of our citizens, which is now very important and will, of course, further harmonise our domestic regulatory base to the requirements of European international.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u182	Thank you, Igor Anatolyovich. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Denis Anatolyovich Monastirski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u183	Honorary colleagues, a law - enforcement committee, have considered the bill. He's one of many who's reviewing and increasing sanctions in the field of drug sales, which are now quite relevant. Of course, I agree with the view that sanctions should be viewed in a comprehensive manner. In this case, it only applies to one case, a case of drug sales. But agree that if the sale of medical supplies in drugstores in banned cases contains a responsibility of 100 dollars today, of course, this responsibility will not be effective. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the position of the committee is and remains that not increasing automatic sanctions is the solution and achievement of the goal of efficiency of legislation, and above all the government's management steps. And here I want to go from Parliament to the government, and of course, these bills have space and review of sanctions, but first of all, they have to be clear management steps, which are the end of which is already the lifting of sanctions in such cases. The committee reviewed the bill and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u184	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Dear colleagues, no, we can bet. Is that right? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP of the Party "For the Future". Please let him pass the word. I understand, please, Ruddick.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u185	Respectable colleagues, fines for selling inconvenient drugs, and the provision of inadequacies in medical care are, of course, partially effective. But the sum itself, the increase is just a small fraction of the big problem. We've calculated that in Ukraine, for the 18th year, there's statistics like this, there's over 23,000 points of sales of drugs, there's 23,000. Do you know how many fines have been imposed? Just 7, out of 23,000, think about it, just 7. I mean, if we raise the fines now, we're counting on everyone to immediately go to law enforcement, but this code will not apply to violators, it'll unfortunately only shoot away. Another problem that is not addressed by this bill is, unfortunately, the problem is that there are no such items in many rural areas at all. I've just gone through practically all of Cherkaščina in the local elections, one of the three key issues people are asking at meetings, is that there are no pharmacies at all. Unfortunately, it's not possible to solve this within this bill, but we have to make sure that it's done, because there's not what's being sold, there's actually going to be products from under the field and we have to count on what they should be according to the standards, it's not going to work. I also propose that the parliamentary group "For the Future" support this bill in the first reading and in the second reading to work out a series on the issues mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u186	Thank you, Sergey Jaroslavovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u188	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u189	Thank you. This government bill proposes to increase fines for both the sale of non-prescription drugs and the placing in circulation or implementation of products that do not meet the standards by performing services to consumer citizens. This is very important because in many recent years, and in principle, this issue has never been resolved, there has always been a problem with the sale of drugs without prescriptions, including the quality of these drugs. Including GNEU, statistics are provided. In 2018, there were 23,000 pharmacies and pharmacy kiosks in Ukraine, but only seven fines were issued this year. We're going to support this bill in the first reading, but we also want to emphasize that it is very important that the punishment is irreparable, because you can increase fines many times, but when there is no responsibility, and there will be no result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u190	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u191	Honorable colleagues, the eternal discussion on what ways should be in the fight against certain or other negative phenomena. Today, when it was said that a really big problem for the state as a whole is the existence of a modern-day power system that will ensure the sale of medical supplies, medicines in the necessary conditions, especially in rural areas. So, of course, both the central executives, and the local self-government, and business representatives need to work together on this issue. However, we cannot fail to recognize that today's current system of punishment for the implementation of drugs in inappropriate conditions does not respond to economic realities. Those who break the law need to understand that they will be responsible. That's why our trust MP group, just like the law enforcement committee, stands in the position that the bill needs to be supported today. I agree with my colleagues, until the second reading, we can settle certain issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, please the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Opposition to power - opposition must always benefit one subject and beneficiary, our citizens, the people of Ukraine. These are the kind of people you'd like to serve. This bill also protects the health and life of our citizens. And you see, the opposition that takes the principle of voting for the power initiatives that go against the interests of our citizens will always unite and support those laws that will actually serve our citizens. This law is one of them. I am already silent that, with a similar initiative, opposition took place in March of this year. It's a good thing it took more than six months to get there. But the responsibility for the illegal use of drugs without prescription in an undetermined legal order, and even when it's a banal forgery, when one thinks that he's going to get drugs, and that's just a small one at best, there's bound to be punishment for it. But we believe that the fines offered are certainly on the basis of administrative misconduct and administrative responsibility will be established. We firmly believe that when it comes to the health of our citizens, there must be criminal responsibility. Today, it is only in case of severe consequences. I believe that loving intervention on the health and life of citizens should be punishable by criminal responsibility. We support this law today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u195	Alexander Yuriovna Ustinov? It's a motive. After that, please invite the national deputies to the hall and proceed to the vote. Turn on the mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we hear a lot about the counterfeiting of drugs, the unreceptive dispensation of them in pharmacies. That's not what this law is about. Read the text of the bill yourself. Another bill on counterfeiting was passed. This bill is about making it possible to write more fines and actually make money to the controllers on these fines. The main point why this bill is adopted is to increase fines to almost 10,000 dollars for, quote, "implementing the legal requirements of officials of the central executive authority that implements policies in the field of quality control and safety of medical devices." All they want is to raise their earnings. So I'm very much asking you not to support this bill. We're fighting people with fines now. And we have to fight those controllers who make bribes. And prescriptions can be managed in a calm manner by electronic prescriptions that the Ministry of Health should have been running for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u197	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, this is exactly the option when it seems a good decision can be made in hell. Do you have any idea what's going on with the cadaver, and how can you write them out in order to get to a doctor first? Next comes the situation: How do you get to a narrow specialist? So I think now that this bill is being introduced, it's just raising bribe rates that will be taken from the pharmacy kiosks. Let's do everything we can to set up the system first when we can go to a family doctor, then to a narrow specialist. And it's not like we're going to be able to hold on to weedy patients for hours now when they can't get there. And then they can't take the right medication in the pharmacies. Let's not play with that. The faction won't vote for it. The fines that are now are enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u199	Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 3948). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:39:51]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 3948). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:40:30.]] For 244 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Renamement of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities (registration number 3965). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:41:14]] For 226 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. Vitalia Volodymyrovich, I'll only ask you next time not to be late. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u200	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Renamement of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities has been developed by the Ministry of Health. The bill is designed to bring the name of the Social Protection Fund into compliance with the Ukrainian Act on Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the Rename of the Social Protection Fund, replacing its name with the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities. Furthermore, it is also proposed to change the application of the terminology of "disability" to the terminology of "persons with disabilities" in order to bring it to the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u201	The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, this bill is one of a number of bills that corrects the terminology but a rather important position when we replace the word "disability", "disability children" by the term "persons with disabilities", "children with disabilities" according to the convention ratified by Ukraine, and generally accepted terminology. The Professional Committee has considered the bill to bring terminology into line with legislation and proposes to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law for one vote. Please support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u203	Please write down: two in, two against the MP factions and groups. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u204	Please give me the word Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u205	Who? Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u206	Thank you. Colleagues, it's a purely technical bill, it's very important to people with disabilities, because we really need to bring names into line with European legislation. But I would also like to point out at the same time that, of course, our concern for people with disabilities should not remain at the same level as our concern for names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u207	Thank you. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u208	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! In fact, the bill is important but purely technical. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Social Policy is still more actively working now to form a budget project for the next year on the protection of people with disabilities, children with disabilities, and this should be a priority. I'd like to pay attention to one more thing, how the order of the day is formed. The Fatherland faction has launched 83 legislative initiatives that have been officially established in accordance with the established order. There were only two of them who entered and placed in the order of the day. We believe that among those 81 who have not entered the agenda are extremely important issues that require settlement, and civil society awaits them. With regard to this bill, the "Paternity" faction supports and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u209	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to Mother Gregory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u211	Gregory Mama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill is not technical. This bill essentially brings about the normalization of logic and the normalization of terminology by law. We have nothing to discuss here. You have to make decisions, you have to vote. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill. Let's put it to a vote and essentially move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u213	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u214	Mr. Chairman, I would like to address you and ask that there be conditions in the room for all deputies who speak and who participate in the discussions to have this opportunity. Thank you. The "Trust" MP also points out that, unfortunately, the agenda is not always covered by legislation that deals with the social protection of citizens and that is sometimes delayed for a time long enough to consider, including with regard to citizens who have suffered from an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, persons with disabilities, and so on. That's why we certainly support our colleagues, that these are very important bills, and this bill will be fully supported by the "Trust" MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u215	I didn't quite understand the beginning of your speech, Vladimir Yuriovich. I think there's always a chance for you to speak. There's a rostrum, there's definitely an exit, there's a wish, Vladimir Yuriovich. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Then let us proceed to the vote, please invite the people’s deputies to the hall. But, dear colleagues, please do sit down because your colleagues are not visible. Could you turn on the mic, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, in fact, the term for which we change the Social Protection Fund is not exactly what is used in a civilized world. It's much better than "disability," as we still call it in the Code of Administrative Offences, but it's far from the other terminology that I think is more tolerant of explaining the state of the people who are in this situation. People with limited capabilities, people with special capabilities, we need to explain to society, using even that technical bill that we recognize that these harsh post-Radians and Soviet forms of naming people do not match today's state of affairs. Of course, the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour and invite all colleagues to vote. But we start treating people with disabilities differently.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u217	Thank you. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. It is proposed that this law be passed on as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Renamement of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities (registration No. 3965). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:50:22]] For 295 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Renamement of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation on the social protection of persons with disabilities (registration No. 3965). Please support and vote. [[14:51:04]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have an offer, we have only seven left. Wait, but we like your mood. 3375 is a technical bill, let the author speak, and we will be able to vote on the basis as a whole. Come on, the author is the Ukrainian National Deputy Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Judicial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u218	It takes longer to read the name, so to speak. The bill as one of the six bills replaces the words "crime" with "crime" according to the introduction of criminal offences that took place in July. Therefore, I would like to vote and support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, since there are suggestions from the committee, Dmitry Andriyovich will now make a statement to the committee, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u220	Thank you. Colleagues, very fast. The Committee on Economic Development has indeed considered and supported the adoption of this bill on the basis and, in general, provided that part of the second bill is drafted as follows: "2. This law takes effect from the day of its publication." And to clarify the title of the bill, namely, to amend article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement in connection with the adoption of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences. So it is proposed to adopt Bill 3375 as a basis and in general, taking into account the above-mentioned specific proposals of the committee, as a law with appropriate technical and legal processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-03-m0.u221	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Judicial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3375). Please support and vote. [[14:53:38]] For 288 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement in relation to the adoption of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3375). Please support and vote. [[14:54:17]] For 284 Decision taken. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, Your Honor.
