ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. As usual, I remind you that registration takes place by pressing the green button, or the first one on the left. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:10:41]] There are 269 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Hello! Health, success in both political and other ways. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes of presentations from MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up the MP factions and groups for the performance. Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Today we have such an interim day: today we must consider Bill 4228. I want to point out that it's not a local election move, it's really a battle against the coronavirus. This is a very important question, because the number of people who are sick can soon go beyond what we have in the Ministry of Health, in clinics, in hospitals, and we can get into chaos, into issues. So I ask you today to support this important determination because people are waiting for us, looking at us, and looking for us to do something for them, some help. We will also hear President Vladimir Zelensky's address today. And so this is a very important question for us. As a member of the "Serial of the People" faction, I want to see the course of the President. We must determine who we are, where we are going, and what lies ahead. Because what happens in the "Serial of the People" faction: one goes south, the other goes east. And the dissension in the faction must be stopped. We need to see what's going on. And the President, as the person who assembled our team, should tell us where we're heading. If we have such MPs as "redliners," or "sorts", or others who constantly draw red lines for President Donbas, they should either go with the President, or get out of the faction and into other factions, or create their own. Because what is being done is no longer possible. People don't know who the "greens" are, who are the "ministers of the people" and who are the servants of the people, and who are the servants of the oligarchs or other political powers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u3	Anna Constantine's speedboat. Igor Petrovich's staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to begin my speech by addressing the "Serial of the People" faction in the first place. Today, the President of Ukraine will address us. We have heard with you a week ago that the President of Ukraine wants to talk to the people directly, ask 5 questions, because Parliament is not dealing with the role that is in Parliament, because Parliament does not vote in favour of laws that allow the President to communicate directly with the people, because Parliament -- and today, my dear "servants" in Parliament is the majority of yours -- is not who wants the people. Today, trust in Parliament is 8 percent, trust in the government is 6 percent, trust in the President is 40 percent. It's been a year since Parliament. You're first and sometimes we're voting with you for laws that come 99 percent from the President's Office. For the first six months, you supported all the laws because you believed that the President's Office couldn't give bad bills, and they only bring happiness to people. And then you started to figure it out, and you stopped voting for any trouble coming out of the President's Office. You've realized that this year's workload on business has only increased, and the rights of law enforcement have also increased. I have a request: let's become members of the Supreme Council with you, let us vote with you for what the people really need, not for who brings us from the President's Office. Because you're bad, and everyone else, the President's Office, is good, and people don't understand what the difference is. Let's give people a chance to see that we have a parliamentary republic and we work for the people of Ukraine. We don't have much time, friends. We're just being used, then they say you're guilty, they're going to melt and go further, and they're going to retire from the parliamentary rostrum. I also have an appeal to this Supreme Council. Today, Ukrainians are dying from the Coronavirus. In six months, the Cabinet of Ministers did nothing. During a six - year period, 35 billion people went on the road from the cod fund. Okay. Where's 30 billion? Money is not in use, so today (we checked yesterday) there is no contract for the purchase of computer scanners. Today in Ukraine, including Kiev, Odessa, Kharkiv, a series of computer tests of 6, 7 days, 8 days, and 9 days. Statistics don't match reality. Yesterday, the president told religious representatives that if there were nine and a half thousand, the country would go to the Lokdown. Today, we have more than nine thousand if the tests were correct, not bought, or stolen. I'm talking to you. We should draw conclusions on the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the Ministry of Health. We collected half a million signatures in two weeks for the release of Stepanov. The Ukrainians are dying because of them, and all the responsibility lies with you and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u5	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u6	Sergey Shahov, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I do not believe in coincidences, especially those that are open to individuals, officials, politicians, and oligarchic forces. For example, a catastrophic fire, a second fire in the Lugansk region, covered by a governor killer. I have repeatedly addressed the President of Ukraine with a check today and an audit of the forests and budgets that are being looted entirely by everyone living in a peaceful Ukraine. I've been talking to the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, and there's been a complete robbery on Donbas today. On more than one occasion, I turned away from the positions of these bastards, who burned people alive and did not warn people that there might be such a disaster. Secondly, I don't just believe in coincidences when first the green zone and then the red zone right before the election. Why does the MOH today intimidate people? If people are shocked today and can't come and vote, but there's a point that a green woman can come and vote for some kind of narcotic raw material. Please tell me, how can a person today be intimidated by his constitutional rights? How is the MlH going to be responsible today for all the money we've been spending here, and that's over 70 billion dollars? Where did the money go? Who are sending tests at the hospital today, and why are there no free tests today? Why is there no test of the antibodies of every Ukrainian under 49 articles of the Constitution -- social guarantees? Why do people today go and use their hard - earned money, years of earning, cutting their hands to blood, and not being able to feed their families today, but having to pay for tests, and yet the money has been allocated? Let the minister of health tell us where the COVID funds were shared. Why is COVID now used on unknown roads and also looted on roads? We were told there would be jobs today. Where are these jobs? Why Are Turks Working Today? Why are foreign companies working today rather than working in Ukraine? Who today will be responsible for the destruction and genocide of the Ukrainian people? Who will be responsible today for the destruction of the Ukrainians who have chosen each of us today who have entrusted each of us today with normal work in parliament? Today, none of the Ukrainians have spoken a better word about Parliament. Let's take it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u7	Zinkevich Anna Vadimovna Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention once again to the so-called poll that President Greensky and today's authorities want to conduct. First of all, it's unconstitutional because the President doesn't have that kind of authority. Secondly, it is contrary to current legislation, and we, parliamentarians, have already proved it by our vote in this session room. Thirdly, it has nothing to do with the real mind of people, and sociologists have proved it more than once. So what is it? And it's very simple: President Zelensky, "ministers of the people", today's authorities are simply trying to save their political power rating, their power rating before the elections. But believe me, people aren't that naive anymore, and they won't go on the 95-quarter scenario anymore. The "minister of the people" in the next local election awaits defeat. The circus during the plague is how people today talk about what you want to do in the next election. Because in a year and a half, you have led the country to poverty, and in a year and a half you have not reformed. And you want to get organized today into the so-called White Brotherhood, as people call you. Because you want to dress people up in white robes, give them, poor people, a thousand 200 dollars of wages, and carry out a campaign in front of the polling stations. You can't do anything like that: finita la comedy -- that's how you can call that action that's happening in the state today. And the people will no longer believe you. Because one thing that needs to be said today is, above all, the failure of the fight against the coronavirus. Because at the beginning you sold out all the masks, you made loud statements about how you're going to fight the coronavirus, you actually blew up a hedge fund that you don't know where. You haven't bought any artificial lung ventilation equipment, and most importantly, you've lost people's trust and support today. Because today it is clear that neither the President nor the authorities nor the "ministers of the people" in Parliament have met the challenges facing the country. Today, it is very clear that you do not know or know how to do anything. And today comes the end of the age of trust in you. Today, you cannot answer Ukrainians with what to do with education, health care, and local self - government. This election is going to be a start.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u9	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u11	Another Romanovna? Inni Romanovni Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u12	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! In just a few days, we will all vote in the local elections. And local elections are important, especially because of decentralization. Now decentralization will take place in places that depend on our lives. But now, instead of discussing the best development strategies for cities, instead of discussing decentralization, we're talking about one thing: we're talking about a survey that President Zelenski decided to do. A survey that none of you, including members of the "Serial of the People" faction, knew for two weeks. A survey that the President is not authorized to conduct, the President has no authority to conduct surveys. And the main thing is a survey where we still don't know who or how the results of this survey are going to be counted. We are convinced that it is right to hear the opinion of the people. The president says it's about the people. But I'm going to tell you that the people of the country aren't going to answer the questions that someone wrote at the President's Office. The people's government is primarily about being able to ask questions. And maybe the President doesn't hear the questions that the Ukrainians are asking right now, but when we talk to the citizens in the regions, we hear these questions. And now we've come out here as a whole to show President Zelenski the issues that really concern Ukrainian citizens. Ukrainian citizens ask, "Please tell me, in the spring of what year will they finally plant?" It's spring two. We don't have anyone to plant yet. Instead, we see that the vice presidents take bribes, we see that the President's chiefs are working to get someone to work for money. We see that corruption is a sign of new power. So when do you start planting? "When do you start planting?"," asked Ukrainian citizens. The second question that citizens ask is, "Who should I call when the police kill?" This question has already become half - rhetorical. We do not see President Zelensky hearing citizens' questions and responding, including the release of powerful Minister Habakkuk. The third question is, "Who's "who's "who's Why is the authorities so afraid to create a TSC right now to investigate this issue if there was nothing there? Do not be afraid, citizens, if nothing has happened, the investigation of an honest TSC will show. The fourth question the citizens ask is, "Why did they stop shooting and the war didn't end?" I really know the answer to that question: Because nobody stopped shooting, they kept shooting. And the desire for peace in Putin's eyes still sees only President Zelensky. And the last question is, "Who's doing the whiny money on the road?" Why is Ukraine 110th in the world at one millionth of a population? Why can we still not solve this problem? These questions are now being asked by Ukrainian citizens, President Zelenski. And I hope, speaking here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u13	Valentin Aleksandrovich, please. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that the election is of course important, it is a democracy. And the fact that elections are being held all day today from the rostrum may make sense. But, at the same time, I believe that all of you at this point are among people and with people, and you can't help but see what's going on there. You can’t help but notice that a person who has become sick today has no idea where to turn, he can’t call his family’s doctors, because family doctors are sick, or they’re just loaded with work. You can't help but notice the queues that are at the hospital today and people can't get to the hospital. You can't help but notice the state of medicine today: they're tired, they're exhausted, they're on the verge of their ability right now, and they're on the verge of getting paid. 300 percent of the salary is almost nowhere to be paid in full. I also want to tell you that the wave that we have right now on the Coronavirus is because sick people are all on the streets, in hospitals, in labs are being tested in urban transport. And now it's planned for sick people to be on the street, and people are healthy -- a little bit more -- and they're going to quarantine. We need to put it all in our place. You can't help but know that we occasionally occupy 9-10 places in the world at the same rate of mortality. Every 15 minutes in our country, a person dies from COVID. And if we don't take immediate, extraordinary action now, we just can't stop the tsunami epidemic that's coming upon us right now. And so I want to thank all the factions, all the deputies, the committee for working with you in the last few days, a draft decision that gives the government a clear algorithm of action that needs to be done, from A to I listed everything. And today, instead of being critical, we join you in accepting Decree 4228 and actually saving the country. Today, our country needs our unity, our help, our understanding of the situation, and our immediate professional activities. I hope that this decision will be adopted today, and we will give the people and the medics and the country a chance. Thank you all for working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u15	The word is given to the national deputy of Burmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u16	Please give the word to Alexander Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u17	Please. Alexander Kaczyny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, there will be an important event this week – the election of local councils. This event can give a powerful assessment to today’s authorities, its activities over the past 1.5 years. And what does the authorities do to make these elections democratic? First, a decision is taken that prevents elections to the Lugansk and Donetsk district councils. Then a decision is taken that makes it impossible for the election in 18 regional communities to hold elections to the Supreme Council and the election of the President. And that's not enough. The government, through sub-territorial electoral commissions, is not allowing the entire list of "The Opposition Platform for Life" to register candidates in measure, such candidates who can actually win these elections today. Dear colleagues, I think that each of us today should really draw conclusions, and those promises that have been constantly echoed by today’s authorities continue to turn into others. This is today's survey, which is planned to be done on the electoral commission's premises, first of all, it's outside the legislative framework, so it can't be funded from the budget. And we have questions. First, who finances these forms? Who finances the supply of these forms throughout the country? Who is financing the rental of the premises, and what will be the accommodations in which they will count? Who are these people, and where will they receive the wages that will account for these forms? Colleagues, today the country really faces a serious choice. "The Opposition Platform for Life" is everything she promised in the election to the Supreme Council, in the election of the President, will be put into effect after the election of the local councils. We're talking, really, about peace, we're talking about municipal tariffs, we're talking about corruption, and we're going to do everything we can to get the victory on local councils to break the back of today's government, which continues to be a policy of corruption, unfair prices for utilities, and certainly nothing is moving towards peace. Dear colleagues, I want to support all those who are now behind the victory of our party. Thank you all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. And I would like to inform you that the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Also attending the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of central executive bodies, leaders of the judiciary branch of power, representatives of officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve, representatives of the media, heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states, other officials. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 85, part one, paragraph 8, of the Constitution of Ukraine, hears a message from the President of Ukraine about the internal and external situation of Ukraine. Today, according to article 106, part one, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u20	Dear people! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Mr. Golovo, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, the President's Office, honorary judges, representatives of the diplomatic corps, your blessings, distinguished journalists! In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I am addressing the message on the internal and external status of Ukraine. And this official beginning will be the only one associated with previous messages from the Presidents of Ukraine. It's time to change traditions. Previously, the MPs were given a huge Talmud that they weren't going to read and the President wasn't going to do. According to the QR code in front of you, you can load this message. For those who do not know or think that it is part of Bill Gates’ plan to touch the population, the message will appear on the official website of the Office of the President of Ukraine. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to invite from every area of Ukraine military, medicine, teachers, students, young families, pensioners, civil servants, entrepreneurs, scientists, artists, athletes and to report on what has been done and to present plans for the future to the people who hired me for five years. [[Applause]] I'm happy to do it today. The basis of my report is logical, but it's not typical, because it's usually this document that presidents choose not to mention after winning -- it's the President's electoral program. With the citizens of Ukraine today, we will discuss a few very important questions: what I promised, what I had done, what I had not done, what I had done, what I had done, what I had done, and what I had done. It won't take much time to get a detailed analysis of the country that we inherited in 2019. This was seen and known by all Ukrainians and many in this room. In previous years, each party, apart from the "Slut of the People" party, had in its ranks either the former president or twice the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry, extraordinary situations, economic development, social policy, the Deputy Minister of Education and Science and Health. Today, they are actively giving advice on how to overcome corruption, boost economics and medicine, build roads, and achieve peace in Ukraine. Let's leave it in parentheses to ask why they didn't do it themselves. We'd better talk about what we're going to do tomorrow. Let's start with a topic that wasn't on my or any other program that no one thought about in Ukraine or in the whole world is COVID-19. As it spreads, we've taken hard and effective measures, we've chosen between two scenarios: bad and worse: a quarantine impact on the economy or a huge number of patients and the dead. Of course, we chose the first option. The lives of thousands of Ukrainians have been saved, and the time has been very valuable, for even the medical systems of the world’s most successful countries were not ready for the coronavirus, but our medicine is. The lab system was destroyed, and there were as many as five in Ukraine. Now it's ten times more. We've restored the verticals of state health doctors. And if anyone thinks that there were full shelves waiting for us in the state reserve, I'm disappointed that the masks were last purchased in 2007 and their expiration date is long overdue. We quickly overcame the deficit, initially organized supplies from China and South Korea: masks, tests, disinfectors, costumes, HPV devices, and then developed and constructed large-scale Ukrainian production. We've raised wages for doctors who are opposed to COVID-19 to 300 percent. [[Applause]] Yes, because of the imperfections of the bureaucratic system with payments in the regions there were difficulties, but they are in the past. Clinical trials of Ukrainian drugs are under way to minimize the risk of complications and death from COVID. We made it through the first stage and went through it with minimal losses. Yes, there's a projected economic and GDP decline, but it's affected all over the world. And in comparison to many European countries, our decline is lower than that of COVID. Germany - 4 percent, France - 9 percent, Britain - 11 percent, Ukraine - 1.9 percent. We're not happy and we're sorry for others, and we don't have the right to relax anymore, and the COVID-19 opposition is going on. Records of the number of patients are recorded in the world every day, unfortunately, Ukraine is no exception. Adaptive quarantine and less stringent security measures were necessary to restore the economy of Ukraine, but this does not cancel the basic rules. I want to go to all of Ukraine's citizens right now who, despite the terrible daily numbers, either don't wear masks at all, or they do it for a stick. The mask on your face is the safety of other people. This is also true of the deputies. It is clear that local elections are also making adjustments. The local authorities want to like the voters, sabotage the government's decision, and perform thousands of concerts on the day of the city -- it's a game of "evil cop" in the capital and "good" in places. Know that the number of votes for you in your region may be higher, but the number of sick and dead will be on your conscience. Anyway, I believe we're gonna get through this. We have already discussed with our European partners the supply of a vaccine to Ukraine as soon as it appears. We have incredible doctors and everyone else who opposes the coronavirus. Let's give them a round of applause. [[Applause]] Thank them! The important thing is to be grouped. We have repeatedly argued that when Ukrainians are grouped together, they can overcome any virus, although from China, even from the northern neighbour. We'll remember 2020 for a long time, it's brought Ukraine many of the disasters that we've experienced with you: COVID-19, the crash of our plane in Iran, the massive forest fires, the floods in Western Ukraine, the drought in the south, the plane crash with military pilots and classmates. We need to draw the right conclusions and become stronger, to prevent threats from overcoming the consequences, to introduce new philosophy. A country that's always ready for anything or able to adapt quickly and counteract new threats, I'm going to present this principle today, even though it wasn't on my program. Let's get back to her, to the program. The point that wasn't the first, but most important to me, and I'm sure for all of you and all of the Ukrainians, is the end of the war on Donbass, the establishment of peace, the return of our people, the return of our territories. We have unlocked the norm process, which has been blocked since 2016, and managed to free and return 136 of our own. [[Applause]] These are our sailors, and this is Oleg of the Shadows, Eden of Bekirov, Alexander Kolchenko, Stanislav Asiev and many others. We fight for every Ukrainian, both military and civilian, and for me, man is the highest value. And every citizen should know that I am Ukrainian and my country will not leave me. The process of freeing our citizens is ongoing, and we remember all who are still in captivity and do all we can to bring them back. On July 27, a ceasefire was announced. Today the silence mode lasts 86 days in a row. [[Applause]] Longest in years of war. Is it perfect? No, it's not. Is there a violation? Yes. Is there any way to rip it off? Absolutely. But it has to be admitted that the number of shots has decreased significantly. In all these days, we have one battle loss. It hurts! But what has arisen for days, weeks, and even months when we do not hide our heroes, when mothers and children do not cry gives us hope. When locals say they do not listen to the news of silence because they hear real silence, it gives hope. [[Applause]] The European Union, the United States, Canada, Britain, Turkey, and other partners continue to support Ukraine. Our diplomats are constantly working to prepare for the next Nordic summit in Berlin. We are looking forward to his more rapid movement to bring about the desired peace in Ukraine. We do not forget that both the Crimea and the occupied Donbassa are inhabited by our citizens, and we need to care for them, care for them, and fight for them. We restored the city and the road to the Luhansk station, and we settled the question of drinking water in Donbas. We're building new and comfortable modern KEVCs, especially at the Crimea border. The vastness that our citizens see in Ukraine, crossing the temporary border. We're doing everything they can to see it lighted, asphalted and comfortable. We fight for young people in these areas, for their minds. Since this year, children from Crimea and ORDLO have been able to enter all institutions of higher education in Ukraine and study there for free. [[Applause]] We really want people there to know the truth about Ukraine from Ukraine, not from Kiselov. We've launched the Home Channel, which is Crimea and Donbas. Clearly, we cannot have objective viewing numbers there, but the pressure of the Russian media’s constant criticism of this channel is that the matter is moving in the right direction. [[Applause]] I always invite all world leaders to visit not only Kiev, to visit Donetsk and Lugansk regions along with me. We've already done this with Donald Tusk, with the President of Switzerland, with OSCE Special Representative Martin Saidik, ambassadors of Germany and France in Ukraine. They see the real picture there and pass it on to our other partners. I'm so glad 120 deputies of the People's Party will be going to Donbas tomorrow. Not Turkey, not Maldives. The MPs will take the lead and hear about the situation there, not from social networks, but from our military and local residents. Peace in Donbas and the Crimea invasion are my key priorities. Unfortunately, you know, in the order of the day Normandy format, there was never a question of Crimea. But it was and is always, and will always be in our daily order. As long as Crimea remains occupied, Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars there face regular persecution, the world must not forget the Crimea. [[Applause]] You know, as much as you can fast happy meme on the security assurances of the Budapest Memorandum, it won't return our territory. We're looking for new tools to do this. The question of Crimea has been turned into an international order of the day. We create the Crimson Platform format, which is the coordination of international efforts to protect the rights of criminals and depopulation of the peninsula. I have already discussed this initiative with representatives of the European Union, Britain, Canada, Turkey, and other partners. Many of them are willing to join and participate actively in it. In addition, if the Ukrainian anthem is to be heard at Donbas Arena and our flag is to be placed on Crimea, we must adopt decisions that are approaching the invasion. All Ukrainians have the same understanding of what will happen after the liberation and return of our temporarily occupied territories. Once we reach peace, we will begin a safe reintegration, using successful international experience. It's a package of transitional laws, primarily about responsibility. There's a lot of manipulation here, let's stop now. The terrible word "amnesty" is not about everyone, not about avoiding responsibility, but about the millions of our citizens, whose hands are bloodless and who are actually themselves now in the hostage. They need a clear signal: don't be afraid, it's worth the future only with Ukraine. [[Applause]] Already in the free territories of Donetsk and Luhansk, we are building a new Donbas, a modern, safe, prosperous one. But to make such a region the most affected by Russian aggression requires special economic conditions. We need a strategy for the development of the economy of Donetsk and Lugansk, which will include tax and customs preferences, insurance for military and political risks for investors, arbitration under international standards. Work on it has already begun. In some ways, I emphasize that bringing about peace in Ukraine does not mean that we will stop caring for our army. On the contrary, only a modern and fighting army will guarantee further peace and security for Ukraine. [[Applause]] There were fairy tales in the army, scarecrows that Zelensky would destroy the army, all of them, and there are undeniable facts. In 2020, the military budget became the largest in the history of Ukraine. [[Applause]] During the time of the coronation, he did not fall into a bracelet. And please don't start by saying that in 2021 we're going to cut our military spending. That's impossible, so the budget hasn't been accepted yet, and so I'm not going to let that happen, at least this year's cost remain at the level of over 117 billion dollars, which is 15 billion more than in the running age of the army. [[Applause]] Yeah, it's true, we didn't have those kind of skirmishes, but we're strengthening the army in action. The United States Congress approved military assistance to Ukraine for $250 million. In Britain, we signed a deal of £1 billion 250 million to strengthen the Ukrainian naval fleet. [[Applause]] We've got and we're waiting for the extra speedboats of the Island class. Along with Turkey, we're going to produce corvettes, engines, and military drones, and we're going to develop PE systems. We started producing new weapons samples, a complex of artillery management, Obolon-A, a mortar complex called the Bars, artillery munitions, especially for reactive systems. The Wilha-M rocket system and the Typhoon missile system are being tested. There's a modernization of the Gethman Sagaidachni frigate and preparation for the tests of the Centaur landing boats. Amassed to arm an anti-ship cruise missile called Neptune. We're starting to build two state-owned Ukrainian naval bases to protect the Black Sea region. [[Applause]] We may be lying about our non-patriotic position, but for the first time since 2014, volunteers have been assigned to combat. [[Applause]] The foreigners who were protecting Ukraine were granted citizenship and Ukraine was granted citizenship! – status of NATO partner with extended capabilities. [[Applause]] We've moved Genstab to a typical structure of NATO member states, we've successfully conducted the Rapid Trident joint training, we're continuing the implementation of NATO standards and the compatibility of our armies with the Alliance's troops. But the most important thing that we have in our army is people, our fighters. And we're working to provide the best possible conditions for them and their families. [[Applause]] We're building a Ukrainian army that can protect Ukraine on land, in water, in air and in cyberspace so that no one else can even think that we can reach out to our sovereignty, reach out to our territorial integrity, or take away part of the territory in Ukraine without a single shot. That's never gonna happen. And those who give up Crimea without a fight must be held accountable. [[Applause]] I want to make it clear that the question is not about revenge, it's about justice. Society needs answers. And that's not just the question, they're actually piled up in thousands of people. Lack of answers and justice leads to a loss of confidence. It is not possible to build a successful country if society does not trust the state. Trust is not only about treating public authorities, but also about people's participation in solving problems and adopting decisions. That is why the important part of my program was the people of the land. This will restore citizens’ confidence in the state and its institutions. And by the way, it's not just Ukraine, it's also many other states. Thus, various instruments of government and direct democracy are becoming increasingly active. There are many successful examples of their use in Switzerland, Canada, Ireland. [[B in m in s a l in]] Go to Russia if you like. [[Applause]] Although the most successful you all know is December 1, 1991, when 28 million 804,000 and 71 Ukrainian citizens voted in favour of Ukraine's independence. Remembering this, strangely, when you say that it is dangerous to ask the Ukrainian opinion that people are being bullied because there are no free, independent media, free, independent media in the country. It's cynical what people in this room say. Party leaders, one of whom owns three channels and the other owns two. You're saying the Ukrainian people are immature, he's not ready to make decisions? But I would like to remind you that it was the Ukrainian people that made the two revolutions -- 2004 and 2014 -- which resulted in most of you being in this room. There will be a nation in Ukraine. All citizens' access to information for decision-making will be the responsibility of the state. People should influence the current issues both for their region and for the whole country. To do this once a week, once a month, I don't know, once a year, as long as it takes. The first bill for the people is prepared and submitted by me. I ask, I call on all the national MPs: finally, give the Ukrainians a real mechanism to form the basic tasks of power, to influence decisions, to feel their involvement in change, to feel that their opinion is not only important in elections. And that's fair. And justice and equality is the next item in my program. I promised to start with myself. There have been many attempts, but no President has been passed the Law on the impeachment of the President. We did it. Opponents say it's a fake and the law doesn't really work. But you said the same thing about removing the MP's immunity. Why, then, for the first time in Ukraine’s history, is a member of the predominant presidential party after publishing a video of the NABU in two days, and within a week, it finds itself in WHO? And I'm going to say to the mortgage settlement, read what I suggested in my program on this issue. Whatever it is, it's a historical precedent, and it's not the only one. What all the MPs promised for 28 years, we did in four months. [[Applause]] Deputies were removed. It's for pot-throwing. It's for pot-throwing. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay. Sit down. Let's move on. Calm down! Calm down! It's a criminal responsibility for buttons. For walks, fines. We've stripped the state funding of a party that didn't make it to the Council. And I'm proud that "Serve of the People" is the only party of the ninth call to give up this funding and give it up to fight the SOVID-19. [[Applause]] We adopted the Electoral Codex with open lists and eliminated the majority. There has been a complete relaunch of the political system. Today, there is no official in Ukraine who thinks he is untouchable or eternal, whatever, the head of the ODA, the Attorney General, the Prime Minister. There's no result. You're not in this position. Period. Because this is the philosophy of my next point, not a man for the state, but a state for man. This is a new format of relations between the state and the citizen, where the state is a service that is comfortable and understandable. That's why we're creating a smartphone state. Already 26 million Ukrainians can use the Dia plug-in and digital driver's license, a vehicle registration certificate, a smartphone-only passport, or get permission to build an electronic building in a construction site without an official's involvement. By staying away from the computer, registering a business in 15 minutes is faster than in most countries of the world. Young parents can use the e-Moletko service and receive services for one application in a maternity home or online. We became the first, the first! – a country in the world that has a digital passport that allows you to travel or even open a bank account online. And this is just the beginning of the journey to the digital state. 2021 will be the beginning of the country’s entry into paperless mode. No government agency will be able to require any information, extracts, or other documents from Ukrainians to obtain government services. Our goal for the coming years is 100 percent of government services online. And in the next presidential election, citizens should be able to vote on the Internet. The digital country is not only a convenient country, it's a country where bureaucracy and corruption become an unusual phenomenon, it's a powerful economic development, because the digital economy in the world is growing rapidly. A month ago, I signed a decree on favourable conditions for the development of the IT industry. Ukraine is already becoming a world-wide IT habe. And we're also creating a unique virtual economic zone in the world called Dia. A city with special taxes, financial and legal regimes. This project will ensure the development of creative business and foreign investment. Such ideas should unite Ukraine as well as the ideas that Ukrainians should live with dignity and wealth. To that end, we approve of laws that business, investors, and international partners have been waiting for a long time. My programme's tasks were: childishizing the economy, developing domestic production, available lending. Next on specific steps on this difficult path. We have eliminated the monopoly of the Crossspirt and brought this branch out of the shadows. Last week, the first liquor plant was privatized. We must continue this process, which is expected to increase the sentence almost eight times in the future. Thousands of underground casinos are closed all over the tap. The Act on Legalization of the Game Business has been passed. What has existed in the shadows for the next year, with the first licenses, is expected to bring $5 billion into the budget. Almost a thousand illegal fillers have been closed. In particular, the official AZS networks have reduced the price of gasoline. The National Bank of Ukraine’s accounting rate of 17 percent in April 2019 has been reduced to record 6 percent in history. What does that do? This is a mortgage, not under 25 percent, but under 10 percent or less in one year. Imagine her appearance. These are business loans, not below 20 percent, but below 5, 7, 9. By the way, less than a year, under 5-7-9, small and medium-sized businesses have already received over 10 billion dollars. The Act on Concession has been passed. There were contests from the Olivia and Harrison seaport concessions involving investors from Qatar, Georgia, Switzerland. We've started a huge privatization. Importantly, it was not strategic objects of the state, but it was hundreds of inefficient businesses where only corruption and debt were involved. Yesterday they brought damage to the state, and now they're billions. For example, the Dnipro Hotel. By the way, he and a number of other objects became the first property ever to be used by the President of Ukraine to be privatized. We've secured energy security and signed a new five-year contract with Gazprom for gas transit, and we've also received $3 billion from Stockholm Arbitration. We're starting a heating season with record gas and coal reserves. [[Applause]] From September 1, the minimum wage was increased to 5,000 dollars, in January 2021 it would be 6,000, in July - 6.5. There has been an indexation of pensions and an increase in pensions for older citizens. An additional 3 billion dollars are aimed at increasing pensions for people over 80 years of age, and the following year for people over 75 years of age. Our important promise and, without exaggeration, our historic decision is to launch a land market in Ukraine. [[Applause]] The huge opposition to this reform, manipulation and myths, the desire of politicians and individual businesses to preserve the Syrian market, where they stole 5 million hectares of land during this time. We have made this reform for the people. The right to purchase is granted only to Ukrainians, there is a limit on the maximum area owned by one person, and there is a limit on the benefits to Ukrainian farmers. And while politicians in one voice were convinced that we had taken the land from the Ukrainians, I signed a decree on the transfer of agricultural land from state to municipal property. Local self - government will own over 2 million acres [2 million ha] of land. These are land use funds that can be used for the development and welfare of their citizens. Obviously, the coronation didn't make an exception for Ukraine's economy, but all the crises are going to go away, and this one is going to go away, and we're going to get stronger. We tried to understand that it wasn't what was done in the management of the economy over the years and how to fix it. The government conducted a full audit of the state and presented its results within two weeks. But it's clear now that there's a lot of work ahead of us, and the priorities are clear: we need to cut down on the part of the state in the economy, we need to develop a state-private partnership. Our financial resources are limited. Yes, we cannot satisfy everyone, but we must help those who help others. These are high-multiplier projects that return investments through taxes and create new jobs. Tax on capital output and zero declaration -- enough endless discussions on this subject. It's time to put a dot on this, and I'm ready to do it. I entrust the government with taking these and other important directions into account. Above all, Ukraine needs a full development strategy not for two, three, five years to measure Ukraine’s development with political cadences. We need a clear vision of where and why our economy should be moving by 2030. I know that this work was carried out by the government. So, together with the results of our audit, our country's audit, we're looking forward to the presentation of the Ukrainian economic vectors by 2030. [[Applause]] In fact, you know, there's another direction that can and should fill the state budget of Ukraine -- it's an effective anti-corruption response. My program says, "It's not the fight against corruption, it's the victory over it." But there are suspicions that the law enforcement authorities have read the sentence to the end, and they take the first part as the task: "not the fight against corruption.".. I'll tell you the truth, I'm sick of it, we have zero tolerance for corruption. This is confirmed by our partners in the European Union, in the United States. But isn't it enough for the President not to steal from others? People say: "The spring has come. Where are the landings?".. Believe it or not, that's the question and the words that can't be said on television, and I'm starting every meeting with the heads of all our law enforcement agencies. Every time I remind them: all the conditions created, please, we have returned criminal responsibility for illegal enrichment, there is the possibility of confiscation of illegal assets, full operational independence of the NAB and the SAP, which has not been operational since 2015, launched the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court, reloaded the NAM. They said, "It's only the phone law and the lack of political will that interferes with us." The will is, there is no telephone right. Opponents claim that this is not the case. So tell me, where's the phone? Maybe that's the way it's going to work. Because now the legislative, the operational, the material, the psychological conditions are, and the real result is not yet. I have no right to interfere with your work, but I have the right to evaluate it. My grade is unsatisfactory, but I believe it can and should be corrected. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to focus on anti-corruption strategies for the next four years. Yes, over the years many strategies have been written, and they do not guarantee results. But I'm not going to calm down and prove to everyone that Ukraine without corruption is not a fantasy, it must be a reality. And I don't care how much it takes to change our heads of law enforcement, ministers and other leaders. The work of our judges is equally important. Yes, I agree with international partners on the need for judicial reform. But I'm sure no one needs reform just for the word "reform." During the years of independence, each new authority began reforming the judicial system. In summary, the government, both parliament and presidents in the country are changing and the judicial system remains. Objective, open - minded, just justice is unknown to citizens as if they were from a foreign background. We need changes, not rephrased opinions from previous options for judicial reform, but effective decisions. They're the ones I'm waiting for from the appropriate legal commission that was created at the President's Office. We need Ukraine, where there is no corruption, and there are fair courts. That's what all our citizens want. That's what all our international partners want. By the way, no matter what some might say or try to do, the international coalition continues to support Ukraine. What's more, it's going to a new level. We have preserved the two-storey support of the United States of America, Ukraine and Britain have officially become strategic partners, Ukraine and Turkey have entered an unprecedented level of relationship, a trusted partner, without exaggeration, an international brother for us remains Canada. and all experts note that this year's summit of Ukraine is the EU and a joint statement, whether or not it is the first time that they have highlighted the partnership between Ukraine and Europe. [[Applause]] Our successes include tangible progress in the implementation of the Association Agreement, all the preconditions for industrial non-cooperation, the Agreement on common aviation space with the EU, the deepening of the integration of Ukrainian markets with European markets, and a clear mandate: Ukraine's visa-free regime with Europe poses no threat to anyone who does not speak there. [[Applause]] This also applies to cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which we continue to do, as well as with the World Bank, as with the EBRD. Today we are actually rebuilding constructive dialogue and good neighbourly relations with Hungary, Romania, Poland. Together with Poland and Lithuania, we founded the Ljubljana Triangle, a platform for political, economic and social interaction. And it's an inconceivable, but truly important, victory in the world arena that I think is another fact: at the international level, the phrase "the world is tired of Ukraine" disappeared. We've given the image of our nation a new meaning, we've started looking at Ukraine in a new way, we've started to think of Ukraine as a constructive, reliable, and therefore, an equal player, as a country that appreciates all support and hopes for itself, because it understands that no one for us is going to make the transformation, no one for us is going to build a successful country. We've become proactive, and in this context, we should mark our initiative to create the headquarters of the International Office in Kiev against disinformation and propaganda. Ukraine has a real experience of such opposition. By the way, some of the people in the room are invited to join in the status of famous experts in creating fairy tales and misinformation. Let your experience really serve a little bit of the state. Dear friends, let's face it, COVID-19 has filled the entire space, but it's not the only challenge for the medical sector. Facebook, Instagram and my desk were filled with doctor requests for a second phase of medical reform. There was a risk of the release of 50,000 medics and the closure of more than 300 hospitals. Emergency medical care, multidisciplinary hospitals, cancer centers, veteran hospitals, most children’s hospitals, psychiatric and tuberculosis services were at risk. All of this was prevented, children’s doctors were prevented from going abroad, and there was a catastrophic increase in child mortality or a third increase in tuberculosis within the next two years. I know the subject of medical reform is causing a heated debate, I know. But let us admit the truth: this reform has both undeniable advantages and outright weaknesses. Our task is to preserve positive moments and correct all these mistakes, both patients and doctors of all levels should be satisfied with the reform. In addition, I look forward to a professional committee and ministry of insurance models that could finally appear in Ukraine. I want to celebrate the creation and development of the transplant system. For the next 2-3 years, a network of transplant centers will work, which will save many Ukrainian lives without having to do expensive operations elsewhere. More expensive is the increase in medical pay. Since September 1, this has been done by 25, 50, and 70 percent. This is just the beginning. According to the plan of the Ministry of Health in 2021, the doctor's minimum salary should be between 20 and 25,000 dollars, and the nurse should be 15,000 dollars, and the younger medical staff should be up to 10 to 12,000 dollars. Convinced that the next must be the educated and our scientists. There is one characteristic thing that unites all successful countries today. At the beginning of their journey, they all invested in education, all the countries that gave it strategic importance. Today we are trying to move in the same way, in parallel to solving the problems that exist in all the chains of Ukrainian education. This is the availability and quality of kindergartens, the promotion of the prestige of a professional teacher and wages, the creation of modern infrastructure -- new gardens and schools. We have begun the restoration of vocational and technical education, which has been destroyed for the last 20 years, even though skilled workers are now in great need of countries. We pay special attention to higher education. It has to prepare competitive professionals in today's world that match the trends of our economy and the world economy. And of course, science, which is always the driver for innovation, the driver for innovation and the economy. The development of scientific research infrastructure and the support of talented Ukrainian scientists should become a priority for the state. Education and science is a field where the result is not quick, but it is, in the end, decisive. And yet, where the result, on the contrary, is noticeable pretty quickly, there's everyone. We started "The Great Building" to implement the "Comfort Country" site. And it's not a simple name for another state program. Everyone can see that there is really a big construction in the country. We sew Ukraine not only with ideas but also with words but also with roads and bridges. This year, it is 4,000 km of public roads; 2,000 local schools; 100 schools, 100 gardens, 100 sports facilities; 210 reception rooms with new medical equipment. When we sounded these figures at the beginning of the year, many did not believe, but most of these objects are ready. And by the end of the year, as we promised, we will have implemented this whole plan. Sometimes, yes, there are criticisms, he said, that we have completed some of the objects of former authority. The key word is "we're done." We don't take years, we don't spend money on them, we finish. It's good, by the way, and fast. Moreover, we complete not only the former authorities but also their predecessors and predecessors. The example is the OHMATDIT Hospital, which was opened after the reconstruction of summer, and the prison city is the country's most famous long-lived. Today, active work is going on, and we will certainly complete this object, not the next policy. In spite of the ancient tradition of Ukrainian politics, a large building does not end after the local elections, but it will become even larger. In addition to new roads, schools, gardens, and hospitals, we will begin the restoration of Ukrainian castles, theatres, museums, cultural and architectural heritage of our Fatherland. We're also preparing the "Ukraine is the champion" program. Each region of the country must have a large modern sports arena, each bearing the name of an outstanding Ukrainian champion. A comfortable country is not possible without full coverage of fast Internet and modern reconstructed or new airports in each region. Every day we work on this to make Ukraine as comfortable as possible for citizens as they can live, which they will gladly travel, which millions of tourists from around the world will visit. Dear Ukrainians, you know, you can always look at three things: how fire burns, how water flows, and how politicians talk about problems in Ukraine. But what we're about to say will not go away. We have to work. I know that there are a huge number of issues that are important and problematic for Ukraine that we have not discussed today. If I touched each one of them, the message would be extended until 2024 and the next presidential election. That's why it's less than a word. I also know about all the items in my program that have not yet been executed. I know. They tell me the way every day, they give me energy to make my dream come true: I want to pass on this program to the next President of Ukraine, where each item will be marked by a branch as executed. And to tell you the truth: Dear Ukrainians, I am not ashamed of you! It's a dream. Finally. On October 25, there will be local elections in Ukraine, very important, not for political parties, but for you, citizens of Ukraine, for the development and well-being of your cities, villages, your communities. On this day, I'm going to ask you five questions, and I'm going to wait for the answer. And today I'm going to ask important, honest questions to myself, and I'm going to answer them right now. Did I think a year ago that changing the country for the better would be so difficult? No, it's not. Would I change my mind if I knew that? No, it's not. Will all of us succeed? Yes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will make two announcements, and then we have two factions. Four factions asked for two breaks with a replacement for the performance. Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Ninth Intermarium Intermarium Interfractional Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected by the national deputies of Ukraine: Batenka Taras Ivanovich, Vereschuk Irina Andriyevna, Bilozar Larissa Mikolayevna, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, Zavnevich Alexander Mihajlovich, Klimenko Julius Leonidivna, Nataluh Dmitr Andryovich, Oblivna Valentinovna Forest, Eulya Jurijovna Sheep, Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovič Network, Savchuk Oksana Vasilevna and Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Another announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Parks and Recreation". The heads of this union were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Krivosheev Igor Sergiyovich. Eulya Yuriyevna and Nalitova Dmitry Alexanderovich. That's 2 announcements. Now, honourable colleagues, a statement has come to the fore that "in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Rules, we request a recess to hold consultations with the replacement for the speech." It's the Voice and factions. Please. The word is given to today’s noun Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear friends! I can't help but react. The previous speaker was vivid: the half room laughed, the half room applauded. He can hold the hall. Unfortunately, he doesn't know how to hold the economy. And that's why I'd like to ask you one question at my party today. There must be no opposition MP standing here, there must be a minister of the economy, but there is none, and he does not call for it. There should be a minister of health as the leader of the team to fight COVID, but he keeps his social distance from problems. This issue should have been violated by the President of Ukraine, but he kept silent in his speech. The question they're really asking in the kitchens, in the kitchen in Yagotina, Irpen, in the kitchen in Kramatorska, Mariupola, in the kitchen in Lviv and Chernivci is the question: how will the country continue to work? I'll make it easier. Question: Are they going to close the economy down again, or are they going to hang a large barn castle at the enterprise? Question: "What else will people pay for their work?" Question: "How will people continue to earn money?" Question: Will a hard quarantine be reintroduced? I understand that this is an awkward question for the authorities during the elections. But, dear friends, we cannot wait any longer. Every week we get the same question: how will the economy work? I understand that we would like everyone to keep a social distance so that everyone will follow the steps that are recommended. But let's be honest: the Sum cook, the Chercas hairdresser and the Poltava builder, he can't go into quarantine. No, you can't. He understands the numbers, he understands that there is a lack of beds in hospitals, he realizes that the coronavirus is spreading, but he needs to feed the family. And so unfortunately, we can't close our economy, we have no right. Because if we make this stop, this stop will be the last and the final stop for our business. Dear colleagues, I understand you have a lot of questions before the election. I understand that the issue of quarantine and business conditions is not at the top of your list. But we need all of us now, regardless of the political forces, to demand one -- this is a clear understanding now of how the economy will continue to work. Because elections will pass, and business problems, economic problems, the problems of our people will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, another statement by two political factions: "Fatherland" and "Trust": a break with a replacement for a performance. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u24	Dear friends, I think Parliament is now ahead of a historic decision. Do we live in a country of soufflers or live in Ukraine? And that's a decision we need to make about what's going to happen next with quarantine. Quarantine is not the closing down of businesses and millions of people on the street, quarantine is the working factories and factories that pay budget taxes, which are not a country of dreams, but for which equipment is purchased for hospitals where new hospitals are built. These are not closed markets and services, but taxes that pay for the heroic work of our doctors and younger medical personnel. Quarantine is not closed kindergartens and schools, but parents who sit at home without help. No, these are working kindergartens and schools, and these are our students who are learning, including the most important subjects, not on the Internet, but in real life. Quarantine is not a condition in which the country will actually be knee-deep, which is what Julia Timoshenko and other national deputies have proposed, where all the funds should now be directed to health care, to support those who work heroically there, to protect people, not to close the economy. You can't kill the economy with quarantine, you can only do one thing: the country will answer everything there was, 25 numbers. Sadly, the answer is already given. When only 2 percent of the population claim to have improved in the last 1.5 years and 98 percent believe that it has not changed or worsened, it is a sentence. I think we have only one situation: whether 25 numbers will be answered and we will understand that the country in the soufflé and the country of Ukraine are two different states, the people of Ukraine and those who think they understand how the people of Ukraine live are different people. That's why we have one option: to now vote the verdict, and thus open the economy, but to protect our citizens from that terrible invasion that unfortunately the authorities failed to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, we're moving on to the agenda, and we're going to have to make a decision to put this issue into the agenda of the day session. Please prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider the draft regulation on measures to combat the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) and to protect all systems of activity of the country from the negative effects of the pandemic and new biological threats (registration number 4228). This question was introduced in an exceptional order during the Conciliation Council. The draft decree was signed by almost all representatives of the MP factions and groups represented in Parliament. This decision was also supported by a profile committee. And I think that in the face of the difficult situation and the challenges facing the state today, we, as a responsible parliament, should make decisions based on a rapid response to all the challenges and threats. So, dear colleagues, I am now voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the Order (registration number 4228). This requires 226 votes of Ukrainian national deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:38:57]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:39:25]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Discussing? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. But while Julia Volodymyrna is on her way, I have a suggestion: After considering the decision to go straight to the hearing of the minister of health, without interruption from 12 to 12:30. Is there no objection? Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna. Please turn on the microphone. Wait. Dear colleagues, I am advised that we did not vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please support and vote on the simplified procedure. [[11:40:35]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I want to say right now that this is a joint document of virtually all the factions that have all been working on this document in order for it to be effective, to be specific and, most importantly, to address the issues that people and medical people are facing today. I think that the first thing we do with you in this decision is we change places: we leave the sick at home, we leave the sick at home, we leave the treatment at home or at the hospital, and we don't have to drive around town to get help. And healthy people are protected by all means: masks, gloves, waistcoats, space suits, and work, work, and all living normal lives. In principle, this question can be solved. To do that first, what we're doing in this regulation, we're allowing a person to contact one phone number, one hotline, like the '03', but not to send a person on this hotline to a family doctor or somewhere else, but to ensure that they get to a person, depending on the condition or the speed of help, or the mobile brigades. In this decision, free medicine for all, free tests for all, free testing for all, free testing at home, and it's important, there's an inventory of laboratories in a country that only exists, and it's totally free for people to use and pay at the expense of the state budget. Here, for all medical professionals, 300 percent of the allowance is non-exclusive, not momentary, but on the salary of nonmedical professions, because it's important if nonmedical professions work in hospitals. There's a clear algorithm, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u27	The time for everyone is the same. Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u28	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, the Committee on National Health, Health Care and Medical Insurance discussed the draft Decree No. 4228 this morning. The committee supported the initiative to establish the National Opposition Headquarters COVID-19 under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, during its consideration of the decision, the committee made a number of comments and suggestions to the decision. To foresee a mechanism that will allow the Law on Insurance to pay off doctors to work in practice. Adjust the standard for subsidies granted to hospitals that accept infected patients. Predict the government to provide at least 40 percent of the population with a free, safe, and quality vaccine after it has appeared. Develop an algorithm for opening temporary hospitals with appropriate funding. Create an e-registration and validation database. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (by the way, I would like to say that this decision was supported by virtually all factions and parliamentary groups) to include the draft Decree-Law 4228 in the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and the results of the first reading to accept it on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's conclusions, and to entrust the committee in preparing the text of the ruling to the Head of the Supreme Council to take joint action with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its technical and legal work. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u29	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Please write down: two in, two in, and two in, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. The hammer of Igor Fedorovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we didn't know after the President's speech that we were doing so well. You know, the country isn't laughing, but the rostrum and the scene are different things. We are now being watched and listened to by millions, listening to millions of people as authorities and governments are unable to protect the nation from challenges, as authorities are plentiful in a pandemic that resembles pilfering during the plague, especially before the October 25th elections. How can Parliament applaud the President's statement on COVID mortality in the country? We did that, and that's the day we registered a record number of deaths in Ukraine. People are getting tired of this cynical lie, which is coming out of the mouth of the professional Ministry of Health, the government as a whole in the last six months of the struggle against COVID. People put money on what's called a cadaver bag, which the state has to provide on its last black day. That's why our political party for the future, I think, will be joined by all the other political forces in Parliament, has already collected nearly half a million signatures for the resignation of the Minister of Health. And today the issue of the fight against the coronavirus is equal to the issue of national security. President Zelensky made an unsatisfactory assessment of Parliament. Obviously, this is a fair estimate of the magnitude. We wait the same way for the evaluation and for the government to be negative. And don't be, as Vassil Stus said, a bunch of thieves, rapists, who, as a party of Bolsheviks, sat in parliament today. We're thinking about the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u31	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u33	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I've been holding in my hands the Voice Act of Ukraine since May 7, where you and I have already approved very important things to counter the coronavirus. It's also a large-scale test when in Ukraine they have to test people with both symptoms and contact points and the National Police. Do you, colleagues, in Ukraine now see large-scale testing? And I can't see. I see people who either don't take tests or people who wait for their test results for a couple of weeks when they don't need them anymore. The law also prescribes the preparation of second - and third - wave hospitals as well as temporary hospitals. Since May 7, colleagues, we have voted for this. Do we have hospitals ready now? No, we have people to put anywhere, put them in corridors, or just send them home. And that's because the money for all of this was. But the Ministry of Health failed to comply with that law. Do you remember that we were still very happy to have insurance for the medical community? Thus, there is a medical doctor named Oleg Hyde, who, unfortunately, died on June 30, and his son beats the thresholds of social services and courts in order to obtain legal aid. This is the right thing to do. We made a lot of helpful comments there. Unfortunately, however, colleagues, this decision will remain our dreams on paper, while the key Ministry of Health in charge of Mr. Stephen’s will continue to fail to implement all our decisions. So let's take another decision on his resignation in the package. By the way, she was registered as Voice back in July. Join us, colleagues. You collect signatures from people. All men against this minister. Let's get him out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u35	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u36	Please hand over the Shufrench.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u37	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. What did we hear literally a few minutes ago? It was not the President's address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- it was a speech by the head of a particular political power solely for one purpose: the pianist of his own party, whose name was "Serve of the People." We saw no specific offer, but the presentation looked like promises for promises. And it's very, very sad, and it certainly doesn't look like the head of state. What a statement of leadership against COVID! Well, first of all, COVID's been here for eight months, and the head of headquarters only wants to do it today. Where have you been, Mr. President, eight months? It's like there was nothing, there's nothing to see, there's nothing to move. The other one. And that's not your authority. This is an authorization exclusively to the government. You want to work for the Prime Minister, move to another building or read the Constitution. And today we demand that all the funds of the hedge fund be allocated solely to ensure that measures are taken to eliminate the consequences of the pandemic, to protect our citizens, to protect our doctors first. Because we're on our way, we can't see these roads. Where are the 6,000 miles? They're in the pockets. And this will be the next corruption wave that will destroy today's power. And today we feel absolutely free, irresponsible about using state funds in a situation of deep crisis. What's going on? "All good, wonderful Marquis." This is the conclusion that we can draw from today's speech by the President. But the horse is dying! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u39	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u40	You know, I've seen a lot of cynicism in this Council, but I've never seen cynicism like this before, to be honest. I saw a banal pianist and cynic who, in all holy things, only knows how to pear, who tells us that he had a relationship with two revolutions. I had a relationship with them! Not him! Where was he then? He played the piano when we were standing on all the country’s playgrounds. The president had to say here where the country is going: is it moving to Europe or Russia, or is it standing there at all, and is he just doing it now? The president had to say what was going on with the army. That's his direct authorization. Why is it collapsing, and why is it going to be reduced when we were building it when the whole country was building it for the last six years? He says "you" to the country. I'll say, you're talking about Crimea, you're talking about 2014! Where were you in 2014? How many meters of Ukrainian land did you win? You have an army that didn't exist in 2014. Did you give any orders about the attack? You're out! You're assigning yourself to something you don't have any relationship with. "OHMATDIT," which we built for 10 years and was built for 90 percent? And your budget committee took away 140 million, and then you were complaining that you had returned 200 million. [[B in m in s a l in]] Scream as much as you can, but shut up! Are you talking about programs here? Are you talking about rocket programs, or are you threatening the Turk who built these rocket programs, and what kind of relationship do you have?Oh, my God! You're talking about the power structures and the law enforcement organs that you're using to deal with the opposition because you're afraid of the powder that you're afraid of. Cynicism is debilitating. And the truth needs to be told, and people know the truth, they live on the real earth, and you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u41	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. After that, Timoshenko. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u42	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, we will support this decision, I also signed it from the MP group. The situation is indeed very difficult in the country. Infectious hospitals are overcrowded, lack of oxygen, lack of protective equipment, and lack of HIV devices. And we know this problem for real because we work in places like deputy majors. There's a problem with the P.L.R. test, because it's expensive if you do it in a private lab, not everyone can afford it, but in state labs, it's time-consuming, and it's the result of 7-10 days, and it's critical days when you have to treat the patient. And that's why we need the MOH to get involved in this situation and sort of put it in order. The state and leadership of the state should take the situation under personal control, the President, because we have to move on to nowhere, and we need to bring the coronavirus pandemic into line. We will support this determination on the basis of both in general and ask our colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Julia Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u44	So, dear friends, the decision: free tests, the hot line, free tests for those who have symptoms, free medications for those who are treated in the infirmary and in the hospital, free of charge all diagnostics, including all the tests, for outpatients and stationarys, 300 per cent for doctors and not for medical workers who are in contact, and not up to 300 per cent, but 300 per cent for salary; 15 minimum subsistence minimums for medics if they are sick; the deployment of laboratory networks, temporary and private, up to 100,000 PLR tests per day. And then we're going to go with you: the restoration of the State Sanitary Epidemiology System completely, the creation of country-based capacities for the production of PLR tests (we have everything) and plus full budget funding. Glory to Ukraine! We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u45	Heroim Slava! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll bet you a vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on Measures to Resist the Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) and to protect all the country's life systems from the negative effects of the pandemic and the new biological threats (registration 4228). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:02]] For 308. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Hello, everyone! Dear colleagues, let us go to the information provided by the Ukrainian Minister of Health about measures to counter the spread of coronary disease in Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, the following regulations were proposed: listening to information is within 20 minutes a speech by the Ukrainian Minister of Health, and the Health Minister's responses to questions from MPs and groups — up to 21 minutes, 1 minute — to questions, 2 minutes to answer. Is there no objection? U.S. Health Minister Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. To think that the distribution of the Coronavirus is not up to each of us, is a mistake. If someone thinks that he is independent of himself, it is also a mistake. The virus spreads from one person to another through air, touch, and regular communication. As far as the extremes are concerned, no one will personally wear a mask, wash their hands, or walk two feet [two meters] away from the crowd. Each one of us depends on how many people get sick tomorrow, a week later, and a month later, the virus does not hurt anyone. And unfortunately, the world has not yet come up with better prevention than wearing masks, washing hands, and keeping distance. So I urge every Ukrainian to follow these simple rules, you can save lives, or by ignoring these simple rules we will find ourselves in a critical situation. After the statistics failed, the medical systems of even developed European countries failed. A little more than a month ago, I was standing on this stand, and I reported on the work of the last six months, in which Ukraine met medicine, where Ukrainian medicine met the COVID-19 pandemic and what a great way it had been since April. With 100 patients in April, we were forced to go to the hatchhouse, and now the system is supporting tens of thousands of patients. Yes, not everything is perfect; there are many flaws and problems that need quick solutions. But I want to draw your attention, if we didn't increase the power of the medical system to fight COVID-19, the collapse would have occurred in July. I'll remind you, when I came to the Ministry, there were only 12,000 beds in Ukrainian hospitals for COVID-19 patients, not more than 30 percent of which were equipped with oxygen. Our team has increased these powers three times. The pandemic is progressing around the world in a frenzy of dynamics, and new records are set every day. Fighting the virus is a struggle for people's lives. Each unit in statistics is not just a number, it's a individual's fate. Unfortunately, there is no cure for Coronavirus anywhere in the world. Anyone who is uninsured can get sick regardless of their status and income levels. When a person is ill, he is confronted with all the realities of the Ukrainian medical system, a system that has been neglected and destroyed for 29 years. And now we're in pieces, step by step, building up a new medical system in the conditions of the most powerful epidemic in recent times that humanity has ever experienced. Human life is the most important value. That is why the victory over the epidemic was and remains the priority of President Vladimir Zelensky, the government in general, and the Ministry of Health in particular. It is now more important than ever to unite efforts to solve problems at all levels and to demonstrate the necessary actions by example. During the pandemic, 309,000 Ukrainians were already ill. COVID-19 is now an essential part of our lives, it's our new reality. The most important thing we can do right now is to help adapt to it as quickly as possible to slow the spread of the virus and reduce the strain on the medical system. The strategy of fighting COVID-19 has been and continues to consist of two components, which I personally and the entire ministry bring to people every day. First of all, it's to follow the rules that prevent disease. The Ministry of Health has developed preventive measures and insists on their implementation. The second important thing is the treatment process. We focus on improving treatment schemes, the availability of equipment, and the conditions for the provision of medical services. This also applies to strengthening family medicine so that we can be able to identify the patients properly at the initial stage. But it's important to realize that the resource has a limit. Sadly, during the pandemic, patients did not recover from other diseases. Oncology, cardiovascular disease, and other diseases were not shared. We now have 36,000 beds. We're constantly increasing this quantity. But it may be that medical workers are simply not enough. In places where the situation is very tense, doctors work at the limits of human capabilities. Imagine when a sick person is brought to a hospital where there will be both a free bed and equipment and medicine, but, God forbid, there will be no one to treat him. Then it doesn't matter. People are the main thing. I keep saying, and I'll keep saying, better help to doctors than Ukrainians is not a hashtag or an avatar in Facebook, but a safety policy. The more disciplined we will all wear masks, wash hands and keep away from each other, the slower the virus will spread and the less the pressure will be on our doctors, on our medics. Thanks to the introduction of adaptive quarantine, we have been able to maintain an optimal balance between the security of citizens and their comfortable lives. Our ministry continues to keep reminding and clarifying the anti - epidemic rules. We're seeing a steady increase in the number of new cases. We're preparing for any development, including the worst scenario. Now for the beds. I recall that at the beginning of the coronary disease epidemic in Ukraine, only 12,000,704 beds were ready for admission. We've already increased the number to 42,000, and we're going to increase it to 52,000 to 10 November. And by mid-November, 50 percent of the beds will be oxygenated, and in December we'll be able to increase this to 80 percent. In six months, we've increased the number of PLR tests per day from 200 units to almost 35,000, and we're increasing the rate every day. In mid-November we will provide 50,000 tests per day, and by the end of the year we will have 75,000 tests per day using the PLR method. In particular, I want to focus on the fact that, in addition to the costs we spent on the hedge fund, we're going to spend about 2 billion dollars on improving laboratory diagnostics, of which 1.5 billion is the purchase of antigen express tests for testing without using one million tests per month. These tests will be conducted by family doctors, mobile brigades, and hospitals. We continue to provide technical assistance to laboratories in the area of the Ministry of Health, robotic automatic devices that will allow minimal involvement of laboratory professionals. The equipment of the AIDS laboratory centers is also involved to increase the amount of testing. There is now the final stage of testing domestic testing systems for the IFA antigen study to SARS-COV-2. In August 2020, the number of beds with oxygen was about 8,000. And that's what we've increased since April of the month. At that time, there were only 4,000,800 patients in hospitals with a confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis, but we continued to increase the number of beds with elevated oxygen, and now it's 15,000. This is one of the indicators that shows that we have planned our health system to increase the number of patients in the fall-winter period. By mid - November, the oxygen bed should be 26,000. Hospitals designed to treat patients with coronary disease have over 4,000,600 artificial lung ventilation devices. About 10 percent are currently active. One and a half times the patient’s security has increased. The number of moving X-rays is 468 grand, and that's what we need today. We've simplified the procedures for running oxygen highways, and we've increased the production and supply of oxygen, including oxygen balloons and oxygen concentrators. On October 16, medical facilities that treat patients with COVID-19, the National Health Service listed 5 billion 464 million dollars, nearly 6 billion dollars to pay to medical and other health workers. These payments began on September 1, 2020, with $2 billion already paid for 234 million. The rest of the funding is foreseen for payment to medical personnel by the end of the year. In addition, the following funds have been allocated: 911 million to ensure the readiness and response of the Ministry of Health’s laboratory units. The Ministry has already agreed to purchase 54 computer CTs for hospitals worth 774 million dollars. By the end of the year, 107 more computers will be purchased. 572 million dollars are sent to the region to provide oxygen to the health care facility’s bed fund. By the end of the year, almost 6 million units of individual remedies had already been purchased and delivered to medical facilities. It's a process that goes on and on. We have developed a detailed plan that takes into account the ability of the health system and defines the algorithm for action according to four levels of danger. This plan provides medical care for those who need it. First level. We're here now. The daily number of cases between 5,000 and 7,000. This strain of health care can be sustained. And six months ago, even three months ago, that was impossible. Level two. Filling the beds of the COVID Fund will make up about 70 percent of the country’s total. At the same time, the average daily number of patients with confirmed cases of COVID-19 is between 8 and 10,000. At this level, we can find ourselves in the coming weeks. In this case, we will increase, as I said before, the number of beds in all health care facilities to 30 percent of the entire bed fund. That's 52,000 beds. We are starting work at this level to take the necessary steps to open temporary hospitals outside health care facilities. We'll ensure an increase in the number of health workers in all health care establishments designated for the hospitalization of patients with COVID-19 based on the involvement of employees from other departments and the conclusion of contracts. Let's step up control of the restrictive measures in all administrative units. Third level. The third level is when the average daily number of patients with confirmed cases of COVID-19 will be between 11 and 15 thousand, and the fullness of beds throughout the country determined for treatment of patients with COVID-19 will be at least 85 percent. Here, in addition to Level 2 measures, we will ensure the introduction of strict quarantine restrictions in the country by applying a full list of red-level restrictions on epidemic hazards. All medical personnel and other categories of workers will be mobilized. Civilians will be able to organize the work of ombudsmen, as well as the work of field hospitals. And level four is when the health system's resources are exhausted. This is when the daily number of cases will be about 20,000 patients per day. Here we will be forced to implement the activation of the medical sorting protocol, with priority given to medical care. I'm sure no one wants the country to be on level three or four. Recently, among the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it has become a common practice to accuse the Ministry of Health of failing to act. Colleagues, we've developed a plan, we've adapted algorithms, we've relaunched the country's epidemiology, we've purchased drugs, we've improved the working conditions and the protection of doctors. Today, the Supreme Council met for the first time after its own quarantine. And I hope that everyone and everyone in this room realizes how terrible this disease is and how important it is to ensure that these rules are implemented. I insist that the fight against the coronavirus is not a matter of political interests but of people's lives. I ask you to stop the political battalions and focus on all possible means of convincing people to follow the rules. There is nothing more effective than your own example. And when the epidemic is over, if you want it, you can go back to political accusations and speculations, but right now in the spotlight of people’s lives and health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Please sign up from the MPs and groups for a question to the minister. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u48	Please give the floor to National Deputy Annie Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u49	Anna Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Please tell me that out of 65 billion IHOs, only 2 billion dollars have been spent on medical supplements and have been paid only since September 20. What is the reason? As well as the issue of HLV devices, tomographers, reception equipment, and oxygen masks. In the Ministry of Finance, unfortunately, it stands at zero. That's a question for the minister. And a question to Mr. Schmigal. Please tell me that you took the Dobropilavugil mine to Renata Ahemtov on a lease early today and paid him 420 million for the investment. What's the investment? Where did the money come from? Who will pay for them? And who will pay the lost benefit of 3.6 billion dollars for the state in connection with the breakup of the lease agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. First. We speak clearly enough about when the Ministry of Health does not just spend money, and this is how we provide our medical system and personal protection, and artificial lung ventilation, and medical supplies, and the development of laboratory centers. When you say "advanced the funds," that's the word I think is essentially Ukrainian, that's the cost when you just cancel the accounts. We have a goal of spending this cost effectively. And effectively spent is when, after these costs have been paid, our hospitals have exactly the security necessary to provide this medical care. In the case of artificial lung ventilation devices. As I've already reported, we have 4,000 600 artificial lung ventilators, 10 percent of which are active today. All procedures are carried out, contracts are made, and with regard to the direct withdrawal of these funds from treasury accounts, this will take place under the contracts that have been concluded after all contractual obligations have been fully fulfilled. The same is true of the provision of personal protection. The same is true of computer scanners. The same is true of other programs. As far as paying medical workers is concerned, I would like to point out once again that payments of 5 billion 995 million dollars to medical workers are available by the end of the year, starting in September of the month, and these payments have begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u52	Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u53	I'm in place of Mrs. Verschuk, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u54	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u56	Turn on Buganski's microphone, please. Can I have your card back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u57	A week ago, Kabmin recommended that local councils send schools to vacations on time. What happened? Someone started the holiday earlier, someone didn't. I think it's inappropriate, if there's really a threat to the epidemic, to recommend something -- you have to demand it. And if there is no threat, why create information? That's the first one. The other one. There's a big problem with testing citizens. There are huge queues, and they grow faster than disease. That's a big problem right now, it's a big one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. So, about the first question. The question of vacation is, what is it? decide on the holiday directly by the educational establishment on the basis of the decision of the relevant owner of the educational establishment. It's purely local self-government, if we're talking about vacations. So according to the distribution and according to the system of authority that is in our country, the Cabinet of Ministers can recommend it if we talk about vacations. Why did we do so? Because the children began to have a learning process. For us, it's very important, and I've repeatedly stressed that an adaptive quarantine, a quarantine that's been introduced into the state to make it as much a found balance as possible between normal life and security. That's why we didn't want to introduce this restriction as a constraint on quarantine, banning the learning process, as it was in April, because of the holiday mechanism. We were confident that the local authorities would listen to us. Because I have repeatedly explained why we need all the children around the country to go on vacation without exception. Many of them, very many indeed, have left since October 15th, and some of them have left today. We hope that this will directly affect the number of new cases. It's about testing. We know about this problem, we see in which cities we have this problem. Now this is the Donetsk region, this is the Dnipropetrov region, this is the Kharkiv region, the city of Kiev, the Odessa region. There's no problem with the Carpathians, the Blacks and the rest. The only way we're going from April to April is by increasing the number of tests, buying equipment, teaching professionals, and increasing. Now 30-35, 50,000 -- mid-November, 75,000 -- by the end of the year. Besides, we have another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u59	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u60	Minister, I have a very specific question. The whole world lives by one law: either a lockdown - total closure of enterprises, schools, kindergartens, and the consequences we all have seen; or a working enterprise, working kindergartens and schools, but a total closure and quarantine for the sick, potentially ill, and people who have the greatest threat, autoimmune diseases, older people, heart disease. How much are we going to invent our bike? Do everything you can to test at home and to maximize the localization of people who are at risk. Don't let the companies close down, then the money won't go to medicine or anything else. So the first, and the key: when and how much is it going to cost, are there calculations in the Ministry, in the house of express tests, to identify the patients, and who should be located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. What we're talking about in terms of testing the express tests, we're talking about new tests that just came into existence in the world, these are so-called antigen tests. Before they came into the world and were registered in Ukraine, there was simply no other way to test the express tests, from the point of view of the diagnosis verification. In my speech, I touched on the fact that we're counting on 1 million tests a month for these particular needs that doctors, family doctors, hospitals, and our mobile teams will use. This is the mechanism that will allow for a substantial increase in the number of tests. What's more, we're going through tests on Ukrainian test systems now, this is an IFA on antigen, and we're also going to have a significant increase in the number of tests not only by the PLR method, but also by the number of tests from the point of view of confirmation of this diagnosis. So we're moving in that direction, and that's exactly what you're talking about. But there's another problem -- a problem with a name. To this day, all the contact patients who are established and who are asked to remain in self - isolation are subject to control that they remain at home for self - isolation. And the issue of control, including the issue of administrative punishment through a system of fines. So I'd like to take this opportunity to contact you and the rest of the national deputies. Since July you have a corresponding law, passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, 3890, which clearly regulates fines. This is the mechanism used by all European countries. Everything else, I think we have one of the best practices in Europe with regard to adaptive quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Trust, please. Whitelighter Larissa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u63	He's a whitelighter, a trust MP. Dear Maxim Volodymyrovich, I would like to thank you for literally just now that our district hospitals have finally got the money on the coded bags, literally right now. I mean, there are a lot of problems on the ground because of what? On the average, one district hospital in Winnickin receives 2.5 million, which is supported. But the chief physicians spend less on this than on medical supplies and antibiotics and wages, often buying mattresses with mattresses and bed sheets and so forth. I ask you to oblige them to report on the cost. It is also very important today. There's a back-up system on both S.C.T. and pharmacies. The chief doctor tells me, "I have a full stock of antibiotics, and doctors sometimes send them to pharmacies in these hospitals." I'm asking you very much to take control and check the hospital for use.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. In the country alone, more than 1,000 600 contracts have been made with different hospitals, more than 1,000 600 hospitals, with the National Health Service. And all of these hospitals are side by side -- these are the realities of Ukrainian medicine -- which, if you'll excuse me, they just killed all 29 years. We know about all the problems you're talking about. And the solution to these problems. It's clear that sometimes we decide in this way, as they say, in manual mode. But solving these problems requires a systematic solution, a systemic solution. And this is the question that I'm talking about over and over again, is the construction of a quality control system for the provision of medical care, when we can clearly control the way in which this quality is provided. That's what we don't have, what we face every day. What you're talking about is the rest of the mechanisms, when you're talking about what's called going out there, or some of them in other words call it, there's also a solution. And this decision that we started to make life, this decision is called "sale of prescription drugs, by electronic recipe." And we're clearly saying how we're going to do this. That next year, that we're implementing insulins, drugs, immunosuppressive drugs, and that by the end of 2022, all the other drugs that are sold on prescription forms. Once again, I want to emphasize the approach of the Ministry of Health: I am against manual control. The systemic solution is what we're building, we're doing it. But I understand that there's no other way now, and that's why we're doing this manually.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u65	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u67	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u68	Alexei Hotcharenko. I have a few questions. First. Your attitude towards the fact that the greater half of the COVID-infection fund was directed to asphalt? How did you vote on this issue in the Cabinet? The second question. Why, now seven months after the outbreak, are only 40 percent of the beds that are in the control of COVID equipped with oxygen — just 40 percent? Question three. Why do people today pay huge amounts of their own for testing and then wait a few days for their results? I have a fourth question for you. Why do we have so few tests? When we have 120 tests per 100,000 population per week and the European Union standard is at least 300. And that's why we're banned from joining the European Union today, and you've turned our car into a dead end. And I have one last question for you. Why did you go to the local polls during such a terrible epidemic and not fight for the lives of patients?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u69	First, the answer to your first question. If you look at the amount of money used for road construction -- by the way, you're a member of the national parliament, you voted for that decision when there were changes to the State Budget Act -- when you look at it, it's spent about 14 billion out of a total of 31 billion. Therefore, there is no need to lie. The second is a decision about 40 percent of the oxygen supply. And once again, at the beginning of the epidemic, we had 3,000 beds. 3-3,500 beds with oxygen, today more than 15,000 beds with oxygen. So when you ask that question, I think you just have to remember yourself, and when I was wondering before the beginning of this epidemic, what was the condition of Ukrainian hospitals, even in my district? That's the first one. Secondly, what's relevant is your next question about the number of tests. So you know, I've told you this over and over again about the state of our labs, where they were at the beginning of the epidemic. It's not even equal to what happened and what it is now. And we're clearly saying how we're going to increase the number of tests. Today we are doing 30, at least 30,000 tests a day. It was 200. And 30,000. We know clearly that by mid-November there will be 50,000, and still 75,000 tests per day. And as for my personal decision and our team's decision on the first issue on the list, you won't find any even theoristic reason that I don't do rescue.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u70	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Stefanishini Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u72	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u73	Mr. Maxime, we've already learned here that the laws are not written for you. Everything we accept in the Supreme Council, both in May and today you have approved the decree, you will not do, because you are simply not capable. We have 6,000 people every day, and that's only official, and it's unofficially much more. You're here telling us about a huge number of tests and how much you've done. You go and see, in hospitals what's going on, you talk to people who don't get a test every week. So, you know, you can tell a lot of stories here from parallel reality, but Ukrainians see what's going on. We've already had 310,000 people sick, and 6,000 have died. I have a simple question: How long does it take to get sick and die so that you can finally retire?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u74	I prefer it when you, Madam National MP, speak of the condition of Ukrainian medicine, killing it before working in the Ministry of Health. As for where it is, I've told you many times and I'm telling you, I'm very frank about what it is, what we need to do and how we're going to do it. Next. What's going on with the laws that you're adopting, the large-scale testing, or other things. Adopting a law, voting for it is very good, but a number of actions are needed to implement this law. It's too bad you don't understand. And as for your question, I already told you, not all dreams come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-10-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Question time's up. And thank you, dear colleagues. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
