ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. And please put on your masks. Let's not break any of the rules. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Unfortunately, there is still quarantine in the country. This is one of the ingredients of this phenomenon. Please, let us also stick to it. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Anna Vasilevna, you have her. Hanna Vasilovna, you have masks. Oh, yes, you see what you have. Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:07:40]] There are 287 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. First of all, dear colleagues, and there's an offer, let's work it out. There's a fine for not wearing a mask, but it works all over the country. There's an offer if you don't dress it, form it. Oh, I see, that's how much money works on national MPs! If you don't agree, 17,000 out of the salary to the fund is counted to the doctors. A normal offer? Thank you. I would like to point out that today we have a noun, Alexander Sergiyovich Sukhov. I welcome you, I wish you health, success, and health! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the floor is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u2	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, can I have a look? Thank you. You know, you see there's no factions in this room today, I'd say the responsible faction is the faction of Fatherland. Unfortunately, one of our colleagues, Oleg Maidich, is sick, he has a confirmed coronavirus, and as a responsible faction today is not in the hall, because all the MPs have gone into self-isolation. And until the test is done to each of the deputies, and there will be no decision that they are all healthy, they will not return to this room. And if anyone thinks the coronavirus is somewhere far away from us. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you. It's actually a responsible leadership, absolutely true. And if anyone thinks that the coronavirus is somewhere far away from us, and it's actually funny here, then I want to remind you that in the United States there are over 90,000 dead from the coronavirus, in Britain 34, in Italy 32, in France 28. In all of these countries, progressive withdrawals from quarantine and relaunching of the economy serve as mass testing for coronavirus and antibodies. Instead, we have the impression that there is no strategy for mass testing of Ukrainians in either government or in the MOH. On May 19, we are in 104 cities in the world. We only have 5,000 483 tests per million citizens. In neighbouring Poland, it's already 16,000 800 tests per million citizens. France is 21, Spain is 65,000. The situation with the production of PLR tests in Ukraine is very unclear. I would like to pay special attention to the fact that the previous Public Health Center officially banned 600,000 tests on a private firm’s coronavirus. This batch of tests was purchased as part of government action and sent to the area for population testing. It was worth a lot of effort for me and a group of troubled thinkers to stand back from funding the Institute of Molecular Biology for the genetics of NAN Ukraine from the budget. And instead of ordering these tests at the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics in Ukraine, there's some kind of contract with a private firm with a statutory capital of a thousand dollars. At what cost is the purchase of these tests financed? Why were 600,000 tests passed without prior expert procurement and with laboratories? Who should be responsible? I am convinced that the national MPs also want to hear real information about the state of payments of 300 percent of the allowances that have been selected and promised to the medical community. Why did 14 districts pay for this and the rest not? It seems that from many regions, the reverse answer is that subsidies have been formally removed and money has not come. And I demand that Health Minister Michael Stepanov, who was invited to the "hour of questions to the government," provide full information on the purchase and financing of testing systems from the Coronavirus, as well as antibodies to it. I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Father Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear friends, dear colleagues! A situation that prevents us from keeping quiet in the country’s higher legislative body. The situation that plagued Ukrainian society, parliament, international society, faith in fair elections, faith in honest parliamentaryism, faith in honest patriotism, democracy, and so forth. I'm talking about yesterday's published films, which our colleagues published in the parliament walls, the so-called conditional film of Dusty. We will learn from them the depth of Ukraine's external dependence, in fact the external administration that we've been talking about in recent years. In all our cynicism, as we hear from the latest published films that have appeared in the last years of the presidency of the previous President. We want to know, my friends, what was the commitment of the President of Ukraine to the high-ranking United States of America that he had taken on; what he had spent $1 billion in a tranche; how the ex-President of Ukraine had influenced Parliament in voting for the resignation and appointment of the politically motivated Attorney General of Ukraine, the release of the government of Yatsenuk and the appointment of a new government. And all these human resources decisions were covered by the need to carry out immediate reforms that were imposed in the Ukrainian society, which were defrauded by billions of dollars, tens of billions of dollars. Medical, law enforcement, court, which has not yet been reformed by Ukrainian society, and how these reforms have ultimately been felt by all society. What was the price of the Presidential Surroundings of Dusty for Ukraine if we heard about the showdown for 100 percent housing and utility tariffs, despite the fact that the IMF expected only 75 percent? This is actually a recognition of the absence in the country of the parliamentary coalition and of the political corruption that took place in the financing of political parties, particularly as it turns out, and of the Self-Help party. We have repeatedly talked about an external government that, unfortunately, does not become smaller today. In fact, it's only now that we're beginning to understand that, in fact, in previous years, Ukraine has lost part of its political sovereignty, how political ambitions and human resources requests have been affected by Parliament's decision, pressured by MPs, in fact, we have all the signs of crime and treason. The parliamentary group "For the Future" refers to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the entire parliamentary corps: the immediate establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, where there would be no political contractors. This is important for Ukraine's future, for future democracy and for future generations of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u5	Please sign in. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up, national deputies, for the performances. Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u6	Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! There was a very difficult situation in the city of Pochrovsk in the state-owned enterprise in the "Krasnolymanski" mine. Sailors do not receive a full wage for about six months. I ask you to intervene personally in this situation so that this matter can be resolved in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u7	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u8	This is Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, we know that today we're going to vote on the changes to the agenda, and the Voice faction doesn't support them, especially because there's the Double Citizenship Act. And, well, we're ready to deal separately with these issues, the security issues that are now very important to our country -- this is directly the Ukrainian Security Service Act. This reform has matured for a long time, its main reasons are the low efficiency of the Ukrainian Security Service, the impact of its large composition on corruption, the existence of a number of inequity functions, which, in combination with the dilapidated state, lead to the dispersion of resources that we have so little. There is also no effective parliamentary and civil control. And in general, we have a KGB wreck, a law enforcement monster, rather than a modern-day force. I'm an officer of the BSS myself, and I represent that part of the co-workers who want to make effective changes, who want to be able to prevent threats to public security, not to serve the interests of the corrupters and to help them in political wars. However, the proposed bill does not solve these problems; it is called upon to consolidate the status quo. Even more, the ministry receives additional privileges without any responsibility for their execution. The Ukrainian Security Service will have the right to investigate any crimes in agreement with the Attorney General, it has the right to conduct intelligence activities, its disproportionately large state disguises itself in subordinate enterprises and organizations, and demilitarization is postponed until Russian aggression against Ukraine has ended. The U.S. will again duplicate the authority of a number of law enforcement agencies, and its leaders ’ declarations remain classified. Such a situation is unacceptable. In this room, virtually every political power has declared one of the pre-election tasks is to reform the BSS. The time has come to fulfill the promises to make real changes, not to disguise and be in love with the eyes. So I ask you to support the recommendations of the GNEU and the PIC and send this bill to read again for the first time in order to remedy all the shortcomings. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u10	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u11	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, literally the day before yesterday, I gave up my blood on plasma. The first was, he gave blood to the antibodies, he gave blood yesterday. Last night, he gave up blood on plasma and became a donor, and that's what they did in a private company. Question: "Why don't state companies work today but just intimidate people with the coronavirus?" Where's the statistics, how many people died of cancer? Where's the statistics, how many people died from pneumonia, from the flu? Where is the statistics on thrombosis? Today, a man breaks his arm -- he breaks it from a coronavirus. He breaks his leg - he breaks it from the Coronavirus. Why are people intimidated? Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly stated from this rostrum that it is necessary for a state programme to collect blood banks, as is the case in Switzerland, France, in all the civilized states of the world. Why is quarantine the only thing they fear today? What is the answer? We need to check every person. And they call me, they say on Facebook: How do you check the blood on the antibodies? Why does the state’s chief physician today not state where a state institution can pass an antibody test and prove to be a healthy person who can live normally to fill our state’s budget? Why is the MOH today purchasing foreign tests? For example, Sergey the Magnificent tested eight times, showed negative, and had the same symptoms as I did when I was suffering from a coronary disease. Why are we hearing today that the $8 test stands, 37 euros costs a test? How many billions of dollars does it take to get out of the country to understand that it is necessary not to destroy it but to build it? Who else from the state is napping with suitcases of money? The position of our "Trust" group: I can immediately join the state program, test every person in the state, in every area, in every area, in every city to detect antibodies in the blood. And what I want to say is that there are at least 100 people in this room who are sick with the coronavirus, and they're already ill in December, January, February, March. Today, the Biopharmaceutical Laboratory lacks 500 donors for plasma, which can still be made up of drugs, Ukrainian drugs. We were the fifth state in the world to test antibodies, and today genius scientists are taking cures for the Coronavirus, so today we need to pass a antibody test on each of us. We can even bring the nurse here to the hall to conduct these tests and give blood as donors so that our scientists can discover the real drugs that are Ukrainian today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u12	Sergey Volodymyrovich, look, what they gave up is good, but... mask, if possible, yes, because 17,000, well, it's already minus. Still, as agreed. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u13	Yes, Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u14	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We're talking about the TSC, and that's where I want to start. You know, we're in favour of "European Solidarity" for creating a TSC that has to investigate who's implementing the Russian script on Ukraine's involvement in the internal political American struggle. We're for creating a TSC on a Sheremet case that you've been blocking for weeks. We're for creating a TSC in Benya and his friends, covering for a violent theft from Private Bank. Let's finally create a TSC. Now let's get to the point, to the point. Just over a year ago, Vladimir Zelensky took an oath to the Ukrainian people. He promised to protect the welfare of our country, our citizens. What did it turn out to be? And it turns out, you know, the results are that this is the right thing to call this year's anniversary. Look at what happened. We were promised the end of the age of fellowship. During this year 30 quartz, friends, brothers, neighbors received the highest positions in the state. We were promised the end of the poverty era -- the country is fast approaching the poverty gap and the age of begging begins. We were promised the end of the lie era and lied to teachers for $4,000, doctors for 300 percent of the pay, and they brought rapists and buttoned-ups to the Supreme Council. We were promised many things, and unfortunately we were lied to. And I'd like to start today, you know, right here in the near future at the Marian Palace, a press conference of Greens will begin on his presidency anniversary. So what I want to say to you is that this press conference was not accredited by Ukrainian media like Radio Freedom, like the 5 Channel, like the Ukrainian Week, the Head, the Bouquets, and so on and so forth, but was accredited by Shari.net. What kind of media separation is happening in our eyes? So many journalists who are not going to be there today asked me to ask Zelenski a question. And you know who the author of these questions is? This is Vladimir Zelensky himself. Just a year ago, at the stadium, he posed a question to the fifth president of Dustenk. And I would love for Zelensky to answer his own questions today, and I will read them. How come Ukraine is practically the poorest state with a rich president who has a villa in Italy and flies charters for recreation? Why did Sophia Fedena and Marousia Zvirosti find them in four hours and the fuel company cannot find them for a few years? Why is no one sitting behind Ilowaysk and Debaltsev? Why don't we know the names of the murderers on Maidan six years later? Wouldn't you like to take part in the experiment and try to live in a thousand and a half dollars of retirement for at least a month? How much money do you need from Ukraine’s budget to eat? Where did our Carpathian forests go? Why aren't Janukovich's soldiers punished? And the main question is, you're not ashamed.?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u15	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u16	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! You and I have been on this path of decentralization for several years. And every week and every day, we approach the completion of this great, practical, very necessary reform for every Ukrainian, when the governance of the communities will be fully transferred. But he himself came from local self - government, and I feel that it is necessary to listen to the authorities of local self - government. And here today, I have disturbing messages from the city head Lvov, because the next few days, the future plan for Kabmini will be one of the last, the Lviv region, a complex perspective. And of course, we need to listen to local communities, but it is virtually unacceptable to restrict and trim the boundaries of a large district center. It is not possible to make underground games so that the local kings of those OTGs where large businesses are located have the opportunity to tax their OTG and have the opportunity to rule. Still, we need to think about the development of the great Lviv, and I stress that it is possible to take the territory away, and this can also lead to a slowdown in the development of the great city. As for the second phase of decentralization reform, the size of the areas. Of course, it is necessary, but once again, we do not need underground games, but we need common sense. You can't make one huge one around one district center in a semi-district area. Then those towns that are very far away from the area will be on the edge and will not be able to develop, and that is unacceptable. So we need to approach the district division wisely, and we need to scale up and build more areas in each area, and in Lviv. So, in summary, we can say that there should be another large area of Yavorowski in Lviv, and in the Yavorov region there is and will be a large pilgrimage center – Stradecka Gora, and no private interests of any Kremlin can destroy the Christian center in Jaborovščina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u17	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Lichmann Hanna Vasilovna. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, during quarantine, I had the ability and desire to go to boarding school, but not childish, but psychological. But today I want to talk to you, because you're part of the hall, you're majors, you're looking at the state of children's boarding schools, which are particularly subordinated to the education departments in the district administration system. What do I want to talk to you about? In fact, there are currently some 750 interns in Ukraine and some 100,000 children are being held there. And when we went to quarantine with you, all the interns that are subject to the education and science system went to quarantine, too. Do you know what they did to children who have children, but who live in difficult circumstances, and what are the problems with their parents? They just gave them back to their parents without warning. Calling or driving under the door and leaving. And do you know what happened to those kids, and it's still happening? I am silent here on the principle of the education system that your children had in your families — with your boyfriends, your computers, your Zoom system, and so on. And in children who sometimes have no food, no lighting, no heat, and so on, and so on, whose parents do not normally wait for them at home or take them from there. Remember, it's not a vacation, it's an epidemic. Thus, somewhere, perhaps in the fields, the heads of administration function and function properly. And I'm going to have a separate request to the President to review his personnel policy in the areas and to resign some of them. But these children are often not even monitored by child service. So, I have a question in principle about the existence of an internet system that is unable to provide basic rights and protect these children, I have a request to the Committee on Education and Science, I have a request to the Commissioner for Children's Rights, to the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Education and Science to review in principle the work of the Internet and their attitude towards their subordinates: do we need them? Very often they're the first to shout -- those who speak out against families -- about what makes them uncomfortable, give us kids on the Internet. But for the first time in trouble, they were the first to take responsibility and put the children back in the family. There's a bunch of not-so-good examples of how these kids went back. I have a request: Please pay attention to this problem. And let's work together on all the children, and I'll remind them that about 42,000 have been sent home and that they don't have the right conditions to live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u20	The distinguished presiding, esteemed colleagues, dear Ukrainians, this spring in Polissa had a tragic situation, and those fires that took place in the Kyiv region in the alienation zone, those fires that took place in the Drewland Reserve in the People’s District, in the Ovrutsky region, in the Olew region, in the Lugin region, were a terrible tragedy because tens of thousands of hectares of forests were burned. We've lost a lot of trees. We've lost so many animals. And unfortunately, this is our political tradition, well, such a tradition in our country, that, unless there's trouble, we don't pay attention to one sector or another. No one had done anything for 30 years before the forest farm. Just as the Russian aggression had nothing to do with the army, so we had medicine in second, third, fifth, and forestry. So this tragedy that took place in Polissa this spring is a good reason for all of us to finally figure out the situation in the forest farm. You know, for the initiative of the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Oleg Bondarenko, I'm also a co-author of this law, we've all increased the responsibility for burning dry grass and burning forests in the desert. Because we don't have spring, we don't have autumn, we have people smoking, smoking and smoking. And motivation is hard to understand. We are now awaiting Bill 2379 on National Forest Inventory, also initiated by the Profile Committee. And we have to accept this bill. The Forest Protection and Fire Prevention Act is also being prepared. What a situation we have in the woods today. As a man entrenched in the northern regions of Zitomirsk, I went around all these fires, was in all these fires, and on Easter I was on these fires and saw what was happening. Unfortunately, fire escapes have been done very often for 5-10 years, so they don't match fire safety. Fire extinguishers, sorry, wet. And when the firemen come, they're basically nowhere to take water in the woods. An extremely complex set of problems. So today these are the bills that I'm talking about. Today, a special working group is being prepared between the environmental committee and the law enforcement committee, and all deputies will be added. We need more than just to learn the problem. We need to be at the level of legislators, and then at the level of the Ministry of Profiles, the state-level agencies to solve this problem. Because the climate is changing. And with each passing year, the forest situation will worsen if we do not take appropriate measures with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u21	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u22	Today we have exactly one year of President Zelensky's authority since he was given full authority to change the state. So we need to sum it up. You know, a year ago, I had the privilege of living in a state that not only gave way to the Moscow horde -- one of the most powerful military powers in the world -- but also in a state that fought every minute, not just for territorial integrity and sovereignty, but for its history, language, faith, army, song, book and conquering its rightful place, the Ukrainian place among the world's nations. Today I'm having a hard time seeing a state that's capitulating, and it's capitulating on all fronts. And one reason for all of this is that the President put himself, not in the position of a fighter, but in the position of the victim. This proved to be on November 7, 2019, when he wrote a statement in which he declared himself injured by what I had said on the front line. And I'll tell you, yes, they're shooting, they're shooting, because today, 10 times, they've broken the silence regime, and in that Orikhov thing where they don't shoot, they've released 38 minutes in the positions of our military personnel. And it's not about my business, it's about the phenomenon of suffering, because the victim can't defend himself, the victim will look for ways of retreat that are best for himself, not for the state. The victim does not need an army because he does not allow himself to retreat, an army that provokes guilt because the victim does not go to serve, while tens of thousands of Ukrainian boys and girls volunteered to defend their Ukrainian state. The patient does not even need to find a solution to the problem; he simply appoints the guilty, and it is not the corrupters, the oligarchs, the murderers of the land, that are to blame all those who fought for the Ukrainian state in the past five years, including my colleagues Tetjana Czarnovol, Vladimir Vitatrović, and the fifth president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, who fought for the future of the country. The patient doesn't need a personality, he needs comfortable people. So we have total "quartalization" of the state, and we have. They don't even put journalists in the press conference. For the victim, a personal offense is more important than the State’s interest. He is not able to make free decisions because they are difficult, and others are willing to make decisions for him. So now the President of Ukraine needs to determine whether he is injured or President of Ukraine, because I recall that my Ukraine and my Ukrainian people are not injured, and we will fight for this state, and the victims remain on the sidelines of history, so we keep fighting, like the victim or not. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u23	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u24	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainian People! Indeed, today is the year of Zelensky’s presidency. I'd like to talk to you today about his international policy. And that's 20 international steps of Zelensky to a breakthrough. The country is besieged and dragged into the Soviet Union. We see that we have a new Soviet Union, destroying exactly the achievements of President Zelensky. Green took a course, you know, to appease the aggressor, to put an end to the Russian scenario, to the end of the war, and to sign, to approve Steinmayer's formula right in the Kremlin execution. The Advisory Council means that the recognition of LNR terrorists, DNR as self-sustaining subjects of the negotiations, the policy of unilateral steps and the conclusion of the negotiation process in the Normandy format exclusively to determine the areas of military separation, has resulted in the expected political failure. Because we've lost the main fire points, the number of injured and dead, the diversions, the shootings, as a result, the increase in deaths and injuries. Are these Zelensky's peace initiatives? The policy of holding fire is this is Greensky's policy. The only result is actually the release of several of our hostages. But who did we give up? Who did we fire? We have freed the murderers, the terrorists from Kharkiv, Odessa, Mariupola. We gave up the only accomplice to the MN17 crime. We gave away the Bercuta fighters who were accused of shooting at Midan. I would like to say that the absolute problems of compulsory passporting of Russians in Crimea and in temporarily occupied Donbassa are ignored. At the same time, the president of Ukraine, Zelenski, introduces a bill on dual citizenship, which paves the way for the legalization of these Russian passports in the occupied Crimea and on Donbassa. To hold a meeting in Normandy, Zelensky’s team refused to consider and approve sanctions against the Russian Federation’s physical, legal persons responsible for handing out Russian passports. Is there an active fight for the restoration and release of Crimea? Illegal local elections in the occupied Crimea were ignored in 2019. For the first time since 2014, the Zelensky government has not applied sanctions against the officials of the occupying authorities, administrations, and leaders of the Russian political parties who took part in the so - called elections. But we hear from the mouth of the Prime Minister, who is the second provisional government of Zelensky, who is able to restore water supplies to the invaders. In fact, the negotiating process of liberation from the Russian prisons of the Crimean Tatar Ukrainians has ceased. Actual cessation of European, Euro-Atlantic integration, return. Returning to Greensky's citizenship bill can really rob Ukraine of the visa-free regime with Europe. Thus, Zelensky and his team are ruining all the achievements of 2014-2019 that we have managed so hard to do with our team. The next is the import of electricity from Russia, which has not been supplied since 2015. President Zelenski became a figure of impeachment scandal in the United States because of his nonprofessionalism. He's allowed it very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u25	National Deputy Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, faction of the political party Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u26	Osadczuk Andry, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u27	Please, Andrew Osadchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today we have a day in order among others the question of redistributing the powers of the State Bureau of Investigation. I just wanted to remind you of some of the circumstances, and let us understand where we are with this fundamental law enforcement body. Last year we voted on a very fragile model for the administration of the State Bureau of Investigation. At the time of the competition, we gave the President of Ukraine the opportunity to appoint a so-called so-called ‘yes’, which should be in his hands to hold this body until the competition is over. Unfortunately, it happened that way. has been evacuated from this role to a more interesting position as Attorney General, and we have found ourselves in a situation where the State Bureau of Investigation is effectively led by two deputies, who have been appointed temporarily. There's a whole bunch of problems here. First of all, we understand that the President of Ukraine did not have the authority to appoint the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called, we agreed to save this institution somehow. But T.V.O. She appointed two deputies, and she had no better idea how one of the deputies was Janukovic's attorney and had a conflict of interest. And that's not what I said, that's what the National Anti-Corruption Agency acknowledged. He has a potential conflict of interest in Midan's affairs. And now we have an even more interesting situation: the law provides for the possibility of replacing the director in the event of his resignation or absence, the director, not the so-called so-called procedure. Not at all. But now the substitutes are actually replacing the so - called so - called, but as Babikova has a conflict of interest, Mr. Sokolov has become the actual performer. But the law states that substitutes cannot perform duties for more than 60 days. And now 60 days had passed, during which Mr. Sokolov served as head. But the law states that substitutes should replace each other in turn until the competition is completed. Yesterday we failed to form a competition commission with you. When the contest is held, it is unknown. And now formally replacing Sokolov has Babik's, but he can't replace it because he has a conflict of interest. It's a complete legal collapse. I mean, we're losing D.B.I. We don't have D.B.I. And that's why we're now considering any legislation to extend the powers of the D.B.I. or change of jurisdiction is absurd. We have to deal with this law enforcement structure to save it, hold a legal competition, and only then go back to the questions of its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Perbynis Maxim Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Yes, thank you. We finished speaking to the national deputies of Ukraine. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion is over. Please prepare for our work, invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I have a request. I would like to invite the heads of the MP factions and groups. We're here to hold a brief meeting on agenda issues. For 10 minutes, please, if possible. But the request of the national deputies does not go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please return to our work. First of all, I am speaking to the chairman of the regulatory committee of Calchenka Sergio Vitaliyovich. But, honourable members of the committee, please, we'll have to hold a 12-hour meeting of the regulatory committee, which is during the break from 12:30 p.m. to 12:30 p.m. Dear colleagues, please prepare for our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. In our draft agenda, the first question is: the draft Order for Change in the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (project registration number 2835-9). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I repeat that I am putting to the vote the draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2835-9). Puts it on the ground as a whole. Please support and vote. [[11:01:55]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u33	Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act to improve the organizational and legal principles of the Ukrainian Security Service (new edition) (registrations 3196, 3196-1). It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be applied to deal with this issue in plenary. We need 226 votes in favour of the national MPs. I would like to remind you that the committee's proposal is to send a committee to prepare for the second reading of this bill. Ready to vote? Please support and vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure. [[11:02:59]] For 257 Decision taken. It is suggested that we apply a brief discussion of this bill. Please support and vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:03:23]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please tell me if a discussion is necessary. It's necessary. Then the statement is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslana Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u34	The Honourable Head of the People's Deputies of Ukraine! One of the promises made by President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine was the relaunch of the Ukrainian Security Service. And on this basis, a new bill was drafted concerning a new edition of the Ukrainian Security Service. It has a completely new European approach to the issues that relate to status, tasks, objectives, disclosure of key concepts, optimization of the organisation of the state structure of the BSS, harmonization of the question of post placement, and a whole range of others. At the same time, according to the committee’s discussion, the committee concluded that it was necessary to focus on rereading the first reading. So in principle, we ask you to support the committee's decision and send it back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u35	The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ustinovy Alexander Yuriovny. Doesn't he insist on the performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, that bill that was proposed by the President and is now working on the committee has little to do with the word "reform," and that is the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service. Unfortunately, this bill does not provide for the elimination of the corruption departments of the U.S.S.A., let's speak frankly. That's what the President promised and you promised when you went to the elections. It's not supposed to eliminate counterintelligence in the economy, it's those oligarchs in the Security Service who are now "losing" the whole business and driving on the lacquer machines, and now they've done something else that they shouldn't declare themselves. By the way, you're going to have to file a declaration of 1 number, and if this bill is approved to 1 number, then the Ukrainian Security Service and its management, and all those who are doing this, just these oligarchs, counterintelligence, are not going to submit their declarations and you're not going to see it. My bill, on the other hand, foresees the elimination of corruption departments, the elimination of the so-called anti-corruption department and the Department of Organized Crime, which we know is what he was doing and what kind of business he was "crippling". Counter-intelligence in the economy is projected to be eliminated, the Ukrainian Security Service is expected to submit declarations, and thus, guidelines, which are public and which should submit a declaration. And we all know that the Ukrainian Security Service has several times the size of any security service in the world. So we need to reduce this quantity, but we need to increase the quality. Unfortunately, the bill that we see, the President, does not provide for that. We're told that they're going to reduce the amount on account of what the sanatorium and those who work for them are going to do, from under the SBA's office, and that's how they're going to reduce the amount. I'm sorry, this is a campaign, not a reform. You know, by the way, there are separate clinics, sanatoriums, and all of these people are also Ukrainian security officers. And we need to reduce the numbers not by these people, but by those who are "losing" business and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u37	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Besugola Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u38	Gentlemen, reform of the Ukrainian Security Service is a requirement of time and vitality for our country, both in order to resist the conditions of armed aggression and further integration of Ukraine into the North Atlantic security community. The President of Ukraine has initiated a process of reforming the state’s special and intelligence bodies. It was one of the first steps in office. The work that has been accumulated over the years on this subject, but unfortunately has not been implemented in legislation, despite the enormous challenges and threats to public security, has been reviewed and defined by the joint work of the Office of the President and Parliament. The first step is to look at the projects and send them to Parliament. The second step is to work on a consolidated package of changes in the profile committee, to relaunch the special and intelligence bodies of the State. The Ukrainian President's draft Law on Registration 3196 is aimed at enhancing the institutional capacity of the Ukrainian Security Service. But what I'm going to say is that the Chief Scientific and Expert Committee and the Professional Committee, when they analyzed the version, made a number of important comments and suggestions about it, and they think that the bill needs further work. In particular, given the number of legislative initiatives and the importance of the State Security process, a group has been formed on the basis of the committee, which is currently working on the bill. Thus, the committee, after considering the bill for registration number 3196, recommends that the first reading of the draft be sent to the Main Committee for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u39	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Pavlenko Rostislav. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians, the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service is a key reform of Ukraine's security sector. And like everything Zelensky does, this law is written free of charge, that even the President's representative in Parliament is asking to take him away for his first reading. Today, there are two security services in Ukraine. One is heroes who defend the country on the front. And the second is an economic bloc that protects power, gathers popes for opposition, and also a nightmare for business. What was very important was to put into a bill, where only the name, as it is, goes to Zelenski, is to reform the BSS, and inside there is an absolute Soviet system, which does not lead our service to the standards of special services of NATO member states, as it should be. The depoliticization of special services is very important. The second is the strengthening of real parliamentary control over intelligence and the creation of a special intelligence committee, as we said at the beginning of this office. Third, it's very important, it's another personnel policy, because, really, I want to remind you that there are real heroes in the service today who went first in 2014 to the front, who were the first to conduct special operations to protect Ukrainian territorial integrity and sovereignty, and which we are proud of, but why do they stay there on the front without the possibility of human growth? In fact, it is very important today that this reform of the Ukrainian Security Service should lead to the de-economy of the special service, its depoliticization, so that the Special Service will abandon this collection of popes to opposition and "trembling" business and will finally act solely to protect Ukraine's national interests. And we're waiting for a response service to the latest so-called operations of Gordon when we don't know who's saying it's him, not the special forces are gathering evidence about terrorists and collaborators for The Hague. That's what he's got.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u41	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u42	Please tell Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u43	Excuse me, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to stress the reform of the Security Service. We've been talking about reform for 28 years, and it's only in 2004 that we've come to take the External Intelligence Service into the Security Service. But now it's all about bringing her back and coming back literally until we just talked about reform. So this is one aspect. The Security Service now has a number of powers, such as counter-intelligence, law enforcement, investigative functions, have places where the defendants are kept, i.e. they have a complete closed cycle that can be developed from the beginning and put into prison. The courts alone are not enough, but by some corrupt scheme, they have their own influence. Therefore, these powers must be taken away from them and made available to them by modern intelligence. Full division of powers and no duplication of them with other services. This is a task for our Parliament at this time. We have to do this, or we'll just talk about it for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Participant of Bujansky Maksim Arkadyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to support you, to fully support the honorable Irina Heratschenko. Yes, the Ukrainian Security Service should not be involved in the economy. She has to deal with matters of treason. How do you all know that yesterday there were public tapes with the talks of the former President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, by the way, why aren't you in prison? - with Joe Biden. The U.S. Attorney General's Office has found grounds for a criminal offence of treason. Therefore, I insist that we turn this Act on reforming the BSC for further processing and make it possible for traitors to be in prison. We're voting for a back-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. It's a good word. Honorable colleagues, the reprimand is then given in accordance with the Rules, when there is, say, a violation of some of your rights, or slander, or insult. And when it's a form of conversion. Friends, let me give Mikola Leonidovich Skorak first, and now let's see the Rules. Okay? The word is given to Mikola Leonidovich Skorik, the national deputy of the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u48	Please give the floor to Deputy Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u49	Please, Deputy Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, on February 18, 2020, the 3080 Security Service Bill was registered. It's been 14 days, no one's registered any of these bills. This law, which is called the President's -- in violation of the Rules, in violation of existing legislation -- is not to be considered at all. Next. And by analyzing what it is, I mean. First: it does not comply with the Constitution, it does not comply with the National Security Act, which was adopted in 2018. This law destroys the functionality and causes the Security Service to lose and the sources of information coming from experts, and we will repeat the feat that the Attorney General did in reforming, where the Ukrainian experts on this issue were reforming, and we have no idea where there are no more than 2,000 prosecutors in the Public Prosecutor's Office today and there are better ones. If this law is pushed in the way it is, we lose the Security Service. But there are some positive points, and that's the fact that a working group has been set up with both the Security Service and the others, and I'm taking part in it. And I hope that if he's sent to work, then the working group will still be able to preserve sovereignty, to keep an active service in order for it to work in the conditions that it is today, and to resist them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u51	Replica is Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, it's very interesting to watch the Kremlin's conservaries explode in this session hall. And in fact, I would very much like it now, as the electoral campaign starts in the United States, first of all, the party of power is aware of its high responsibility for strategic relations with our strategic partner and has done everything to prevent the two-party support of Ukraine from being destroyed by the United States. This is the goal of the Kremlin and Russia now to leave Ukraine alone, alone with the Russian Federation. And if the authorities are so actively playing it because of provocations, certain actions and so forth, it's very revealing. I urge my colleagues to be very responsible for the foreign policy that President Zelensky unfortunately failed, and not to give any chance of provocation, action, film, falsification to destroy our support for strategic partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u53	Thank you. The great Sergey Anatolyovich. After. Wait a minute! Are they still willing to speak? None. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on the mic to the Almighty.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u54	The Trust MP Group supports the decision to send the bill to the Main Committee for the re-reading of the first reading. We think that the bill is not that it's imperfect, but it's got a lot of negative points. For example, a reduction of more than 50 percent in the number of BSPs, a replacement of BSP officials to non-military personnel, which is not appropriate during a special period. The need for full de-lict of pre-trial investigation BAFs needs further study, including by taking into account the Council of Europe standards. Some provisions of the bill need to be reconciled with constitutional regulations and valid legislative acts. Please note these comments and do not support this bill. He cannot be accepted in this way, for he needs serious work. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare and take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act to improve the organizational and legal principles of the Ukrainian Security Service (registration No. 3196). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:37]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with regard to the special procedure for the second reading of bills (registration numbers 3415, 3415-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:22:15]] For 271 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters. Counselor. Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Florov Paul Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is again about the problem of repair spam. On April 16, this year, we solved the problem by adopting Law 1043. We've adopted this procedure, we've put in place a special procedure, this procedure is not ideal, and today we're proposing to improve the anti-spam procedure, namely: we propose to set a lower limit on the application of this procedure, to raise from 500 to 1,000 amendments. In accordance with the political arrangements, we propose to apply this procedure only for a period of quarantine plus 30 days and to extend the substantive right of the parliamentary legislative initiative, namely, that every national deputy, subject to the establishment of the Supreme Council of this procedure, will have the right to propose in this special procedure to discuss and support any amendment to each article or to each item of the draft adopted in the first reading. I am also from the Committee of Rapporteurs, so I will briefly say that the Committee on Rules at its meeting has proposed to adopt this project 3415 as a basis and as a whole. If in general, taking into account the exact wording of the Final Orders, which deals more clearly with the urgency of the Act. And alternative project 3415-1, the Regulatory Committee suggested that we reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u57	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u58	As we recall, on April 16, this year, the Supreme Council adopted an extraordinary meeting. has amended the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules as if it were against the abuse of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies, and in fact restricting our rights to you. And this law clearly, according to the parliamentary group "For the Future", restricts and violates article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the national MPs are entitled to legislative initiative, which includes the possibility of filing and standing up to unlimited amounts of their rights and proposals to draft Ukrainian laws. This law, both the rights of the majority and the rights of minorities in general, is about our rights with you, which are being pursued. Bill 3415 is an attempt to mitigate the anticonstitutionality of recent changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, the bill, instead of introducing the temporary nature of the anti-constitutional changes to the Supreme Council Rules, provides them with a temporary basis for some weakening that does not remove the anti-constitutional nature of such acts. We're talking about making these changes for a period of quarantine plus 30 days, but there's no quarantine in the Supreme Council, we're working in plenary. Thus, the rules on the violation of the constitutional rights of national MPs as the subject of the legislative initiative continue to take effect and continue to weaken the anticonstitutional norms. Contrary to these anti-constitutional rules, the alternative bill that we have proposed provides for the deletion of recent changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we do not invent a wheel. And the problem is that, among other things, we have prepared a constitutional application to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, where we ask the Constitutional Court to consider the conformity of the Constitution with the adopted amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Friends, the bill will allow the constitutional rights of Ukrainian national deputies to be restored as subjects of the legislative initiative. So I urge Parliament to support Bill 3415-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, and invite the national deputies to the hall. The committee has proposed to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, but I see positions and I've heard positions of various MP factions and groups, so we're putting it on the ground. Right? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the special procedure for the second reading of draft bills (registration number 3415). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:27:53]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory State Pension Insurance" to improve pension insurance with the President's proposals of 31.01.2015. Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Vitaly Volodymyrovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u60	On 29 November, the honourable chairman of the National Parliament, the committee at its meeting, discussed the proposals of the ex-President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 January of the law of Mr. Razumkov concerning the improvement of pension insurance. Section I, paragraph 2, of the Act provides for an extension to 1 January 2022 of women's retirement rights after reaching 50 years of age. The President of Ukraine for 2014-2019 proposed section 2 of the Act to exclude, taking into account the budget deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not decide on the ex-president's proposal. I would like to point out that today, according to the Ministry of Social Policy and the Pension Fund, between 12 billion and 34 billion dollars a year is needed to implement this standard. It should also be noted that there is still a norm, this is section I, paragraph 1, of the Act, which has lost its relevance in view of the fact that in the 16th year, amendments were made to the 40th article of the Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance, according to which pensioners are expected to provide assistance without limitation of terms, even though this rule provides for restrictions on such terms. In the light of the above-mentioned committee, he has studied the soundness of the proposals made by the ex-president of Ukraine and proposes to approve a comparative table with regard to the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has expressed doubts about the expected budget economy. Taking into account the results of the committee's consideration, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the proposals be supported by the ex-president and that the law be rejected as a whole, as the previous Council should have done. Thank you. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I think we can vote now. Right? Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting for the proposal to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance for the Improvement of Pension Insurance, with proposals by the President dated 31.01.2015 (registration number 0972). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:48]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Kachuri Aleksandro Anatolyevich. "Trust" and "Serial of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u62	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, yesterday and all of us were simply shocked by the news that was published by one of our national MPs, the representative of this parliamentary call by Derkach. We're just shocked by the information that's published. A preliminary analysis has already been made. And the Attorney General's Office has already carried out all of its duties - and has entered into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations, initiated criminal conduct under article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine - this is "State Betrayal" and article 364 is "Determination of the Service Status". Unfortunately, there is no figureman today, today Peter Alexiyovich did not find time to come to Parliament and explain what was happening in these conversations. But we will definitely stand in the position that the investigation will take place as objectively as possible. And, you know, it's no longer necessary for law enforcement to go to Banks and agree on any procedural action. Courts do not have to report what decisions will be made. We unloaded the State Bureau of Investigation and reformed it. We've reformed the Attorney General's Office. We've given the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court the opportunity to deal with cases of top-corruption. And we will insist on justice in Ukraine. Now that's what all Ukrainians are demanding. And that's why, along with our colleagues, we're creating a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the facts that have been published. [[Applause]] Talking to Joe Biden, talking to John Kerry, and the information published by Robert Juliani, are absolutely egregious facts of criminal activity. And we're going to do everything in our power to have an independent legal evaluation carried out and a dot placed on all matters. That's what we went to the election. That's what we're going to be standing on. We're implementing a request for justice. And we're going to make the law one for all: both for the previous presidents, and for the deputies, and for every citizen. Because in Ukraine we have equal rights for everyone. And clearly, the facts that we're going to have in the interim commission of inquiry, we're going to give them to the law enforcement agencies. And the court will rule on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u63	A statement came from two factions replacing the performance: "The Voice" and "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u64	Slaves, horseshoes, the Kremlin's dirt - only such an association arises with a man who represents the "Ukrainian Choice". Yes, the "Serves of the People" are filled with the "Ukrainian Choice" cans. We wonder who today is invited to this rostrum: Byden? Biden spoke from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a representative of the country's strategic partner at a time when Ukraine could have remained alone with the Russian Federation, which had previously marred part of the Ukrainian territory. And we are proud of what our political team has done in the past five years to form an anti-putinian coalition in order to unite not only the United States but also Canada, the European Union, to help Ukraine not find itself in a defolut state. Today, when you celebrate or honor Zelensky, whose anniversary, or your anniversary, has done everything you can to get into history with a scandal in the United States. And I think that today the opposition is helping President Zelenski more, because he is today the President of Ukraine, to preserve the two-party support of our strategic partner. Without the two-party support of our strategic partner, Ukraine will remain alone with the Russian Federation. I want to remind you, just a year ago, Zelensky promised the Ukrainian people to expand the norm format at the expense of the United States and Great Britain. Today, we see that everything is being done to make Ukraine toxic in general. It's toxic in any memory: in the European capitals of the world, in Canada or in America. All these games, they're going to end well for this one of the effebian cans from "The Ukrainian Choice" that just sang sweetly from this rostrum. But this is going to be a very difficult, very difficult story for President Zelensky, and unfortunately for Ukraine. Because today, Ukraine is in all the world's media only in the case of the aggression of the Russian Federation, not the annexation of Crimea, not the theft of Donbas, not the violation of the rights of Crimean Tatars, and you haven't even been able to make a statement that we have the anniversary of the deportation of Crimean Tatars. Not a problem with killing Ukrainians every day, not a violation of the norm format by Russia, but a scandal, a scandal, a scandal where you drag them. And this is your responsibility to the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u65	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the privatization of state and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organizations (registrations 3012, 3012-1). Dear colleagues, let us read and then say: Shame or not. It says: To be sent to the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Dear colleagues, I suggest. We need to put this issue in the agenda. This requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:40:38]] For 252 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:40:59]] For 248 Decision taken. It is suggested that a simplified discussion procedure be followed during the consideration of this bill. Please support and vote. [[11:41:23]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Can we listen to the committee right away? Committee position, committee position. Head of the Committee on Agricultural and Land Policy, Solski Mikola Tarasovich Then we go to the vote. Please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u66	Honorary colleagues, honourable chairman, alternative bill 3012-1, aimed at protecting the rights of employees of state and municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations that have not implemented their right to obtain land (pau), including pensioners of these enterprises, as well as social workers and participants in hostilities, who have not exercised their right to acquire land for private farming. Some of the provisions of this bill need to be reconciled with the legal rules signed by the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the conditions of circulation of agricultural land" of 31.03. In 2020, which regulates that the sale of agricultural land is prohibited. In view of the above, and taking into account the comments made on this issue by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that an alternative bill be sent to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agricultural and land policy for the preparation of the first reading (it is number 3012-1), and Bill 3020, submitted by the People's MP Minko, should be rejected. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u67	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Minko Sergey Anatoliyovich, insists on the speech as the author of the main bill. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u68	Good day, dear Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Colleagues! Today, you and I are considering a very important bill for our society, the purpose of which is to establish justice in land relations. Because of the gaps in existing legislation, for tens of thousands of our citizens have not been able to take advantage of constitutional law and get their share of the land -- their own pie. Similar discrimination is unacceptable. In your view, for example, most of the village’s inhabitants, workers of agricultural private enterprises, have long received their own pie, which is either processed by themselves or leased, receiving a guaranteed substantial income. But there are a lot of people who haven't been able to exercise their right for decades, and to a large extent they're pensioners who could get substantial financial assistance. These people have worked for years in state-owned agrarian enterprises for a meager salary, and the state has given them nothing but a demeaning pension. The mistake of Parliament's previous calls should be corrected. Today, we have the opportunity to ensure justice in land relations and to bring about a logical end to the degradation of state land. I thank you for supporting the agrarian committee for the idea of decomposing state land in the form of an alternative bill, considering that these two bills have divergent and varied approaches. I also propose to the Parliament to support and send the draft legislation in the first re-reading in order to take into account the conclusions of the expert environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we have the idea of both the drafter of the bill and the committee of profile. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Law amending the Ukraine Land Code for Privatization of State and Municipal Agricultural Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations (Registration No. 3012-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:46:53]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents (Registration No. 0032). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:47:28]] For 281 Decision taken. The report is given by the Deputy Justice Minister, Valeria Rudolphovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! People's deputies, I would like to propose to you today a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents. What do I want to say? First of all, this convention was signed only in 2018, which is already quite a while ago, and it's actually problematic that we have many international treaties to ratify just now. One second. We're going to be the tenth state to ratify this convention, which will actually give it life, because after our ratification, the convention will start to work. And in view of that, I ask for the support of this bill, because it will be a good signal for our international partners and, above all, for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u71	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The bill has indeed been designed to implement the internal procedures necessary to take effect this Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents not only in Ukraine but also in general. That is, if Ukraine ratifies this convention, with the tenth ratification we will become the nation that will give life in general to this convention. Its aim is to guarantee the right of the public to access, at the request of the official documents at the disposal of the public authorities. What's important? In signing this convention, Ukraine made two important statements. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Convention, Ukraine states that the definition of the concept of "State authorities" also includes: the legislative authorities of their other functions, the judicial authorities of their other functions, the natural and legal persons, to the extent that they perform public functions or manage public funds in accordance with national legislation. And another important statement made by Ukraine at the signing of this convention. Ukraine claims that, as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, Ukraine’s obligations under the convention in the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol are not guaranteed the full restoration of Ukraine’s constitutional system in these areas. Any authorities, their officials and officials and temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the Crimea AR and the city of Sevastopol and their activities are illegal if these bodies or persons created, chosen or assigned in order not provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and any of their acts and documents are null and void and produce no legal consequences. Please support the ratification of this convention and Ukraine's accession to another fundamental democratic norm of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u73	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u74	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Once again, please give it to Ivanci Klimpush-Cinzadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u75	I can't hear you. I'm sorry. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u76	Colleagues, from "European Solidarity" we propose to support the ratification of this convention, because we have always held to our political power the very principles of democracy, transparency, freedom of speech, access to different media to all kinds of measures, access to different kinds of ideas on different courses. And we believe that this ratification will allow us to move in the direction of a democratic state, the continuation of a democratic state, not to observe what is happening today with the breaking of democratic procedures in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u77	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP will vote and ask all colleagues to support the ratification of this convention. It guarantees the right of the public to access, at the request of the official documents at the disposal of the public authorities. In general, the ratification of the convention demonstrates the State's desire to move closer to European law and international standards in the field of access to information. So, honourable colleagues, our Parliament is showing examples of transparency, and I'm sure we're all now going to support, ratify, this convention. I would also like to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers and say that Parliament is voting for openness. Also, make the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers open and show your desire for international standards of access to information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u79	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, under this law the Council will determine whether or not it is convinced. I've seen great performance, or I can't call it. You know, the soul was with you. You wouldn't have invited me, you would have joined. And then I went to Alexander, the initiator of this performance, and I went to David and I said, "Let's do this today." We can now register an investigative commission for treason. If you're capable of doing this, if you can do it, not just say it, I'm asking you today to register a commission of inquiry to investigate the crimes of the previous authorities, when people were chosen, demanded money from them, and in offshores and OCHAs, they would then extract and dispose of this money, they'd cover up war, and they'd steal themselves. You have two hours and six minutes to do it, and I'm at your disposal. Today, October 30, there is a decree to create this commission of inquiry, but you are forbidden to vote. My uncle from across the ocean said no. The sorority won't let you do that, because your taboo is the persecution of former authorities and the President of the previous one. So if you can, do it today. You still have two hours. The draft decree was passed by the Regulatory Committee on October 30th. You want another one, you register today, let the Regulatory Committee meet and make a decision, and we vote at 11:30. If you can and you want to, you will. And if not, it'll be like a year in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. Who? A kiss? I don't see who's there. No one does. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're in the middle of something. No, I'm sorry. No, it's the same about driving. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents. Ready to vote? Registration number 0032. Please support and vote. [[11:57:07]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 224, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 2, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 18, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, let's get back to our work. Please get ready for work. Dear colleagues, you are invited to attend. A vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure will now be required. Please prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (registration No. 3304) Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:45:51]] For 238. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:46:13]] For 247 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Anticorruption Policy Committee, Janchenko Galini Igorovni. Give me four minutes, please, because from the committee, from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u83	Comrades, good day to you all! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 3304. It will help the state to recover billions of foreign and hidden funds. These are the funds and assets of such prominent activists as Paul Lazarenko, such as some of the representatives of former President Yanukovic’s surroundings, and others who have been parasites in the state for years. At the same time, when it comes to their return, Ukrainian law enforcement often knows where these assets are, where they are buried, but they cannot return quickly. That's why we're proposing a bill that will help law enforcement agencies and anti-corruption infrastructure pay this back. He will give new opportunities, first of all, to file civil suits that will go in parallel with criminal conduct and investigations in Ukraine. To coordinate this work, we're tasked with the so-called ARMA, which is the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Return of Assets. The second important innovation of this bill is Ukraine's ability to involve so-called "fenders". Fans, they're also called legal foundations, or in English Litigation Funds, are professional law firms that invest money and hire lawyers to help states find, arrest and return funds to these countries. As a fee for their work, so - called fangers receive a share of the returned asset. And this is a very important moment. Because this bill clearly states that we don't spend a penny on the government budget to get billions back. So, dear fellows, I urge you to support this bill and give our country an additional chance to recover the funds of the illegal corrupts. While we are delaying, these funds are being confiscated in favor of the budgets and governments of other countries. In 2016, more than $66 million was confiscated by Paul Lazarenka into her budget for Antigua and Barbuda, an island country in the Caribbean. That's our $66 million. Another example is from Latvia. In the last four years, Latvia has confiscated another $70-80 million into its budget of our funds. These are the costs of the Janukovitch environment that will no longer return to Ukraine. So, colleagues, stop stalling, let's vote in the first reading on the basis of this tool called the fangers, and let's give the opportunity to recover the corruption funds. And as a representative of the committee that will report on this issue, I want to say that the committee has supported this bill and recommends it as a basis for adoption. Similarly, the committee recognized Bill 3304 as one that met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. I count on your support, both me and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u84	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u85	Please hand over Jurchishina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u86	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, in fact, we now have a number of serious problems regarding the Agency for the Search and Management of Assets, and the vast majority of them apply, in fact, to how effectively the ARMA manages and does not commit crimes in the management of assets confiscated in Ukraine. You've all heard of the great Ashan case in Odessa County and others. This bill does not touch on these questions at all, and this is the first thing I would like to pay attention to. We're not actually solving the really important problems that are now facing the ARM. Next. This bill has a number of substantive observations both from the Chief Expert Office, both from the Ministry of Justice, and the key problems that my colleague has just talked about, they apply not only to the ARMA, but also, for example, to the fully politicized prosecutor's office, which does not perform its job in interstate groups, investigative groups that the prosecution may form. We have become more than one, and we have had many cases where the poorly drafted drafts, supported by the first reading, have only become worse for the second reading. So in this case, given the observations and the public, and the international partners, and the Ministry of Justice, we have to hold on because these laws have to be (a) complex and (b) qualitative. Which, unfortunately, is not in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u88	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u89	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. It's actually a very good bill, especially in the context of the latest films. I think what Juliana wrote is very good at reflecting that who, what parts, who received, who returned and so on. I think it's absolutely appropriate to have a concept developed by the drafters of the bill that provides for the involvement of independent lawyers, foreign lawyers, who will seek and implement the assets of all Ukrainian officials who have been illegally acquired. You know, there's an MP from a part of the hall from behind, as they say, the gallery said there was an FSB agent here. So I want to tell you that I think Peter Alexiyovich has been recorded for more than one day, and there's talk with Putin. So be very careful with that. Perhaps there will be facts about the factories, about the taxation of the Lipec factory, so be careful. We stand for justice. We don't blame anyone. We want there to be justice in Ukraine, and we will do everything we can to do that. Not like you, putting pressure on law enforcement before, but giving them every opportunity to investigate matters objectively. And stop manipulating, what's wrong is Putin right now, what's wrong is the FSB. These things have been sitting in people's throat for five years! Stop manipulating and engage in legal activities. And for this bill, we vote, and we confiscate all the illegal assets that have earned in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u90	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone. You have a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the search for assets, especially abroad, is now fully regulated. How this is done. To date, the Attorney General's Office, through legal aid, can turn to the state and look for anything that can be arrested and put into custody. ARMA alone is simply unable to do so. She's gonna hire someone for some money. Some say 40 percent, some say 30 percent, and some say 50 percent. I'm sorry, we have mechanisms in place, we have interstate contracts. And otherwise it shouldn't happen because it just looks like the business of those who will work in the ARM and someone has to pay something. The Office of the Attorney-General and the authorized authorities of the State of Ukraine may themselves involve those who need to be involved in the search. It's also the Security Service, and it's an external intelligence, which is why it exists. And to pay someone just by ignoring what we already have, we think it's a business. This law needs to be redrafted, and really define the functions that the ARMA should perform. On its own, I think it's going to be ineffective. First. The second is the waste of our state funds and business for someone. I think we should get him back to work. We're not voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character. I see Aresonkov. Anyone else want it for a reason? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there was a Kachura. Now we have two speeches -- and we're going to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's interesting to hear from the ephebian cans the next anons of recordings to be published. But I would like to remind you that President Zelensky has promised to give the public an answer within two weeks, who wrote the first Prime Minister of Green Pottery. It's been a few months, and there's no Goncharuk anymore, and we still don't know what Ukrainian security is doing when the cans of Ephesus are acquittal. We want to remind you today of the anniversary of the Green Presidency of his promise to his team of answers and what Ukrainian intelligence does. Who writes the highest cabinets? Who then pours it? What kind of TV channels does that come out of? And how does this affect the national security of the State? I am very sorry that the pioneers and the yellows in this room have played and have brought the country into disunity with our strategic partner. Let me remind you, this is the United States of America, not the Russian Federation, as some ephebic people think.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u94	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, two questions that will or should be settled by this bill. The question of the agency's more quality and systemic work, and this is primarily the acceleration of asset recovery processes, let's say, from abroad, their legal escort process is more qualitative. This is an extremely important side. The second is what my colleagues have already talked about, which is the financial side that pays, pays for these services. So it seems to me that this bill deals more with the issue of not State spending, but with other sources. The only thing that needs to be written is extremely clear, extremely transparent and extremely correct, so that there are no questions about what someone is using, or perhaps abuse, as a result of some return on assets. We'll be in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (Registration No. 3304). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:00:19]] For 258. Decision taken. The next issue of the day's agenda is the draft Law on the Establishment of Business Ombudsperson. Reported Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Development, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich. Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Today, the Committee on Economic Development proposes that you reject or withdraw Bill 0944, which is a transitional from the Supreme Council of the previous call. He's lost his relevance, so that's exactly what the recommendation is. But the business ombudsman's work, which is regulated by this bill, has not been lost, and we have to regulate it by drafting a new bill that takes into account the shortcomings of the old bill and corresponds to today's realities. Business Ombudsman -- what is it? It's an organ that helps businesses in the right order to accuse the improper actions of the controlling authorities, its users are mostly small and medium-sized businesses that cannot afford powerful lawyers to fight tax, customs, other our wonderful services. The business ombudsman has been operating in Ukraine since 2014. In his account, more than 7,000 complaints, two thirds of which are settled for business. He's very much liked, he's very good at feedback, because they're good lawyers who actually do their job. So right after we get this old bill off the table, we're starting a motion for a new bill so that this useful initiative for the Ukrainian business has a legislatively regulated status. The new draft of the bill has been drafted by the copyright team, business-ombudsmen and leading business associations in Ukraine and will be proposed for discussion by the people's deputies in the coming days. And while we have to make a decision about rejecting or withdrawing the old bill. So, taking into account the above and following part of article 95 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules, which provides that the Supreme Council may withdraw the bill from consideration if, as a result of the adoption of other legislative acts or for other reasons, the bill has lost its relevance, the Ukrainian National Deputies - members of the Committee have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to withdraw from consideration draft Law 0944 on the Establishment of Business Buildings as one that has lost its relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to reject this bill. The committee's decision is to withdraw the bill from consideration, but, well, it's not exactly in line with the rules of the Rules and it needs to be rejected. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote on the motion for rejection. No, I'm betting on a second-read vote, but the committee's position is to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u99	The committee's position is to reject. We'll bring in a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u100	I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Law on the Business Office (Registration No. 0944). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:05:02]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. David Georgiyovich Arahami Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko. 2077 Bill. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to remove it because there is neither Mr. Cosemyakin nor his faction in the hall. Let's move to better times when they're all going to recover, get out of quarantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u102	I think it's going to be right with our colleagues. That's the right thing to do. At the next meeting, we will definitely consider it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, during our plenary session, a meeting of the Regulatory Committee was held, and the day before, representatives and heads of the deputy factions and groups called on me to make changes to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3511). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:06:44]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a next – one minute – proposal. I'm going to give my word first, if there's no objection, to the MP factions and to the two-minute groups, so they can step out of this draft ruling, and then I'm going to give the floor to the committee head. Is there no objection? None. Please sign up from the MPs and the factions for the performance. All factions and groups, please write it down. All factions and groups, please record again. There's only two. Once again, dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Is there no one who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u103	..please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u104	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u105	Hermit Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u106	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, with regard to this decision, there is indeed a consensus on the leadership of the parliamentary groups and factions, because we are responsible for the fact that the session room should work fully. But I want to point out that it's a good chance to show that we don't have such a consensus when we're building the agenda of our plenary weeks at all. For several weeks now, there has been no draft opposition. In particular, our political power, here we hear that the ephebian cans are shouting about the TSK, thus trying to play the unfriendly aggressor country and create a TSK that can definitely destroy Ukraine's two-party support by our strategic partner -- the United States of America, who over the years has not only provided Ukraine with technical and financial assistance, assistance with reforms, and also with the weapons of non-lethalism. But now they want to bury all of this under political screams for another country's sake, but at the same time they don't put in order the day-to-day TSC, which has long passed even the committee, particularly the temporary investigation committee in the Sheremet case. We remember that in this case the detained veterans, volunteers, and even their own 100 percent, Henprosecutor Rybosapka admits that there was no reason for their detention, that it was a politically motivated matter that had political relevance. Therefore, by taking the opportunity, we again appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to request the next plenary week to place the day’s creation of the TSC on the issue of veterans and volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, with all due respect, when you approach the break and start talking about what should be said during the talks according to the issue that is being discussed, let's first stick to it. So now we're talking about the Change of Calendar Plan. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u109	The "Trust" MPs will support this Order regarding changes to the calendar plan of our work on committee work tomorrow and Friday, because we are responsible for this problem, until unfortunately, our colleague's disease on the coronavirus, and so we will vote in favour of this decision. But I would like to address you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, next plenary week, there must be a decree on Tuesday regarding the work of our colleagues on the Committees of the Supreme Council, which must be done because it is the norm of the Rules. Many of our colleagues in the Trust Group have not been working on committees since the beginning of the cadence, and this is a violation of their demands and violation of the Supreme Council Rules. So let’s do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u110	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u111	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Of course, our MP faction will support the draft of this decree. I'd like first of all to look at the previous speaker, who allows himself to be offended, who allows himself to put any press on the national MPs, on other people, think of something new. We've been tired of your stamps for five years. We have to end this clearly. And whoever's a Communist and a Communist who's been a renegade and a communist, I'm going to personally check and make a parliamentary statement. And I think you had a lot of communists and jaundice in your faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u112	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u113	Rachmanin's word to Sergio, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u114	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sergey Rachmanin, Voice faction. The faction of the Voice political party will support this decision. It's technical, but on the other hand, it's really necessary. There is a need to work fruitfully for two days on committees in order to become fully employed. Once again, I hope that circumstances will allow us to return to the normal regime, which is what voters expect. And my colleagues, I think they've missed a full-time plenary job. And I would like to remind you that we voted, we agreed, at least on the Conciliation Council, on the issue of the government report that introduced the government program. And according to the Rules, we need to consider this issue. Unfortunately, I understand we won't be able to make it today. But I wanted this question to get into the order of the day session, and we wanted to give it to this creative description that the government did. And we hope that the day-to-day proposals made by Voice and Voice will be taken into account in the next plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u116	Sergey Ivanovich, in fact, a hearing of the Government's Action Programme was scheduled for tomorrow, a speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. However, we do have a little change in our working conditions. Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u118	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, in fact we see that the country has just gone to the plateau, but has not gone to the peak of disease on the coronavirus, and I think that we, friends, are in a hurry to begin the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because no one is insured from the fact that we will not again be affected by this disease in the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. We're doing the right thing not to risk the MP Corps. The important thing is that we also remember not only the MP’s corps but also the medics and all our other citizens, who today are not provided with the necessary means. I would also like to say that we support the idea of a government report, and perhaps when the next plenary week is not to be delayed until Friday, but rather to consider it more quickly, perhaps on Tuesday or Wednesday, because there are questions to the government about an action programme that is not approved, there are no professional and non-profile committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think that Parliament has a lot of questions about a government that the government doesn't actually answer today. And this isn't just about fighting the coronavirus, it's about the country's energy security, it's about a number of other issues. And the request, Dmitri Alexanderovich, to take into account the same proposals that the parliamentary group "For the Future" offered and sounded from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the formation of the agenda of the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u120	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u121	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u122	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u124	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u125	Thank you. The country's distinguished national MPs, the honourable colleagues, our faction will vote on this draft decree, but at the same time, Mr. Head. Mr. Head, Dmitri Alexanderovich, remove these "decisions" from you. Look, I have a proposal for you to have a day-to-day order for the next plenary week in proportion to the number of factions, as we agreed with you. So our faction requires that Bill 2795 be introduced to the next order of days -- this is the draft law on wage regulation in the public sector, so that we don't have the Kobolje salaries, so that they all get the same way that ordinary Ukrainians get the money, not millions of dollars, and that we settle the issue. The next project, we demand that it be implemented, 1120 is the draft Emergency Action Ordinance for the cessation of hostilities and the restoration of peace and the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. And the third bill that requires us to put our faction into the agenda is registration number 3323, this is a bill on the write-off of population debt for the supply of natural gas, central heating and the supply of hot water. So we need to understand today that people are in very difficult conditions. And that's why we need our citizens to write off the debt they can't pay because the government doesn't give them money. And in general, power works so badly that people get poor every day. I ask these questions to be put into the agenda of the next plenary meeting. Our faction accounts for 10 percent of the number of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So every tenth bill, we ask for it to be ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u126	Mikhail Miklaiovich, I think it's going to be right, first of all, I understand that you're going to share your salary, because you're a little bit without a mask. That's the first one. I see, yes, but, well, the rules are the rules as agreed. So you will be willing to share it with the medical community. The second question is, what did I ask other colleagues about? We are not currently discussing a decision to include or exclude any of the issues in the agenda of a day session or plenary session. We're talking about changing the calendar plan. So let's be correct, and let's talk about these issues. From that question and the subject that is being really discussed. Thank you. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen next. Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honourable National Deputies, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council, which was announced today at the plenary, discussed the issue of amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Council in connection with the disease of the National Deputy and the faction of the Fatherschina faction of self-isolation, namely, to foresee the work of deputies in committees, commissions and parliamentary factions on 21 and 22 May this year. And in summary, the members of the Regulatory Committee introduced the Supreme Council's Decision 3511 project, which we recommend to Parliament as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Order amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3511). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:19]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of excessive pressure on State-supervised (control) operators to comply with labour and employment legislation (registration No. 0958). The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights is chaired by Trelyakov Galina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a transitional from the eighth call. The bill is designed to reduce the financial burden on the employer. Let me remind you that we passed Bill 1233 on December 12, 2019, and accordingly this transitional bill in some part has lost its relevance. In addition, during our consideration of this bill in a committee that was not subject to any legal review by any national deputy, we had a working group with the participation of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Social Policy, the State Regulatory Service, the State Labour Service, trade unions and employers' organisations, which stressed that the bill needed to be amended, particularly in part of the notion: verification, public oversight measures, obstacles to public control bodies and others. Therefore, taking into account the above, as well as the fact that the Ukrainian National Deputies have not been able to amend the bill in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that Parliament return Bill 0958 to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u130	Is there a need to discuss the matter? No, it's not. I'm betting on the vote to return to the second reading. I am voting on the proposal to return to the second reading of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent excessive pressure on State-supervised (control) operators to comply with labour and employment legislation (registration No. 0958). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:23:06]] For 301 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the determination of criminal offences that are investigated by investigators of the State Bureau of Investigation) (registration number 2560). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:23:45]] For 260 Decision taken. The report is given by Ionushas Sergey Kostinovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head and fellow national MPs! Along with my colleagues, I have worked out and prepared a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine (to determine the criminal delinquency of criminal offences conducted by the investigating authorities of the State Bureau of Investigation). The drafting of this bill is due to the need for a clear definition and legal settlement of the issue of criminal delinquency by investigators of the State Bureau of Investigation. It has to be noted that the correctness was, consider, determined back in 2015 and has not changed yet. Instead, over the past five years, the Supreme Council has made changes to a number of laws that have defined the new structure, authority, and legal status of government authorities. In particular, changes were made to the laws: "The State Service", "The National Police", "The Public Prosecutor's Office" and so on. And Ukraine has created completely different, new state institutions. Yes, our bill proposes to expand, I emphasize, the circle of persons for whom State Bureau of Investigation investigators will investigate crimes. In particular, in the Criminal Procedure Code, the posts of directors of the Office of the President of Ukraine, advisers, assistants, representatives and authorised presidents of Ukraine are added to the State Bureau of Investigation. It is also proposed to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, where it clearly identifies the tasks of this body by bringing them into line. It should be emphasized separately that during the consideration of the bill on the committee, the need to re-examine it in part in the addition of persons belonging to category "A" was considered by a large majority. So, dear fellows, I ask you to support Bill 2560 in the first reading and work with me to prepare for the second reading. Thank you very much for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. And I invite you to speak to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement activities of National Deputy Sergio Olegovich Alekseyev. Please, Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u133	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting considered bill 2560. The essence of this bill. First, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation determined that the main task of the FBI is to prevent, detect, halt and investigate criminal offences brought to its attention in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The second and the main. The bill also amends article 216 of the Ukrainian KPC, which provides for an expansion of the number of DBR subject entities. In particular, this list is extended by the inclusion of the head of the CBC, as well as the heads and members of the Court of Auditors, members of the ARC’s VP, the District Council, the City Council, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, as well as officials of the local self - government, who are assigned to the 1st and 2nd categories of posts, heads of local government administrations, their first deputies and deputies, the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who are sworn to perform their duties in court. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee made a number of proposals for the project. We can think of this as a comment by the committee to this bill. The first is that the project needs to be further developed in part into the investigation of the DBR investigation bodies of socially dangerous illegal activities committed by a person whose office belongs to category "A" of public service posts, i.e. the "A" category officials, as well as compliance with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 December 2019 of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (No. 2260), they have the same subject of regulation. After a comprehensive discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, that a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the criminal offence of criminal offences committed in the investigation bodies of the State Bureau of Investigation be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. I'd like to invite you to the statement of National Deputy Andrija Jaroslavovich Lopushanski, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u135	May I have the floor to Prince Ruslan?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u136	Ah, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ruslan Alexiyovich, if you don't mind, I'd still like to address you, because today you're not the chairman's right, but as the representative of the President of Ukraine, to find out where we are. I'll remind you of history. On December 17, last year, the session hall adopts Law 2260, which includes a new edition of Article 5, paragraph 1, of the DBR Law, where the entire list is appropriate. The Bill of 17 December 2019 is sent by the Head of the Supreme Council to the President of Ukraine for signature. It's been six months, and there's no information on this bill. The President of Ukraine doesn't sign it, the President of Ukraine doesn't return it with his proposals, he doesn't veto it, nothing happens to him. It takes six months -- and the committee initiates the same changes to exactly the same part of the same article of the law. Now I have a question: do you accept anything today, tomorrow the President signs it, and in two days, he signs that bill, why do you do it? What's the point of this work? It's a Sisyphic work, it's the result of this turbulence that they're leading to. So I'd like to start by figuring out whether it's really a gross violation by the President of the Constitution, or whether something's going on that we don't know about, and just after that, we're going to adopt some of these inconvenient bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u138	I invite you to the floor of the National MP, Mr. Danusz Alexander Anatoliyovich, the faction of the Political Party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Lord Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u140	Please, Lord Neklud.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, how much better would it be for a judge of the Constitutional Court or of the Supreme Council of Justice than for a judge of general jurisdiction, or for an appeal judge, the Supreme Court? How much better is it for senior officials of local self - government bodies than for senior officials of the state? Should they be the subject of a criminal investigation? Should a person be responsible for the crimes committed by a private or principal body of law enforcement agencies? Simple questions that have no clear answer at the moment. I think that everyone should be equal before the law, so there's a need to prepare and draft this bill, 2560, in order to bring criminal relations into order. That is, those who commit crimes must be held accountable, and we must remove all barriers on the way to the rule of law and order in society and in the state. So let us, colleagues, vote in favour of Bill 2560 and amend article 216 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code so that tomorrow all the authorities who committed the crimes will be punished and held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u142	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, today, one of the most powerful in the list of merits said that we had undertaken a reform of the State Bureau of Investigation. I was just saying this morning, and I'm saying again, we've reformed so much that we don't actually have the full legitimate leadership of this fundamental law enforcement body. This should be of interest to everyone, because it's the D.B.I.D. that's going to be chasing MPs if they suddenly do something bad. So the quality of this work is fundamental to us. You know, we didn't choose a conductor, and now we decide what to play. We can't move the D.B.R.'s mandate right now, taking into account what Knyazevich was talking about, and taking into account the actual circumstances of the lack of leadership. So I encourage you to focus on the formation of legitimate leadership of the D.B.I., and then on the question of whether or not it is a case. We will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u144	Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u145	Please give me the word of Grigori Mikolaiovich Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u146	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, there are such discussions in this room about the fact that there is no leadership in the State Bureau of Investigation. Let's do institutions anyway. In view of the State Bureau of Investigation, there was a friendly vote, a removal of the law, and extended authority. The question in the 216th and the consideration of this bill is only about what needs to be determined and broken the maximum consequence, and about giving law enforcement authorities what needs to be done. As for other bills that the President has not signed, or others have expressed their thoughts to the national MPs. I want to say that the whole question is only about the tasks of the law enforcement agency, but not more. The 216th Bill has been drafted and has been given specific powers, and those persons who are being investigated by the State Bureau of Investigation, to be given authority to investigate criminal conduct. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill and vote in favour. And I'm counting this as the first step to actually dividing the powers between all the law enforcement agencies, so that everyone can understand who and what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u148	Thank you. All of them? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then we'll move on. Ah, Aresonkov, Batenko, and after that vote. Aresonkov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, Aresonkov, the "Trust" MP. Indeed, serious discussions about the State Bureau of Investigation, beginning with the formation of leadership, the creation of working conditions for the Bureau, and so forth. I agree with my colleagues that it is desirable to make a fundamental decision. And really, if we accept the bill, it'll take everything into account. But we have found that at the stage of setting up law enforcement, there are really issues that need to be addressed, including 216 articles. By consequence, tell me, such officials as the head of the Central Electoral Commission, authorized by the President of Ukraine, heads of administration, and so on, are officials who make extremely responsible decisions and, accordingly, the consequences may be negative if they are mistakes. That's why there's got to be D.B.I.'s.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u150	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we believe that everything must have its own consistency. First, allow Parliament to delegate its delegates to a competition commission, an independent competition for the election of the DBD head. We saw how we successfully failed such representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the entire commission. Why did you fail? Because we see abuse by representatives who represent only one political power. So if there is this abuse of the head of the DBR now, how will the DBR affect the institutions that we consider independent, and that's what we consider to be the House of Accounts, and especially the independent institution, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Today, by directing the application to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, we want to see this institution as an independent institution, not one that will be vulnerable because of its work on the part of the State Bureau of Investigation. I think this bill needs work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the determination of criminal offences that are investigated by investigators of the State Bureau of Investigation) (Registration No. 2560). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:38:32]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (registration number 2458). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:39:08]] For 251 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Gerus Andry Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u153	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, the drafting of a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on housing and utility services is based on the need to improve the rules and regulations governing the provision and consumption of housing services, their payment, the formation and installation of prices, the tariffs on utility services, and the settlement of transitional issues after the introduction of the Housing Services Act from May 1st last year. The bill provides for the introduction of public housing and utility contracts, which greatly facilitates the procedure for the conclusion of contracts, both for public service providers and for users of services, to avoid additional financial costs associated with the conclusion of contracts in writing. However, according to the consumer’s wishes, a contract can also be concluded in writing. The bill is socially significant because it applies to every consumer in the country and is aimed at protecting the rights of consumers. He organizes the activities of utilities, multi-house managers, and is essential and long - awaited. The Committee on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on 29 November and 13 December considered Bill 2458 and supported its adoption on the basis of the proposals of MINREGION and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In particular, it is proposed to remove from the text the position regarding possible unauthorized access to housing or other immovable property object, which is part III of Section I, paragraph 15. The committee also proposes to transfer from the "Final Positions" to the body of the law as a permanent applicable standard of provision for the provision of technical maintenance of internal house gas supply systems, namely section I, paragraph 10. The proposed proposals are set out in the draft Supreme Council regulation proposed by the committee. Please support the committee's decision and take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Two more minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u155	I'd like to emphasize again. I know there have been discussions, fears among the people's deputies about the possibility of unauthorized entry into the home. So I would like to point out that on the committee, we've finalized this bill, and we've cleared it. To date, this bill does not provide for unauthorized access to housing. In the Committee's version, that's the rule. So please support the committee's decision and take it as a basis for the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist, Nestor Ivanovich? Two-in-a-two-in? Please sign up for factions, two for, two against. My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u157	Dmitry Lubota, 177 District, Kharkish, "Serve of the People" faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The issue of housing-communal tariffs is probably one of the most painful in Ukraine, which has not been properly addressed for many years. On this subject, I have already gathered dozens of appeals from the inhabitants of the multistory and from their unifications. What do people want? Justice and transparency in fixed tariffs and administration. That is why it is important for us to support this bill, which, inter alia, regulates the process of making agreements on the provision of public services and the process of transition to relations in this area. The draft law on the subject of legal regulation falls within the sphere of energy does not conflict with EU law. However, according to Ukraine’s international obligations, it is necessary for the Government of Ukraine to consult the European Commission on a bill that may be made between the first and the second readings. I'm the co-author of this bill. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u160	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u161	Bondar Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u162	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u163	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, apart from what colleagues have said, it organizes contract making for people who get housing services, most importantly, how much they're going to pay for it. So "European solidarity," not understanding how tariffs are going to change, whether they're going to rise and how long, between the first and the second readings, we're going to keep going. We will see that it will be passed in general, which is the law of second reading, and then we will make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. But essentially, the question is, if you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Please pass the word to Coltunovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u166	Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u167	Thank you. Dearest Nestor Ivanovich, distinguished Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! In fact, it's a matter of dealing with housing issues. As you know, in 2014-2019, we have a substantial increase in housing and utility tariffs. When we ask questions about the settlement of this issue, we are particularly interested in question number one. First. The average customs value of the import gas decreases by 2.8 times, from $339 to 122. Why do we have a population that only reduces gas 2.1 times? There's no parity. That's the first one. The second, even more painful question, about heating tariffs and hot water. We have the heating tariff left at 38.55 per meter squared. Our faction insists that if we have a gas component that's so important in terms of tariffs, we turn that issue into an economic plane -- and at least double the fuel tariff for the population. Another question is the hot water supply, where the gas component is also extremely important. Also today, 98 bracelets per cubic metre of hot water. There is no change in the tariff on hot water supply. So what do we settle? Well, the committee head said that they would rule out entry, or, more precisely, admission, entry into housing. But the issue of disproportionate increase in tariffs, which remains unresolved today, remains unresolved. As a result, we have increased debt for residential services. After all, after the first reading, we're going to work on this bill so that we can still review the housing and utility tariffs, such as heating tariffs and hot water supplies for the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u168	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u169	Please pass it on to the Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u170	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, before the chairman of the committee of this bill, the position of the "Trust" group was not supported by the bill. But we have heard that from the bill, we have removed a standard that allowed communicators to enter their homes without the consent of residents or owners to shut down water, electricity, or gas. It was unacceptable. At present, the bill contains a number of other provisions that need to be resolved. That's why the "Trust" group's position: in the first reading, we're going to support the bill. It needs to be worked out and resolved by a second reading vote. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u172	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I want you to understand what you're about to vote for. I want to remind you of a video that's taken millions of views when you didn't use gas, and it's got thousands of dollars to pay. The same is what we propose to do in this law. We share the idea of paying for thermal energy and paying for the transport of thermal energy. And it's quite possible that after that, people cut off from centralized heating will receive payments and will be charged for transporting nonexistent thermal energy. That's the first one. The other one. You should all understand that once this bill is passed, companies that provide services will be given the right to enter the premises without hindrance. This is in direct contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine. If you're willing to vote for this, then the parliamentary group "For the Future" is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u174	Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (registration number 3458). Ready to vote? 2458. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:50:44]] For 239. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law amending the Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for debt relief measures in the wholesale electricity market) (registration No. 2390). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:51:25]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes before we go through this. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u175	Yuri Kamelchuk, 124 constituency, Lvivščina, Czervonograd Honourable Ukrainians, distinguished Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, your attention to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for measures aimed at repaying the debt that was created in the wholesale electricity market). On October 21, 2019, the Codex of Bankruptcy became effective. Earlier, during June-May 2019, 156 claims were received from electricity producers for the timely payment of debts for the purchase of electricity for more than 15 billion dollars, as well as external claims for sums exceeding 23 billion dollars. Thus, there are signs of insolvency in the Energy Company, which, according to the terms of the code, is the basis for the discovery of a business bankruptcy case. Along with the bankruptcy infringement, the court imposes a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors’ claims, which effectively blocks settlement mechanisms. The inability to conduct calculations and the specificities of bankruptcy may lead to the removal of the company’s management from the company, and thus the state may lose control of property for 30 billion dollars. As a result of the bankruptcy of Energy, generating companies will have to pay off their receivables for more than 28 billion dollars, and this will have a negative impact on the cost of their shares and on Ukraine's investment attractiveness in general. Thus, this could ultimately lead to the inability to distribute electricity and to the fact that consumers are deconstructed. Please support this bill 2390, accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u176	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u177	My colleagues, congratulations! Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, indeed this bill was considered on a committee and committee previously approved and recommended for consideration in the first reading, acceptance as a basis. What is a serious threat? The threat of energy security, which is in the midst of an energy crisis that has provoked and so, to this day, the rise in prices for consumers both for manufacturers and for industry. It threatens Ukraine's economic and energy sovereignty as such in the end. Therefore, the proposed bill is one way to prevent this situation from worsening in the energy market. The committee therefore recommended that he be accepted on the first reading as a basis when it considered him at its meeting. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u178	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u179	Thanks again for the word. I'm going to try to use that point again to remind everyone that it's 30 billion dollars. It's about the electricity market and the state-owned enterprise, which, if it goes bankrupt, we're actually going to have a problem with the distribution of electricity and the supply of electricity to the population. So this set of bills, from 2386 to 2390, solves this issue and leaves the state-owned enterprise under state control. And also, with these bills, we're going to be dealing with calculations between state-owned enterprises and Ukrenergo, which will be able to continue to distribute electricity. And we'll have light in every home. I ask you to support this bill as a whole, on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u180	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to say that this bill was really discussed at a committee meeting. But what I'm saying is that this bill is a derivative of Bill 2386. And what do I mean? I mean, this bill is supposed to ensure the timely implementation of all the debt repayment mechanisms in the wholesale market, but it is only helpful because it does not solve the global problem and does not perform the function that was laid down in Bills 2386. The Explanatory Note makes it clear that the logically auxiliary bill is approved when there is a clear understanding of the system of organization of the process of removing this issue that we are talking about today. Therefore, it cannot be confirmed and supported in all, 2390, when there is no fundamental bill, 2386, which has not even been considered in the first reading. It's in shape. Now, in terms of content, essentially. In fact, we have the introduction of another exclusion from the rules of a moratorium on bankruptcy. I think that any exceptions to the rules would discredit the rules themselves, discredit the value of the law, and that's what the Committee's conclusion on anti-corruption is about. The bill does not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation today. The political party "European Solidarity" will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u182	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u183	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Boris the alien.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u184	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u185	Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! This bill is aimed at implementing energy laws in the field of energy, in particular the specialised directives and regulations of the European Union on the functioning of the electricity market. It introduced the transition to a new competitive model of the electricity market in Ukraine. Such a transition must be accompanied by a series of mandatory measures that must be taken at the national level to ensure the introduction of a new electricity market. First of all, this refers to the draft law on measures to pay off the debt for electricity, which was created in the wholesale electricity market (registration number 2386), which the Supreme Council adopted as the basis for 30 April of the current year. The bill is derived from the bill. Its position is proposed to establish a moratorium on the bankruptcy of the wholesale electricity supplier DP "Energy" by establishing the duty of the household court to refuse to open and introduce criminal administrations. It is clear that Bill 2386 is a key bill, and perhaps it was worth waiting for its final approval by the Supreme Council, but we think it might have been a parallel process. So the Trust Group will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u186	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u187	Please give me the word of Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u188	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, this has already been said, and our faction also insists that mainly Bill 2376 should be cleared of lobbying standards for the debt write-off of the company, which belongs to the well-known oligarch. It is enough to lobby the interests of one particular person who is now considered, and it is not without reason, unfortunately, the owner of an active government. Now for the second one. Mr. Dmitry Aleksandrovitch asked to speak despite the rather high resonance of the famous story solely on the subject. So here's to the subject. Where did all this debt come from? And we know from these videos when the previous president of Ukraine reported to the vice president of the United States that, at the request of the IMF, tariffs had to be raised by 75 percent, and he increased by 100 percent. And it's called "reform," and that's exactly how reforms were discredited in the eyes of millions of citizens. Moreover, thanks to these films, we now know how much the sovereignty of Ukraine costs: it costs only one billion dollars, unfortunately. What's more, those who are now shouting about Russian provocations, let them show me in these films at least a reference to the word "Russia," at least to the word "Donbas," at least to the reference to "jewelinas" -- no. This rhetoric by our previous authority and its supporters has now been saved exclusively for the electorate in the Supreme Council. Instead, the previous president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich, dealt with personal, solely personal, political issues with a strategic partner in America. So it's very sad that we have the word "patriotism" being discredited because we now know the value of this patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-20-m0.u190	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for measures aimed at repaying the debt created in the wholesale electricity market) (registration No. 2390). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all.
