ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine's request for an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on two issues: the first question is the appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the second question is the appointment of the Minister of Economy. There was a time for 10 o'clock, but there's an offer now to consider this question. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Ready? Ready. Please register. [[09:18:47]] There are 359 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (unfortunately, there are no such today), President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski of Ukraine participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome Mr. President. [[Applause]] Please sit down. In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making at an extraordinary meeting is proposed for consideration. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to articles 106, 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution, President Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Zelenski submitted to the Supreme Council on 16 March 2020 a written application for the appointment of Procurator General Irina Valentinovna Venedictova. The right materials are given to you. In accordance with the requirements of article 212 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the following procedure is proposed: a statement by the President, a candidate for the post of Attorney-General, a candidate for the post of Attorney-General, a co-report by the Head of the Committee on Law Protection and statements by MPs and groups, after which we will proceed to the vote. However, given the situation, there is a proposal to give the floor to President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine, after which he is a candidate for office, and not to go into deep discussion and discussion. Okay, if you insist, it'll be different, no questions asked. The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u2	Good morning! I wish everyone good health! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Taking into account the situation in our country, the need to ensure the uninterrupted and highly professional work of all the authorities of the State, especially the law enforcement authorities, was initiated by me at the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of granting consent to the appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thus, according to article 85, paragraph 25, part one, paragraph 11, of article 106, and part three, article 131-1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I propose the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Venedic Irina Valentinovna as Attorney General of Ukraine. Irina Valentinovna doesn't need a special representation. A well-known lawyer, a doctor of legal science, in the past your colleague, a national deputy of the Ukrainian People's Party, is currently serving as head of the State Bureau of Investigation. Convinced that, above all, the professional and moral qualities of the candidate I have proposed will allow for the stable and coordinated work of the prosecutor's offices, the eradication of corruption in this system and the effective investigation into the end of loud criminal cases. And I think I want to say for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the Attorney-General may be a woman. [[Applause]] But it seems to me that in the history of Ukraine, she will first enter as a professional and effective person. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u3	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Attorney General Irina Valentinovna Venedictova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends. First of all, of course, I thank Mr. President very much for his high trust. And there was a committee, a committee meeting, and people's deputies who supported it. I understand that this trust, it's not just an honor to me, it's not just an advance for me, it's a big responsibility. I'll do anything to make sure you never think that this decision was a mistake. I promise the people of Ukraine to carry out their duties conscientiously, honestly, and conscientiously. I promise not to sell things, not pour them. I promise not to return the prosecutors. [[Applause]] I promise prosecutors to restore a powerful state institution so that they feel independent, protected, and needed by this state. I promise to stand on the foundations of the rule of law. I promise to build a prosecutor's office according to international standards. We understand that this is a chain of justice, and in our country there must be justice every day. We need it as air, and we will restore it. As for the first steps. First of all, it's of course an audit and a case, and a state of staff in the prosecution's office. You know that there are 226 prosecutors on the threshold of the illustration, 400 prosecutors who were released in the fall are already on trial for renewal. It is therefore necessary to make very important and legal decisions in order to ensure that, on the one hand, the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office continues without distortions and on the other hand, so that it does not happen in such a way that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not lie down after completely legal procedural decisions have been made. That's why there's going to be a lot of work here. Second, criminal conduct. We all know very well that the coordination work of law enforcement has not taken place in the last six months. There are a lot of factual matters, in the same conduct, open conduct both in the D.B.R., both in the N.A.U.U., and in the B.S.A. So it's very important that we coordinate so that we can reduce crime substantially, and the prosecution becomes an effective state institution. Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Irina Valentinovna, please, I understand that there will be questions. Any questions? Write down only those who have questions, please. The factions. But only those who have questions, please write it down. Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u6	Good afternoon! Dear Mrs. Irina, welcome to such a potential assignment. I wish you great success in your position. But I would be very interested to know whether the suspicions that were investigated and signed in the Attorney General's Office for the previous Attorney General, including those directed from the State Bureau of Investigation regarding President Prashenko, will be investigated and signed? Will you sign these suspicions? Are they factual? And will these investigations be completed? That's the first question. And the second question. The case of Sternenko, who became one of the problems of the Attorney General's past, and the case he was trying to hide very clearly, would she be investigated by the Attorney General's Office? Will it be returned from the Ukrainian Security Service? Will It Be Done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u7	Mr. Alexander, I can answer all these questions very quickly because they are essentially in the same plane. Everything that can be quickly and legally completed will be quickly and legally completed. We have now, in fact, a time in the country that we have no ability to just sort things out for a long time. Thus, legal decisions will be made as quickly as possible. Next, we are well aware that both investigators and prosecutors are independent subjects. And they're going to move in these things, absolutely independently, completely professionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u8	Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u9	.deputy Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u10	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, a distinguished candidate! In fact, the law enforcement authority in the form of the Attorney General's Office is the body responsible for all investigations into criminal conduct in the status of procedural leadership. In fact, the trial director is responsible for the discovery, the investigation of all criminal conduct. But in fact, the institution was blocked and stuck like criminal misconduct. You're not saying anything about this, because I think, as the deputy head of the committee, this institution can unload about 40 to 50 percent of the bodies of the investigation. And they can pay more attention to the investigation of criminal conduct. The second question. You're talking about audits. The audit is conducted every year in law enforcement agencies. And there are currently criminal prosecutions for the loss of criminal conduct that is not actually available. What are you going to do about it in old school??
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u12	With regard to the first question: criminal offenses. I support this bill, and I hope that by 1 July it will become effective and we will start working. That depends on the Supreme Council, actually. And I hope you'll really get into those lines so we can start working with him from July 1st. As far as auditing is concerned, you have pointed out quite correctly, but it should be noted that the state of affairs that is now, the efficiency of the prosecution's work has decreased significantly. Thus, criminal conduct, which is closed, has become so evident that when a so - called change takes place, some criminal conduct has simply closed down in various law enforcement agencies. I think we need to see how legitimate this has been and how far the perspective of these things really is. As far as I'm concerned. I'm really worried about cases that have been going on for a very long time, where the confiscation of property and, in fact, there is a need to revitalize the prosecutor's position as to what a legal decision has been made, or whether there is to be a draw-up in the state's budget for this arrested property, or whether the courts make other decisions. So, I think it's our job to activate the prosecutor's work today. That's the main thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u13	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u14	Dear Mrs. Vendiktova, you know, the most valuable thing for our state is independence and democracy. Even the honourable Mr. President celebrated this when he said that you can't hang because there is a democracy. We know that the NABU is now investigating the political persecutions associated with the records in Mr. Truba’s office, which have shown that, unfortunately, there is a telephone law and political interference in our country’s investigation. We saw the case of Sophia Fedina, a politically motivated case of political persecution by a national MP. How much are you, as Attorney General, really going to be politically independent, as long as you don't follow political instructions, especially now, when we have a special responsibility because we limit civil rights through quarantine, people can't express their point of view, you have a very large responsibility for preserving democracy and the absence of political persecution? Do you guarantee that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u15	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that every lawyer in this state, starting with a public defender and ending with the Attorney-General, must stand on the principles of the rule of law. This principle deprives us of other mechanisms and corridors than what you said. So I don't think I need to fold paint. The Attorney-General can always go to the Supreme Council committee, you can always invite him to a meeting of the Supreme Council, you can always come to him and ask him all the questions. There is no political persecution in Ukraine, and the thief should be in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u16	Thank you. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u17	Sussun Inni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u18	Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u19	Mrs. Irina, please tell me a few weeks ago you stated that we need to repeal the Amnesty Act of the Midan participants. What is your position on this issue today? Do you still believe that we need to repeal this law, or has your position changed? And the second question is different. The tragedy of Ukrainian justice is that we've always had "handsome" attorney generals, general prosecutors who did the President's will, the will of the majority party, not followed the letter and spirit of the law. Can you go back to the President right now and tell him right here when the whole Supreme Council and the entire Ukrainian people are looking at you, that you can say no to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u20	First of all, regarding the law, as you call it, about amnesty. I want to point out that if you read the law correctly and you see that this law is criminal and procedural, you'll also have some questions. So let's be honest here in Parliament. Or we recognize the fact that the courts in their decisions are already circumventing the law. So the law enforcement authorities have either to enforce criminal law or law. And that's why it's precisely the task of the Supreme Council to bring legislation into line. It can't be like that when we're here -- white and fluffy, and here -- we're looking for some result. You know, Case 1455 is on pause. So we just have to understand here: either we're implementing a special law that contradicts criminal procedural law, and we're standing on a pause, or we want a comprehensive, objective investigation, and our special laws meet the laws that are higher in power. So please, the national electorate, determine whether you are obeying the laws you are enacting and doing so logically or not. This is about your first question. As far as your second question is concerned. The president of Ukraine, Green Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, gives no instructions to any law enforcement agency. I served for two months. So to say such things as you suggest, you need to know what to say them. President Zelensky wants order in this country and gives maximum freedom to the law enforcement authorities to do so. But this freedom is limited by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u21	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski on the report as head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Law Enforcement met for an extraordinary meeting. The members of the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the President of Ukraine, Irina Venedictov, be appointed as Prosecutor General and that a decision be taken. I would like to add that the time when Mrs. Irina takes up this high office is extremely difficult for all of us and the whole state. I think that every national MP, and especially the members of the Committee on Law Enforcement, will always stand by and support those steps that will be taken by the Attorney-General in this high office. I call you to the rule of law and to the principle of irreversibility of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u23	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, there are speeches by MPs and groups. Write down only those who wish to speak. The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u24	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Venedict’s Irina Valentinovna, who served as chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proved to be an experienced and professional leader. She also managed to identify weaknesses, gaps, and problems in the work of the Bureau over a short period of time. She formed a new team and set up a clear work plan and a solution to problems. All of this we could hear during Mrs. Irina's report in this session room. The "Trust" MP expects a new person in this office to use more effective mechanisms of work and justify the trust that society has given her today. Therefore, the “Trust” MP supports the President's candidacy for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u25	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u26	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Irina Valentine's Day! In fact, the first question that society is currently concerned about is peace, the second is justice. You, as Attorney General, will depend on whether justice will be realized in our country. I would ask you first to keep in touch with the Supreme Council. Because people who walk the earth, national MPs, especially senior officials, know what the problems are in places where they take businesses, where they buy prosecutors, where they buy prosecutors. So that you can answer these questions so that you can meet, find time, respond to references. Secondly, I'd like to wish you real success. Because your success may depend on the success of our country in general. Because justice is an investment attraction in the country. Justice is and will the entrepreneur want to stay in Ukraine or leave. Justice is when every citizen decides what to do next: whether he wants the children to live here or whether he will look for another for his child in the future. You've got a lot on your plate. You have an extremely high mission. But you have to understand that if we don't see decisive action on your part, then, let me put it this way, that fate might be the same as the previous Attorney General. So I ask you to do every day the letter of the law, to start your work day with your Procuratorial and Constitutional Act, to act in accordance with conscience and law, and everything will be fine. You will be a successful Attorney General and will present your name with gold letters in the history of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Prosecutor’s Office. Good luck! Good luck to your team! Make every Ukrainian citizen feel that there is justice in Ukraine, that's what's most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u27	Irina's heroine. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Mrs. Vendiktova, as head of the State Bureau of Investigation, is short on this position, but she has already made her mark. She was able to mark herself, in fact, by turning this body, which is very important to the State, into a tool for political repression and persecution. Mrs. Vendiktova as head of the D.B.I. stands behind the persecution of our colleague Sophia Fedina. Ms. Vendiktova is the appointment of Januković Babikov's lawyer as her deputy. Ms. Vendiktova is an initiative to adopt the Law on the Distinguishment of the Law on the Amnesty of Courses. This is a threat to the persecution of thousands of people who participated in the Dignity Revolution. Ms. Vendiktova as Attorney General is an attempt by President Zelensky to change his prosecutor Rybosapka by 200 percent of his prosecutor, Vendiktov, who needs him to carry out political repression. That's why the faction of European Solidarity will not vote for Mrs. Venice. Mrs. Vendiktova is an anti-Majdan rematch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u29	Thank you. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u31	Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u32	118.5 is how many points Mrs. Irina scored when she tried to become a judge of the Supreme Court. Why is this ball important? Because this ball was lower than the passerby. This is what we are talking about right now is the appointment of the Attorney General. This is the Attorney General who was unable to pass an examination to become a judge of the Supreme Court. I'll tell you, as a university teacher, it's not a big deal. After an incursion, students are expelled from the university, not transferred to the next course. And this needs to be clearly fixed today. The other one. We just heard Mrs. Vendektov's position on the Maydan case. I'm not going to address the President right now. I'm not going to address Mrs. Venedict. I'd like to address you colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction. I know dozens of you were standing on Maidan. You stood on Maidan and stood up for the same values that we did. Is it normal for you to vote for a person who, in a direct text from this rostrum, said that you should cancel the amnesty for the rangers? If this is normal for you, Mr. Bujansky, and for you, for everyone who is voting for it right now, it's your responsibility, you're going to talk about it to the families of the people who died in Maidan, you're going to talk about it to your children when you're asked if you voted for the person who wants to cancel the amnesty for the rangers. It's your responsibility today, not the President, not Mrs. Venedict, it's your word and your responsibility, which button you're going to press. Think carefully about how you will sleep that night when you appoint a person who does not explicitly support Maidan, who has appointed Babikova as her deputy. By the way, I have a question: is he going to be the head of the D.B.I. now, after you're gone? And that's another question that I wanted to hear the answers to. The question is now to no one but the people who are going to press the green button. This is your responsibility and this is your political future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u33	Thank you. Replica Bujansky, he was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u34	Dear colleague, I would ask you, for the sake of remembering those who died in Midan, not to speculate with Maidan on matters that have no direct bearing. We're appointing the Attorney General to ensure a fair investigation of the Maydan case, which I hope is why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u35	Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u36	The distinguished national MPs, the faction and the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is against political persecution, but it tends to be more professional and the Attorney General. And we would, in fact, propose more professional assignments, and we'd hear a program from the Attorney-General that he wants to change for coordination, for example, the law enforcement system. The law enforcement system is not just the Attorney General's Office. The law enforcement agencies that enter the law enforcement system are being partially reformed, including we have seen such a reform as the Attorney-General's Office, renaming only the body that started and began to be called in a new way, but the problems remain old. Why? Because of the lack of a systematic approach to reforming any law enforcement agency, it simply stops normal work and the performance of law enforcement functions. What do I mean? We haven't heard from the candidate that it's still necessary to bring the dijitalization process into line with the Single Registry of Trial Investigations, and to form that work, the entire plan of work of the law enforcement agencies, aimed only at the development and control of the GDR. What did a candidate in the Attorney General say about criminal conduct that is old, someone will review? I mean, the Attorney General first has to follow the law. Unfortunately, a permanent mechanism for criminal investigation has been established in Ukraine. Criminal conduct takes 18 months each to investigate, and after 18 months, when a decision is made by an investigator and a procedural supervisor to close criminal conduct and verify the facts that have already been investigated, the Attorney General, according to the old history, raises those criminal conducts five years later, cancels them and continues to investigate them. These are unacceptable facts that are in violation of the law, and this has given us an eternal mechanism. We did not hear from the Attorney General what it meant to examine old criminal conduct. It is politically necessary to move away from this system, to continue or stop this reform, to balance the new reform, to make decisions about the Academy of Public Prosecutions, which we believe has been stolen, and to rename it as a training center, and to deprive the entire curriculum and professorship of scientific development. We would like to hear such facts that it is already a candidate for the Attorney-General who has already applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u37	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u38	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, I think we are now considering another matter far more important than we think is just the appointment of the Attorney General. Why was Rybosapka released? We need to look very carefully at all the reasons. The first is dependence on external sources of government. On the Internet, there were letters from embassies on Telegram Channels that were running, who would be assigned to a competition commission, how to release or not release our prosecutors, how to investigate or not investigate criminal cases, and so on. This was essentially the Office of the Attorney General. That's the first thing that needs to be broken and changed by the new Attorney General. If you are the Attorney General of Ukraine, be the Attorney General of Ukraine, not the prosecutor of other states. The other one. During the election, everyone promised a radical change in the law enforcement system. We have six law enforcement agencies: there is no interpretation. Or you, as the Attorney General, point out in this order, you conduct all the quality investigations and you give quality changes to the country, you coordinate what needs to be changed, or you end up like the previous Attorney General in six months. You have to change the system and be in charge of these reforms, clean up the last economic investigations of the Security Service, prepare these bills jointly and bring them to the Supreme Council, remove economic investigations from the IMF system and other non-functional functions, create the Bureau of Financial Investigations, but it's the only one who's doing the economics, not the fact that all six law enforcement agencies are running around all businesses, factories and collecting taxes just to make a personal fortune. So that these tens of thousands of criminal cases, which are essentially blackmail and extortion in Ukraine today, will not be violated. To finally get the order in order, both in the tax office and in the customs office. And this is your competence, if you're really the Attorney General, they're going to start to understand that this Sabbath needs to be completed. And in fact, you have to be in charge of these transformations, and as the Attorney General in close liaison with the President of Ukraine, with the Parliament, you have to put order in the law enforcement system. Then these will be qualitative changes. And the third factor, which, of course, today, many people have said, is to answer all the criminal resonance cases that Ukraine has seen for 10 years, and they're talking about, and the interpretations that it doesn't have, and we still haven't received an answer as to what's really been going on in Maidan, what's been going on in Odessa, what's been going on in the other dozen criminal cases that many people have been discussing these years and we haven't seen anything. We did not see any of these cases before the court or even see documents on these cases that give any answers. So you have three tasks that I've outlined: to stop being under external rule, to carry out a qualitative reform of the complex law enforcement agencies and to answer for the resonant.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next one is from the nationals. Excuse me, speeches from the national MPs for up to six minutes. Please sign up for the speeches by the national MPs. Then we go to the vote. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Six minutes. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u40	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, respectable citizens of Ukraine! You know, I have to go back to being a person, because we're now looking at the staff of the Attorney General. And we have to figure out who in our country should really serve the law and protect the law and every Ukrainian. What do we have? Yeah, we were offered a woman -- that's great, I welcome that. Femida's goddess is a woman. But the goddess Femida was blindfolded, not with the portrait of the Servant of the People. The goddess Femida must be really uninvolved, and she must be one that doesn't look who's in the party. What do they give us? Mrs. Vendiktova sat here with us three months ago in this session hall as a member of the People's Service. Is this the unattractive Attorney General? We all know that President Zelensky loves that Henprocuror is thousands of percent his man. He said that about Ryeboshapka, so Ryboshapka is your 100 percent boyfriend. Now you want a thousand percent of your girlfriend? I see. I'm not surprised at that at all, because what are the actual tasks for Mrs. Vendiktova, I think? Because, as my colleague, Mrs. Vendiktova has said, it is a unique case, my friends, that the election has not passed before the judge of the Supreme Court, and after that we are invited to make it the Attorney General of Ukraine. It's like not finishing school, going to university. But we're told: it's normal, please do it. And now they're gonna scream. It's not all the viewers who see him burn in the "Serves of the People" right now. Are you all going to go all the way to me now, or is it just one Zelensky? So I'm going to continue and finish my opinion. Dear friends, we are offered a politically committed figure, we are offered a man who will be guided by the President's instructions. Why? Because she has two tasks: the first task is political persecution. That's why we're already hearing the fifth president here, and we're hearing some names right now in the session room. Because that's the main thing: when there's nothing to eat, when there's nothing left to eat in the fridge, when people are fed up, the only thing that's left is having a show, having a show, and now they're doing it. [[Noise Nodes]] Now let's move on. Oh! You don't have to yell at me, I'll go on. The second is what she has to do. The second task of Mrs. Vendiktova is to protect her own. (Come on, Zelenski, give it to Zelenski.) The second task is to protect our own because there is no spring landing. That's what I said because we need to plant ours for Oman. What were you doing in Oman, perhaps finally telling the country? Maybe those MPs who worked here -- tobacco change -- minus 3 billion dollars to put their pockets in. Where is their responsibility? You had to promise this law, President. Why is there no responsibility to your deputies for the fact that three billion dollars in economic crisis are simply thrown out? Here's another one, Mr. Jermak. I have one question. Mr. Jermak, are you a Cossack or are you an exiled Cossack? I have a simple question for you: what do you sign in Minsk? Should we not be held accountable for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u41	You're the question. Alexiyyovich, I'm sorry, have you made a mistake? The Henprosecutor is now under review!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u42	I wasn't wrong! So I'm essentially saying that today we're going to be asked to appoint a person to protect their own, and that's why they're yelling, so they're going through it because they understand that they need to hide under the new Attorney General's purse so they don't take them down the throat. That's the first one. The other one. I want to tell you that we understand Mrs. Venedict's purpose perfectly. It's been three months. She's been Director of the D.B.I. for three months. I have a simple question for you. What did the D.B.I. do these three months? What major criminal cases have been investigated? Where Is Corruption Stopped? Where Are the Stopped Abuses? Three months! Where are the results? What success story at the D.B.A. led Vendiktov to the office of Attorney General? Only one is that she obediently followed the instructions of the President and of the President's Office. And we all know that because she continued with the D.B.I. Truba case. The pipe had to be changed after the film, because it broke through this tube, and it flooded the country with such feces that it smelled all over the country. But well, then they planted Vendiktov, who continued all of this without changing anything. Nothing! In three months, the D.B.I. was engaged in one, political persecution: Fedina, come here; Beast, come here. For what? What, are you so afraid of the Feds? Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, she's sitting right here. How are you in this session room? She might throw herself at you like a tiger and do something to you. Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. We are now re-electing not the Attorney General of Ukraine, but the Attorney General of the People's Service, who will cover up all those who are currently using masks on drugs during the epidemic. Said the president, you said it would be in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u43	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! I mentioned the old Odessa anecdote, which ends with the words, "Issa, we work on contrasts." Dear colleagues, I wanted to speak to the Attorney General, and I asked the candidate for the post of Attorney General, with the following question. I asked this question to all the candidates at the time, and it was as follows: Can the reasoning of Maidan and the mass murder of the people in Odessa be investigated? And all the candidates for the Attorney General told me that they did. Dear Mrs. Vendiktova, I really enjoyed your speech on this political non-involvement and what you're planning on really investigating the resonance issues in the country. I hope so. In the presence of the President, I can say that when certain steps were taken in the Sheremet case, the President demonstrated the political will that such resonances could be investigated in the country. I think that these investigations, they're going to show Ukrainian society, they're going to show the whole world that there's really a law in place in Ukraine, they're going to show that in Ukraine, really, as in a normal European country, the highest value is human life. Not political relevance, not other moments, but really the law in Ukraine is one for all. I hope so, Mrs. Vendiktova. This is important not only for me and for the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is important for all of Ukraine. I hope so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u45	Thank you, Mikolo Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, Irina Valentinovna has been mentioned several times. I think the closing word before the vote is three minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u46	Thank you very much, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thank you very much, colleagues, for all the words I've just heard, for everything that's happened. I want to say that freedom of speech in our country and democracy are the principles of the freedom of the Ukrainian people that must be. And I'm going to stand here so that each of us can stand by and say everything that we think is necessary because that's exactly what the law enforcement system should be built on. With regard to those points that the opposition referred to, in terms of, first, the Supreme Court exam and second, with regard to my activities at the State Bureau of Investigation, colleagues, not all exams should be passed on to all institutions. As for the direct tests, I've passed them. So if you want to be objective, please first pick up the documents and see what steps have been taken and what steps have not been taken. But once again, I stand on the point that I'm going to ensure your freedom of expression, whatever you're talking about. With regard to activities at the State Bureau of Investigation. The State Bureau of Investigation has done a great deal in 2.5 months. The organizational structure has begun its new activities, competitions with the Council of Public Controls have now opened up, with the primary functions of the heads of the judicial investigation bodies. And in fact, there's so much going on right now that you have to pay attention directly to as parliamentarians, so please pay attention to that. Once again, I'm going to repeat the political persecution. There is no need to confuse economic crime with political persecution. Economic pressure will stop at business. All that has been revealed is precisely to capture business and redistribution of business processes, which we have seen in the last six years, will be all legal, legal procedural decisions taken, and where there has been theft, theft of our people and our state, there will be just indictments that I think will find their confirmation and are based on the verdicts. It's gonna be Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u47	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 212 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the decision to grant approval by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General is taken by an open name vote by a majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Constitutional Court of the Supreme Council. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree, registration number 3227: granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the post of Attorney General of Venedict Irina Valentinovna. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:05:27]] For 269 Decision taken. Congratulations, Irina Valentinovna, on your appointment. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, show the factions. Dear colleagues, Mr. President, I think we are. That's what the factions showed, yes. Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Mr. President, I understand that you should return to your duties. I think the President will figure out what to do. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. The question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is addressed by the Supreme Council in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the appropriate appointment of Petrasko Igor Rostylavovich as Minister of Economics, Trade and Agriculture. The relevant materials are available for your consideration. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u48	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen of the people! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution is entitled to a coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation, I present an application for the appointment of Petrashko Igor Rostislavovic as Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine. Igor Petrashko has more than 20 years of experience in the field of economics, management, and he finished "Lvivian Politechnics." After that, he studied and received an MVA degree in the United States. I studied in Britain. He worked for the first-four companies. For the last seven years, he has run a large company — 30,000 people. That is, he has a powerful management experience, he has broad international connections, he has vision. And today I think of him as one of the best economists in the country who can really help us move forward, including the eve of the economic crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The candidate for Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Petrasko Igor Rostislavovich, is invited to the floor. It's three minutes. Then we'll move on to the candidature discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u50	Good afternoon! Thank you, Prime Minister, for your introduction. Ukraine is now entering and the world is in a very difficult economic situation. Understandably, it is said that the crisis is always expected, but it is always due to unpredictable factors. That's what the coronavirus was, and we're actually going to see the main results not now, but in about 3-6 months. And this is the first time that the world crisis is caused not by financial factors, but by industry and service. So we're going to expect the European Union and the United States and Ukraine to suffer in terms of first-hand production. So based on what I see as a priority in the economy right now, that's two ways. First. This will support and balance the Ukrainian producer in a situation where markets close, European Union markets will introduce protectionist, other prohibitions. And it's important now to help those small, medium, large businesses that now have production, save their production, save their jobs, save their wages. This is the first direction. The other one. It is to create fundamental conditions for the Ukrainian business to feel good. And if the Ukrainian business in Ukraine feels good, it will also be the flow of foreign investment and funding from abroad. Clearly, the systemic things that need to be done, first of all, I see the continuation of deregulation policies, the continuation of policies to reduce the pressure on businesses of various structures and organs, and the ideal situation for business to communicate minimally with the state, and to do what it was designed to do: to provide jobs and to create production, and to export products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u51	Thank you. Have a seat. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, Bilkova Olga. Yvchenka, please. From the site or from the rostrum? Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u53	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it's a very important question. Minister of Economic Development, Mr. Igor Rostislavovich, you did your name in business, you said that you finished college with a mark, I finished college with a mark, but believe me, you'll be facing the most difficult task today. You said about the pandemic, and I'll tell you what we have here is a major economic crisis that's going to hit Ukraine in a few months, and you have to understand clearly what you're going to do with the decline in manufacturing, you have to understand clearly what you're going to do with the investments that aren't coming. By the way, in agriculture for the past government, investments have been cut by nearly 12 percent. As a human, you have to be clear that the market that's being launched, it's not going to be able for today's little farmer, the average agribusiness to compete in those auctions where speculators go. You have to understand that clearly. You have to be clear that the sale of property directly for no price in most cases will not fill the budget. And you have to say -- after a while we'll see your work -- what are the concrete steps you'll take as minister, concrete steps to save the Ukrainian economy from the past minister, who understands himself as he called himself. So from the agrarians, I'd like to ask you, actually. First. You have to do everything you can to restore the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. Believe me, if you don't do it now, four months from now, it's going to be a complete extermination of this ministry, and we're never going to go back to that question. This is an important question, believe me. What should the Ministry do for the future? The first is State control over land use. It's important. The second is the development of a strategic vision of the agricultural sector. Is that what we're going to do after the holding of Ukraine? Is it a family farm, a small, medium-sized producer, who will work directly and create a farm in the territory? You have to understand clearly how we're going to control the quality and safety of the product. At the same time, place a bet on organic production. This will preserve the budget, and it will preserve the main health of the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian nation. And I'll tell you what: restore the idea of agrarian attachés. We have to actively conquer international markets, including agrarian production. That's why I personally want you to succeed. But I don't believe that in a government where you're going to be in, where there's no understanding of the earth, you're going to be able to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. Nina Yuzanin. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, by the way, I don't know which factions the minister's candidate was dating. He didn't date our faction. We listened very carefully to all the words we had just heard from the high court. Mr. Candidate, you haven't said any real action you're going to do. Your words "balance the Ukrainian manufacturer-- what is it? "To make the Ukrainian business feel good." Look, these are the words that ordinary people say on the street. You're a minister's candidate. I don't understand why you came to the hall if you haven't studied the situation in the economy of Ukraine. I don't want to ask you. To examine you now, because I'm sure you're not ready. But the economic crisis in Ukraine has already begun. It started and goes on for five months. She's already in trouble. And that's why your actions now and your words should be that "honorable fellow MPs, I've studied things, I see the first steps I can take." You're the key figure now. You didn't say a single term, a government term of action that you're about to take on this position. You are now opening up the market in connection with the epidemic of imports into Ukraine of certain product groups. How do you protect your own manufacturer? Do you not know that there are a large number of manufacturers who do not yet have a government order, who can produce such precise masks of protection that they expect the government to do certain things in order to get them to work? What's in this direction -- you've completely failed us -- are you going to do it anytime soon? And most importantly, to make it clear that those measures that are now even adopted for improvement to facilitate the financial situation of the business during the country's forced action, they apply to very few and certain categories of taxpayers. How are you going to support those who will continue to work, who will go to work, and at this time, when we are forced to be on observation, will do much work for Ukraine? So I'm sorry, but you don't fit in. You should be sounding all over the country like we'd all be happy to help you. And you don't have any plans. You don't even see the prospect of getting out of this situation that we've been in for five months. So I think if you've even agreed to this position, well, not to know the basics of what's going on in the economy right now and not to tell us that, you're the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Alexander Marikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! It is quite an honor to present this man, Igora Rostislavovich, with whom we will work soon. I want to point out right away that the "Serial of the People" faction will support this candidate as a decent, experienced person with a good, huge potential, with great experience. But what I want to point out, Igor Rostislavovich, is that we are a bit of an imbalance in political decisions very often leads to one hand not knowing what the other hand is doing. For example, we have an airline country: we have airplanes, we have helicopters. At the same time, however, the minister may allow himself to purchase helicopters in France, not in Ukraine. So domestic production can go down because we have an unbalanced policy on government procurement. So, first of all, in public procurement, you have to write down, say that national producers have priority. And now the bill, the Act that comes into force in April on government procurement, is a low-priced criterion that up to 10 percent can provide another criterion. In this criterion, let's take the Ukrainian manufacturer. The second is the light industry. The light industry has always been a flagman of Ukrainian production. Light industry is the fastest to adapt. People buy presses and make jobs and make productions. If we have decentralisation, if we have a land market to launch, of course, we need to make the light industry a priority for us after agriculture. What do we see? State support, government subsidies for light industry, is virtually nonexistent. Enterprises are lowering their production, and instead we're offering a free trade zone with Turkey, where 50 times the easy industry is larger, where only the remains are less valuable than all of our productions. So there are laws that protect the manufacturer of light industry. In this area of light industry, let's build, after agriculture, an efficient economy through this sector. Thank you very much. And I hope you'll accept my recommendations. I'll give you a video because you couldn't hear it all, I'll send it to WhatsApp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Mr. Secretary of State! Mr. Petrashko! Please sit down and listen. People's deputies are coming to you. Get used to it being a parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, please tell me, have you stopped being members of the national team and been invited? Forgotten. Cradenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u60	Coltunovich, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! I would like to point out that on the Committee on Economic Development we did not actually hear the minister. We didn't see his plan. We haven't seen the strategic direction of economic development. And we didn't see the projection indicators and the main macroeconomic parameters of the country's development in the medium and long term. This certainly does not give us the right to support this candidate. And so "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not vote in favour of this minister's appointment. However, I would like to point out that there have been a number of false remarks here today. First of all, we don't have as much economic crisis as it started in the middle of last year. The slowdown in economic growth began with the inefficient economic policy of the previous Cabinet of Ministers. If it continues, and the economic course and the economic policy that was proposed by the previous authorities, we will have a deterioration in basic macroeconomic indicators. By 2020, we have a real decline in gross domestic product of half a percent in January. The decline in industrial production is 4.7 percent. The budget was not implemented again for tens of billions of dollars. We realize that due to quarantine, economic activity will be reduced and that there will be underexpenditures in the budget, in the budgets of all levels, and, above all, in the budget of Ukraine. We will once again have a budget failure crisis by the end of 2020. And that's why we suggest, right, that the previous speaker really needs to change economic policies, integration policies, stimulate the internal consumer market. But when you talk about free trade zones, I would like to point out that in 2019 we lost more than $20 billion compared to 2011. Do you know where they lost? Lost in foreign trade with SND countries. This is the potential that we can reverse. If we had a free trade zone, we would have had the opportunity to compensate for those markets that we lost after 2013, we would have been able to return our jobs, we would have been able to return the high-tech industries, we would have been able to return the added value that's being created inside the country. And then our economy would come out first, the country's GDP, by $183 billion -- that's the indicator that was in 2013 -- the growth rate was above 10 percent per year, and our economy would have the resources to raise social standards. Without that, we will have neither social policy nor an efficient and successful economy, nor Ukraine as a whole. So I'd like to start by presenting us with a real economic course that we're going to see, and then we're going to be able to evaluate in specific macroeconomic parameters of a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u62	Pippa Natalie Romanovna. Jurchisin Rostislav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u63	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Much is said about where this person worked. And so I just want to tell you about Ukrlandfarm, and more specifically his owner, Mr. Oleg Bahmatyuk, who is now hiding from the investigation. Why? Because in the case of the acquisition of VAB Bank's assets of 1 billion 200 million dollars that were issued to stabilize this bank, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court ruled that it would be arrested. And today we've been asked to appoint a person who has recently worked at Ukrland Farming, the minister of economics, for a moment in charge of agrarian reform. Here the colleagues were very appropriate in saying that let us administer it well. Sorry, it is not possible to administer this reform well in the interests of the Latifundists. A man who worked for a Latin Funder who hides from the law won't do that. Briefly about Oleg Bahmatyuk. The National Bank of Ukraine is currently in litigation with this person for 29.3 billion dollars. For a moment, that's more than we've put on the 20th year's budget right now. And we're just after yesterday's meeting of oligarchs, oh, I'm sorry, big business representatives, we're actually setting the President's quota, not the Servants of the People, but the quota of a specific oligarch, who unfortunately couldn't be present at the meeting because he was hiding in Austria, in the government. Colleagues, we were promised a new policy, both the President and most. We were promised that people who steal money from bank investors would sit behind bars. I wonder how he's going to vote, like a colleague of Mamka, who was actually Mr. Bachmathuk's attorney in this case? And how does he see if there is a conflict of interest? Because if there's a conflict of interest in a candidate for ministers, which is a direct creation of an oligarch, I'm not even going to ask, it's you and me to give this assessment. But it's pretty much a lie to the authorities. If we want cases to be investigated, things, I'll say, 29.3 billion dollars, we can't assign oligarch lobbyists to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u64	The mother insists on rapping.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u65	Dear National Deputies! Thank you for advertising the legal association. Unfortunately, I don’t work there anymore. The problem is that people mess with the staff all the time. If you go to the staff, there'll never be a result. For this, there are two very simple strategies in crime to look at the scene: from the center to the periphery, from the periphery -- the second story -- to the center. If it's a person, it's from the periphery to the center. If it is at all, if someone has stolen it must be a fact, not a personality. The fact is investigated, it is no different to establish individuals who have stolen and drawn to responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u66	Thank you. The next is Keith Andri Bogdanovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u67	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. In fact, the country is in a very difficult situation right now as a result of the global economic crisis, and we're already feeling it. We have a government debt of $83 billion today, we have a decline in industrial production. This is a constant trend, which is the end of last year: October, November, December, about seven percent, starting this year at five percent. We had a huge gap in the government budget last year, and it's clear that we're going to have to make a government budget sequester. So it's very important who heads the government's economic bloc and what we're going to do in this situation. 30 percent of the economy is in the shade -- it's official. So it would be really good to hear what we're going to do in this situation, and in this way, when 30 percent, imagine that the economy doesn't work for the state, it's in the shadow. We have 82 percent of pensioners who receive pensions below the minimum of living. How will we fill the Pension Fund? How will the economy work under such difficult conditions? We'd like to hear it. Because right now the economic bloc is very important, and it needs a clear signal for both investors, and for our business, under such difficult conditions how to work, so that there's stability in the state, so that the economy survives, endures and continues to grow the pace that has been before this crisis that has now come to our country. But I have a specific question for you, Mr. Igor. Mr. Igor, as the previous speaker said, you worked for Oleg Bahmatyuk’s company, and this is known to be one of the largest debtors in the state, which has huge liabilities to investors, to creditors. As we know, these companies were actively working with the Agrarian Fund, with the Ukrainian State Food Corporation, making overpayments from the state budget. So we'd like to hear from you publicly your position in case you get this position. Please tell me publicly, will you be working with the Borrowing Company, including Oleg Bahmatyuk's company? And how are you going to build this work, because the Ministry of Economics, this is the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, this is the agricultural direction that you're going to do with the same agrarian fund that you're going to do with the government's food corporation in Ukraine? And the main thing is: publicly confirm that you're going to work with the borrowers and specifically with Oleg Bahmatyuk's companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u68	Thank you. Well, questions aren't foresight. Oleg Ivanovich, well, not foresight! Six minutes to make a statement from the National MPs. Please sign up. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Rahmanin Sergei. Rachmaninou, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u70	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u71	I can't hear you. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council adopted a decision, on the Conciliation Council, that the higher legislative body would only approve decisions that were truly of extraordinary national importance. Today, we face two huge challenges. We are faced with a very dangerous illness that is already knocking in the window virtually everyone; and an economic crisis that rumbles in the fence long and loud. In this situation, the only key thing the government has to do, regardless of the branch, is all branches of power, both executive and legislative, and judicial, is to adopt only those decisions that are aimed at solving these problems, and to secure the country in this situation, when the country is extremely vulnerable, from any steps that a country can separate. If the authorities come together with thoughts, considering the pros and cons, they'll decide to bring about an emergency, it's only possible if it's really the only way to solve the pandemic crisis, but only in this option, considering all pros and cons. Any thoughtless introduction of an extraordinary state is capable of breaking this country apart. The government has no right to take any step that a country can break. Any signing in Minsk or elsewhere, any decision that could split the country and challenge its sovereignty, and lead to legalization of occupation, is a terrible danger. Today we have to unite, and yesterday’s decision by the Conciliation Council, today’s decisions by Parliament show that we are capable of uniting against adversity. But any decision that could split the country is extremely dangerous. And the Voice faction warns all of us to think very carefully and consider all issues, especially those relating to national security, sovereignty, territorial integrity. Let us unite until it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u74	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! We all understand very well what a great responsibility today will be to the Minister of Economy and to the entire government, and so we are immediately asking you to do the first thing you need to do today is to protect the country from economic theft, from today's uncontrolled price hikes on almost all the goods of first necessity. Today, people need to be given the opportunity to buy medicine, to buy personal protection, to buy food at a minimum, and to take off allowances in many ways because people today need to be able to survive and live in this difficult time. Today, the second major task that we put before you is to protect our national producer, our industry, because today, more than ever, we need to unite our efforts to protect, to become, indeed, national protectors of our Ukrainian goods, our Ukrainian producers, our jobs, to protect people from this world crisis. Unfortunately, the crisis has already started 4-6 months ago in Ukraine, and today we need to make an urgent decision to stop the decline in GDP in order to stabilize the downturn and start raising industrial production to solve the issue of debt on wages and housing and utility services in order to create all the necessary incentive mechanisms for today's employers to support their work, save wages, save their production, save people today -- to protect people from the crisis. Today, our job is to make all the conditions to support the social community to solve the issue of debt on wages, to allow people today to receive early unemployment payments, hospitals, and to get their legal indexed, which should be indexed, pensions from March 1st. You need to run an anti-crisis government plan today. Unfortunately, we don't see the programs, unfortunately, today we don't see real balanced complex actions from a very unprofessional government. So today you have a great responsibility. We will always support you on those issues that will protect people, but that is the attitude of the government without the "Resistance Platform for Life" program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u75	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Dear colleagues, there's only a minute left. Belkova Olga Valentinovna. No, no, one. Turn on the Bolkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you, Mr. Candidate, for your report. I looked at your summary and I found out that you know how to make presentations, you worked for investment. True, the company where you worked doesn't have that much success today, but you, I think, have built your speech today so that everyone can like it to give you a sense of trust. I'm sure you'll get it, your support party will vote for you. But I'm going to disappoint you: from now on, you're going to have to go from being "everybody likes you" to being "all to refuse or choose who to help." You won't be able to help both small and medium and large businesses at the same time. Today's critical situation, and you haven't said a word about big factories, factories -- yes, general phrases. Call the deputies from all factions and start your consultations today so that you do not have to be offered by managers to public companies, but rather to be offered specific actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u77	Thank you. The words for the report are given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich, a minute. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u78	Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Candidate, colleagues, thank you. Very fast. First of all, I wanted to thank all the members of the committee for finding an opportunity in this operational environment to adopt this decision. Mr. Igor, we have a war and war not only with Russia, but today it is a full-fledged war with the virus. And unfortunately for you, or fortunately, it was the fate of you to lead a completely economic block in this war. You can always count on our support, and we expect you to be invited to join the anti-crisis headquarters until today, because our committee has been working on a number of measures that we are willing to propose and implement together. In general, I would like to say that the committee recommended that the Supreme Council appoint Mr. Igor to serve as Ukraine's economic minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote. Pursuant to article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the draft Decree, registration number 3226, on the appointment of Petrashka Igor Rostislavovic as Minister of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:43:56]] For 243 Decision taken. Show by factions. Hello, Minister. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture Igor Rostislavovich Petrasko is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's brave.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u80	May I? I, Petrasko Igor Rostislavovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the steady and democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m1.u81	Hello! Congratulations on your appointment, Minister. I wish you success in office and the realization of everything you spoke about in your speech today. Dear colleagues, the agenda of the extraordinary plenary meeting is exhausted. I thank you all again and declare it closed.
