ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. We're starting our work. I understand that a large number of our colleagues are approaching. We hope that they will be able to get to their place of work properly. Prepare to register, please. Dear colleagues, before we begin our registration, there is a suggestion that we do not waste time. You and I have planned the next order of business to consider the question of "hours of questions to the government: this is a speech by Minister Stepanov, a question from MPs and groups, and in the end time for questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If you don't mind, if Mr. Prime Minister doesn't object, we'll start with questions to the Prime Minister. The only request, since there is no health minister now, is to turn to other positions because he will be able to answer the area of responsibility on his own. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where is he? I think you've been across the border, too, and you've seen it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I'm sure you shouldn't argue with me about who comes to work early. I'm here at 7:30. I can invite you. Thank you. Is there any objection? Then please register. I remind you, the registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Volodymyrovich, as always. [[10:08:40]] There are 126 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister. People's deputies. Those who asked just what "and how?" In order to open meetings, there is no minimum number of national deputies for decision-making – 226. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to draw attention to a number of important points. We have a difficult situation to deal with today. We have an absolute record -- it's almost 3.8 billion dollars. Well, I'll remind you that this figure when you came in was less than 3, and when the government of Pottery came in, it was even less. How, then, will you resolve the issue of paying off your salary? This time. The other one. The representatives, the Marjorie deputies of our faction, the representatives of the Donetsk region, insist that the funds we have allocated for 1.4 billion dollars to pay off the debt to coal workers, they haven't received them in two weeks. When will this cost come to them? And the third. We're interested in scenarios that are specific about how we're going to work in December-January, how we're going to live in a country that's going to be limited in nature, so that we can understand at all, and the people that we live in. Thank you. And I'll have the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u3	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! So it's about the debt on the pay. With regard to state - owned enterprises, the work of government ministries is carried out daily to ensure that the debt is extinguished. Regarding the wages of miners, a bill was passed. On Wednesday, the government made the appropriate decisions on the distribution of funds to be received from the UK and the UK, respectively, and the 1.4 billion dollars to be paid for the government's part of the wage to miners will definitely be paid in the near future. About the December-January situation. Today, the minister of health has stated that the medical system endures during the December months of stress, although they are extremely high and extremely difficult to work with, but we can allow that no quarantine measures will be necessary during the December month. So we're going to talk about January of the month. Today, when I present laws to support small businesses and entrepreneurs, let me go into more detail about these steps and these plans that we're making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u4	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u5	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. First. I quote your statement on the Supreme Council's transcript of November 6th: "By the end of November, the task is to have more than 42,000 beds with adequate oxygen supply." I'm informing you, Mr. Prime Minister, that your mission has not been completed: 31,000 beds, according to my information. Tell the whole country how many beds there were on December 1st, and how much responsibility those who don't have. And the second question. You said in an interview yesterday that the Cabin is working on a complete test project on COVID-19. Yesterday, however, the minister of health for Stephen’s direct health told me that no one was going to do any of this lying and total testing. Excuse me, is there some kind of government schizophrenic management? Who Is Governing the Government? Will it be, or will it not be, a complete test, or are you preparing an appropriate decision? Thank you. I wanted the whole country to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u6	With regard to bed linen. The medical system is absolutely ready to accept the number of patients who are now in bed. If you compare the situation to the moment the quarantine started, and today the number of beds exceeds twice the number of patients in our hospitals today. In addition, the number of beds provided with oxygen or oxygen concentrates makes it possible to provide medical services to all patients in need. Regarding the disease and the diagnosis you make. Please be correct when you express yourself so that we do not become indignant and respect the government. Specific figures and the total testing required, in particular by the Supreme Council in its decision to the government, I would like to add to the report by Health Minister Stepanov Maxim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u7	First. They said, like a lie and everything, it's just your lexicon. So I'm asking you not to use what I said to you. In the government, we've talked about this over and over again, there's a clear test plan, there's a clear test strategy for increasing PLR testing. That's the first one. And two: about the introduction of antigen tests, the so-called express tests for which the funds were allocated. They've already come in, we've already started distributing them in regions, and we're significantly increasing the number of tests.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u8	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't shout, please. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u9	Thank you. "The opposition platform is for life." Mr. Prime Minister, look, we have a very large number of Ukrainian national deputies who have already fallen ill on COVID and who are well aware of the real situation in the medical field of Ukraine. Doctors today and nurses are without money, no wages, no medicines. What you're saying is, you know, you're so out of space. And here are real people who see the real situation on the spot, see that you're lying to people. This is the same situation as with the natural persons entrepreneurs who are now meeting under the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in fact, people today who would expect, as in Europe, as in the whole world of state aid in these difficult times, they're left alone. You also destroy them. Here's a simple question for you. What can you tell entrepreneurs who are under the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u10	I didn't get your question. I'll ask him to specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u11	Unfortunately, there is no way to give more time. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. You can pass it on to Michael Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u13	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for the Minister of Health and the government as a whole. Perhaps the Prime Minister will know something. Tell me, please, that satellite V vaccine is now being delivered to more than 50 countries around the world. Pfazer's vaccine has been used in Britain since Monday and in Germany before Christmas Catholic. When do we get the vaccine and where do we get it? And the second question. My colleague, a national deputy of Ukraine, passed a test at a state clinic on Friday, and on Wednesday there were no results. We see a significant decrease in the number of patients. What does this have to do with anything? Is it "the miracle of Saint Jorgen," as in that famous movie, or is it still a lack of testing or covering for real information? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. First. It's about vaccination. Ukraine will receive a vaccine of about 8 million doses at the global COVAX initiative, by December 7 we have signed the corresponding documents. I think the deadline for getting this vaccine is the end of the 1st quarter. In addition, we are at the finalization stage with companies, global vaccine companies that have already completed the third stage of clinical trials (including Pfizer, which you mentioned today) on the supply of vaccines to our country. We're also counting on them, starting from the third quarter of next year. Now, this is what we're going to do after the test. In fact, we sometimes have problems in some clinics, in some laboratory centers, in other cities, and we have talked about this in our own time, Nestor Ivanovich. So, with great respect, please tell me exactly what clinics this is about, because we're all over the country in many cities, the test period has been solved. Sometimes we have such problems. We talk about it openly, we don't hide anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u16	Thank you. Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u17	If you'll excuse me, I'll give it to Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u18	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u19	Dear Prime Minister! Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future. Now, you're taking offense at the people's deputies for our formulation. Can you please tell us how to react? That's the impression that ministers don't communicate with each other. One minister says quarantine should already be introduced, the other says you don't have to enter. As Prime Minister, you said the quarantine of the day off. Three weeks of experimenting over a country, over a small, medium-sized business, then they came to the point that it was ineffective, canceled. People are waiting for concrete plans. The first is a specific date, if you need to enter a full quarantine. Second, what's going to happen to the Crucifixion with public transportation? People plan New Year's holidays, vacations are conditional. You can calm them down and say, "Do we have a plan?" And the third thing is, what is this period, quarantine, not just to stop the country, and what are you going to do about it? You go to the district level, not the big cities, and you see that in hospitals, people die, there's no oxygen, there's no equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u21	Thank you. The plan is very clear, absolutely in stages, it's been verified every time. We're looking at what all the countries of the world are doing, especially having their innovations, no experiments, everything's extremely carefully calculated. All the possibilities of the scientific system, the analytical centres of the Ukrainian and the government are being used. And all decisions are made on the basis of clear calculations, I assure you. You can join and participate. Communications are under way today with the heads of the community, with the heads of the district government. We have a clear understanding of the needs and warnings of regions regarding such or other limitations. I've already said that in December we don't plan, except for today's restrictions on the orange area where Ukraine is located, to reinforce other quarantine measures. We can so predict that the medical system will endure, and today the minister of health has reported it. If we talk about more stringent measures, it's obvious that if the situation gets worse, we can raise this issue early in January, and I'm going to talk about it today. The specifics of action will be broadcast Wednesday at the government meeting. Whether or not the transport will work. Yes, the transport will work. Both airlines and railways, urban transportation is not planned to be closed even under more stringent quarantine restrictions. So all scientific research shows that transport is not the main source of the spread, the active spread of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u22	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u23	Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, I have two questions. First. All of us and the whole nation remember the last weekend when a terrible message came from the Jovkow District Hospital in Lviv, where two people died in connection with an extraordinary event — the lack of electricity. A question to you as the head of the executive branch. What responsibility or punishment did the leaders of the local executive body bear? Not the head of the RDA, because the Zovkovsky RDA will be gone, and this position will be reduced, and specifically those responsible for this direction. Do not make your head extreme. More loyally, the head of the district hospital, because the district council no longer exists, because it's already the Lviv district. And I would like to avoid waiting for the result of the activities of law enforcement agencies. People are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u24	I will begin by expressing my sympathy to the families of the dead. It's really a tragedy. This is a lesson that should be taken into account by all our hospitals and all our executives and local authorities so that such things do not happen again. Just the day before, I personally held a meeting with the heads of the districts and regions, and I stressed the need to take all measures today to provide stable electricity to hospitals and to supply oxygen to the beds. All the appropriate actions of the government and the commission are carried out and carried out. On the other hand, we live in a democratic state, but in a state where laws are enforced, a criminal case is violated, and by the time it's completed, you know that, and you understand how the former law enforcement officer, the disclosure of any material in the investigation is unacceptable, only the investigator can announce these things, the ongoing and criminal case. I am convinced, and I will keep this under personal control, that those responsible for the death of patients will be punished. I will also ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to complete the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Question time for the Prime Minister is up. Let's go back to standard procedure. I ask you to come to the rostrum of the Minister of Health. Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov, please. And, dear fellows, we started off a little bit like this, I forgot to say hello to my colleague. Today is the birthday of Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich. I want health, I want health, I want happiness, I want success, and I want success.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'm asking your attention, I'm going to talk about Ukrainian medicine. I ask your respect for the medics -- our heroes, who save thousands of Ukrainian lives every day, and today some of them have become a living shield between the coronavirus disease and the Ukrainian people. And today these people, tens of thousands of medics, are at the border, they'd like to go under the walls of the Supreme Council and say, "That's enough!".. It is enough to close your eyes to the state of medicine and to pretend that it works somehow, not to notice that people who struggle with death every day, save their lives, barely make ends meet. With all due respect, I'm sorry, but the position of national MP or minister is far from the most important thing in the country. Today, when the virus comes, the most important profession is medicine, because when the time comes, they will be with each and every one of us. Today, our doctors receive a salary at the unemployment rate. Guys, think about it. It's embarrassing. Doctors no longer have the strength to endure. They would like to go out and talk about it, but they can't, because if they leave the patients and come to the Supreme Council, tens of thousands of lives will be in danger. They can't because they made an oath. And for 29 years, Ukrainian politicians have taken advantage of their loyalty to the oath and their responsibility to the Ukrainian people. You can't keep your mouth shut anymore, so I'll talk to the medical community. It is our duty to provide the medical community with normal conditions for work and life that they do not simply deserve, but that they have been promised. 23,000, 17,000, 12,000 -- I want you to remember these numbers. That's what the medics promised, and they're counting on us. We can't let them down because they won't let us down. So I'm asking you very much to make these salaries possible in the budget. This is our responsibility to half a million health workers. These are not abstract figures for abstract people; they are our responsibility, for example, to Jeanne Waskivska, a doctor at the Žitomir County Hospital. She has been working for 15 years to resuscitate the neurological ward, saving patients from a severe stroke that reaches the hospital from all over the area. Today, a woman and her colleagues are serving five days a week. She's putting heavy patients on her feet. Instead, its monthly salary is 6,000 dollars. And doctors like Jeanne, who live in their profession, we have hundreds of thousands of doctors in the country whose authority has not been observed for 29 years. We gave the medics hope, the hope that the next year the situation would change, and the state would finally appreciate their work, as President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky has repeatedly stated, with full responsibility as Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health has made all the necessary calculations and budgeted for medical funding at a level that will provide for a doctor’s salary of 23,000 dollars, an average health worker of 17,000 dollars, and a younger health worker of 12,000 dollars. 23, 17, 12,000 dollars is the level of pay I'm going to fight for. I'm standing in front of you right now, and I urge you not to put the doctors before you choose to work for no price or leave the country in search of a better fate. Poland has canceled the dissertation of diplomas to Ukrainian doctors, and now they can go and work without hindrance. They're waiting there, and if we don't raise their wages, believe me, they're all going abroad. Increasing the financing of medicine in Ukraine is a necessary step to prevent the industry from falling and to begin the process of resurgence. Today, 3.5 percent of GDP is very low. 5 percent of GDP is the minimum necessary to get medicine out of a coma that is 29 years old. This year, we initiated major changes in the medical sector, and the government took the first steps to raise the wages of doctors. Since September 1, all health workers have received payments: 3.5 thousand bracelets — doctors; 2.5 thousand bracelets — average medical personnel; and 1,000 250 bracelets — junior medical personnel. Medics who treat patients with COVID-19 are paid 300 percent of the salary allowance. Without proper funding next year, we will not be able to continue what we started. Nearly 81,000 of the 500,000 people in our country are involved in the treatment of patients with coronary disease. That is, relatively fair wages are now paid by a little less than 20 percent of the health - care workers, but doctors of other specialties are also fighting for the lives of patients. And we can't pretend that they don't exist in the country. By order of the Ministry of Health, the regions reclassify multi-profile hospitals to treat patients with COVID-19. The Ministry of Health is working to expand mobile hospitals if necessary in Kiev, Odessa, and the Donetsk region. We initiated changes to Cabinet Order No. 65, which increased the equity rate to 651 bracelets for primary health care. In addition, the order of mobile brigades has been improved. As for the number of beds available for medical care to patients with COVID-19, from early November we increased their number from almost 40,000 to over 61,000 beds. Let me remind you that in April in Ukraine, 12,000 beds were provided for the admission of COVID-19 patients. We're not just opening up extra beds -- there's an increasing number of beds with oxygen. By the beginning of December, we have 51 percent of the beds provided with oxygen, either centralized or concentrated. And by the end of the year, it's going to be 80 percent. At the moment, our ability to separate a bed-town from a nodule disease is estimated at about 90,000, and they can be activated if necessary. But I would like to point out that the resources of the medical system are limited. The epidemiological situation, both worldwide and in Ukraine, is getting worse, but it remains controlled. We're increasing the power of our medical system. Since my last speech, we've seen a planned increase in the number of PLR tests -- almost 50,000 per day. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the epidemic, these features of the medical system were 200 tests per day. The Ministry of Health continues to increase the number of tests. By the end of the year, we'll have more than 70,000 PLR tests every day. The Ministry introduced the use of new antigen tests to detect COVID-19. The funds have already been allocated and the first supplies have begun. This will allow you to do another 1 million tests a month. When it comes to vaccines, there's finally good news. Britain has officially approved the COVID-19 vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech. This means that eventually there will be protection against a disease that will eventually allow life to be restored and the economy to start again. For our part, we cooperate with all the world’s initiatives to produce vaccines against the Coronavirus in order to ensure that the Ukrainians receive the vaccine as soon as possible. One such mechanism is the COVAX global initiative, which brings together 172 countries worldwide. According to the calculations and previous arrangements, we're going to get an 8 million-dose vaccine. All purchases will be made through the State Enterprise Medical Procurement of Ukraine. According to the Ministry of Health, the amount to be allocated to the population vaccination budgets of COVID-19 is 15.1 billion dollars. These calculations are transparent and understandable. We have the previous cost of the vaccine, the number of people we have to vaccinate at the expense of the state budget. These are the people who are in a group of risks by trade mark. They're health workers, education workers, the National Police, people who are constantly in contact with others and can be infected with COVID-19. They are also more than 60 years of age and are at risk. Now, the main topic that is being discussed in society is the introduction of a lockdown. Of course, we can lose ourselves in conjecture and build theories, but there are specific data and obvious laws of epidemiology that we rely on when we make important decisions for the whole country. All doctors realize that from the end of January and February we expect the peak of seasonal influenza. This will also lead to serious stress on our medical system. That's why this period needs to be approached with minimally possible numbers after the disease on SOVID-19. At present, as the Ministry of Health, we will not recommend the introduction of a rigid quarantine until the end of December, as we see a steady rise in new cases of coronary disease without sudden leaps. But since the level of disease and the level of hospitalization still remains high enough, we see the need to knock down this wave of distribution of SOVID and bring it to the minimum possible figures. Based on medical and anti-epidemiological indicators, we suggest that we offer a planned hard quarantine with maximum limits, starting with the first numbers of January. The duration of this quarantine is projected for 2-3 weeks. In addition, as health minister, I say that according to our medical and epidemiological indicators, we see the effectiveness of quarantine measures that have been introduced in the country, particularly the quarantine of the day off. The quarantine of the weekend was introduced in order to break the wave of hurricane distribution of the coronary disease. The maximum effect we expected from this is to reduce the number of new cases by 20 percent. Yeah, we probably didn't get the maximum effect, but the effect of stopping the growth dynamics we got completely. These epidemiological indicators also allow us to say that we do not need to introduce a total quarantine until the end of December because our medical system endures stress. And I'm sure she'll be all right with it by the end of December. Now let's say the word to the opponents. According to a survey by the Rating Group, 33 percent of Ukrainians trust the Ministry of Health. Despite the problems faced by Ukrainian medicine, despite the outright lies of political opponents, confidence in our ministry has increased by 8 percent since July of this year. Of course, we are far from ideal, and our medical system has many gaps and shortcomings. But under the pandemic, we were able to increase the confidence of the Ukrainians, and that's the most valuable thing. I emphasize that the most important assessment for me is the opinion of the medical community and Ukrainian society. You can’t just ignore the budget and then criticize the Ministry of Health for its poor work. That's not how it works. The responsibility rests with each of us present in this room. Bills are voted here. When it's time to make a choice, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, don't think about the abstract notion of "medical," and I ask you to think about your loved ones and family when someone, don't give God, ended up in a hospital, and then you're hoping for a doctor who saves the life of your dearest man. And think, please, that this doctor also has the most precious people at home, to feed them, to dress them, to teach them, to care for them. In order for medical personnel to concentrate fully on lifesaving, they should not think about where to take the money or cover the meal after a day - to - day change. Sooner or later, each of us has a moment when he hopes for a doctor. Now the doctors and all the doctors are hoping for us. We have no moral right to let them down. If we leave everything as it is, we're in for a disaster. It's not a joke or a bold accusation. Criticizing is easy, much harder to do. Medical professionals always remember their duty, and they always remember their oath, so let us remember our obligation to remember. I ask you to remember three simple numbers with respect to Ukrainian medicine: 23, 17 and 12 thousand dollars. These are the salaries on which the health of the entire nation depends, and they must be in the budget. My mission as Minister of Health is to protect the interests of every health worker and to make it normal for patients to be treated. That's the whole point and purpose of my work, every action I've taken is to achieve this very goal. I don't hold a position for office, I'm not afraid of political opponents. As the minister of health, I will fight for the wages of every infectionist, cardiologist, nurse, feldsher, laboratory, every medical worker, and I will fight to the end. I believe our medics will be heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u27	Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister from the MP factions and groups. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u28	Good afternoon! Mr. Minister, I have a question about the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, which clearly regulated the order and conduct of the tests and the allocation of funds for them. And how will the concept continue to be fulfilled so that the sick or suspected person does not travel through cities or villages to obtain tests, and so that these tests can be done, or at least in some places where it will be done with fewer queues, or so that these tests can be done at home? And the second question. Please tell me, in this situation, what is your specific proposal for an exit from the financial crisis this year and next year for funding medicine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. First. As for the execution of the Supreme Council's decree. All the measures provided for in it are carried out by the Ministry of Health. It's about testing. We have a clear picture of our position and what we are doing. We think that in a disease like COVID-19, a person's testing should do an exclusively mobile brigade or directly in a hospital if they're delivered with an ambulance. If we're talking about mobile brigades, they were started in April months. We know about the problems that sometimes arise when, for example, a family doctor is not allowed to call or a family doctor does not send a brigade. We have these kind of setbacks, we recognize them. What have we done to make it easier for our citizens who are sick? We've established the only contact center in the whole country that works in our country. In addition to providing medical care and other counselling to our patients, now, starting last week, a person can call a mobile brigade using this contact center. And our patients have already begun to take advantage of this possibility. Everything about another: testing, testing strategies, I told you that now we've run the express tests, the first tests have already come to the regions. As for financial matters, your second question. First. This year, all these issues have been resolved, and even the underfunding, which was 5.6 billion dollars for NHRIs, is already in place. In the following year, I think we just need to focus on the numbers that are calculated by the Ministry of Health, so clearly, we're ready to answer for each number. There is no luxury, there is only the vitality of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u30	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm going to repeat my question a little bit more specifically right now. The "Satellite V" of Russian production buys more than 50 countries in the world, buys as a vaccine, and buys a license for its production. Why does Ukraine not address this issue when the vaccine is at its lowest cost in the world and the safest and easiest to transport? First question. The second question. The number of patients this week is much lower than in the past. Does this mean that we've gone through the peak of the second wave or the first? Does this mean that there will be no lactauun, there will be no need for it? Does this mean that we have a problem with tests and the real number of patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. First. We can say that in the country for our patients, we can only use vaccines that are safe. Vaccines that have undergone all stages of clinical trials, including the third stage of clinical trials, are safe, which is the largest and which provides for the vaccination of tens of thousands of people. All of this data is published accordingly, including the resources of the World Health Organization. We predicted that we would purchase only those vaccines that were prequalified by the World Health Organization. As for the Russian vaccine, there is no evidence of a third stage of clinical trials in the world. As far as I know, once again, from various information sources, there is only a third stage of clinical trials. And I'm going to do it again until the third stage of the clinical trials is over, I think there's nothing to talk about. Because it's the third stage of the clinical trials that we see whether it's safe or dangerous, and what side risks can cause the use of a vaccine, not just from COVID, but from any other vaccine. Now, what's going on with the numbers that we see this week. I repeat, for several days in a row we see figures smaller than they were a week ago on the same day, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. This includes, however much anyone likes it, this is the result of quarantine restrictions that have been imposed in our country, including quarantine on the weekend. The point is that the laws of epidemiology, which are, which are hundreds of years old, cannot be circumvented and cannot be changed by their desires.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u33	Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u34	Mr. Secretary, a question to you. How appropriate was it at this time to reorganize the Republican Clinic by passing it on to the National Medical University? Is this in the fight against COVID? And if you can, leave some time there for our profile minister, Vadim Gutzite, who would like to ask how the preparations for the Olympic Games are going in these difficult conditions and how the Ministry of Youth and Sports is preparing to defend the interests of the sports sphere in a possible hatchdown full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Regarding the Republic Hospital, it was appropriate to call our National University of the Name of the Mantis to set up a university clinic at the base of this hospital. When we see all of these proposals, we think it's a very nice initiative, which is that at our medical university, at the University of Bogolits, the pulpits are probably the most leading doctors in our country, including the people on which we now have great hope in fighting COVID-19. So it's a completely considered decision, that's what's supposed to happen. Moreover, you and I know what university clinics are like abroad. We want to have the same kind of leading hospitals, highly specialized hospitals, so the hospital was transferred.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u36	Rachmanin Sergei, Voice faction, please. Oh, please, it's Gutzite.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u37	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Thank you for asking, Mr. George. The athletes are preparing for today. Sadly, international competitions have not yet begun in 95 percent of sports. We're doing more local competitions in Ukraine, Ukraine's all-U.S. championships, because we have to compete to keep our athletes in tune for the Olympic Games. We test our athletes when we go abroad, we test our athletes who are in training meetings. So for today we've made all the conditions at such a time that our athletes are preparing. Costs are, for the following year, the funds are fully earmarked to prepare for the Olympic Games in the budget, and we hope. Thank you for supporting this budget. What about quarantine and elbowdown for next year. It is very important for us that athletes continue to prepare. But first of all, it's very important to us that athletes are healthy, that our coaches are healthy, because that's what's most important for today. And if the lockdown is in the first week or two the following year, you know it's a holiday, and as always, athletes are also people, they're resting. So I don't think it's going to be such a problem to prepare for the Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u38	Thank you. Rachmanin Sergei, Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u40	Jaroslav Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u41	Minister, you've had such a talk! You know, it looks like this is a pre-election speech for some other position, like the Prime Minister. And maybe we did have a talker, and he just reworded that word. I would like to remind you that if you wanted to be a politician, you would have to go to the district council, Odessa, instead of being a minister. That's why I have the first question for you. If you don't like this budget, because this political network -- what you've been talking about -- I understand that you don't like the budget. So tell me, you've got people's deputies sitting in front of you right now saying, "Don't vote for this budget until they put money on medicine." And the second question. Please tell me on November 30, a statement by the Minister of Health (that you may have been) that the quarantine of the weekend did not work. And at the beginning of December, December 2, if I'm not mistaken, the same minister's statement has not yet been released: the quarantine of the weekend is working. Did it work or not? Because I have a question: who's going to be responsible for killing businesses because of what you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u42	First. What's related to the budget figures and the figures that are there, these numbers, I've been defending them for almost all of the time I've been in office. I'm talking about what we need to do and what numbers are needed for our Ukrainian medicine. And I told you to take these numbers into account when voting and when working on this budget. It seems to me that it is perfectly normal for a health minister to protect the medical community, the medical community, and when he protects them constantly, not only when it is convenient to do so for the sake of certain political preferences. It's about quarantine on the day off. If you're already talking about what I said, then please look directly at what I said, how I spoke and what I meant. For you again, the maximum effect we expected from quarantine on the weekend was 20 percent reduction in disease levels, that's the maximum effect. At the same time, we calculated that we would be able to counter the corresponding dynamics of the spread of coronary disease, and we were able to achieve that effect. I didn't get the maximum, but we've managed to break the dynamics, and we can see it directly by the numbers. And once again, I want to emphasize to you the laws of epidemiology that are in the world, in all your will, you just can't change.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Sergey the High, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Lucenjak Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u45	Please give me your word. Lucenjak Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u46	Good afternoon. Mikola Lušnjak, Trust Group, Ternopilska. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions for you today. You've made a number of medical personnel, doctors, nurses, but today you've forgotten about the lab staff. Labs that work for 18 hours today have no substitute for cod. People are getting laid off, there's just no one to work with. I'm asking you to fix it. And the second question. Today, rural doctors do not have the capacity to serve 2,000 residents. So please enter another bet and reduce the pressure on one family doctor. Because today we see many cases where people in many villages are left without a doctor at all, if not with them, God forbid, something happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u47	First. All the unannounced workers who work in the laboratories of the Ministry of Health, including laboratory doctors, biologists -- yes, that's true -- all those who work at the Ministry of Health in our labs, they get 300 percent of the cod costs, respectively. You're probably talking about those biology labs that work in the hospitals in the labs. It's just different things, you said in your speech about the labs. What applies directly to hospitals. As you know, the hospital today is KNP, and it's getting the right money. We've given every opportunity, including the director of this KNP, in the past, this is the chief physician, he decides who to include in the COVID-19 medical support brigade to raise the corresponding salary and make them receive more money. As far as I know, you have the appropriate initiative in Parliament to include them in some list. In principle, when such matters are taken into account, we are fully supported by the Ministry of Health. But with regard to the Ministry of Health’s laboratory centres, which do the bulk of the tests, 300 percent of their wages are foreseen. Moreover, it is foreseen by the 372 Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which we adopted in May, and we finance this need fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u48	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u49	Please give the floor to your colleague, Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u50	Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u51	Mr. Minister, we've heard Jaroslava's crying in the rostrum about how there's not enough funds to treat patients with COVID and there's not enough funds to pay the medics. Nothing prevents you from implementing the law and predicting 5 percent of GDP in that draft budget that you submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now for the next question. You're saying that 81,000 medics are fighting COVID right now. In eight months, the MOH purchased only 18.5,000 pairs of gloves for these medics. It's their job, just parts of them, for a few hours. In fact, you once again sign orders for additional hospitals, which you add to the fight against COVID, without protecting the medics without providing them with the necessary drugs or remedies. Based on what analysis and what inventory you're adding to the new hospitals and reporting on the so-called bed-and-bed space for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u52	You know, to be honest, Mrs. People's MP, I am, of course, very sorry that for you, the real state of Ukrainian medicine, which you haven't noticed in 29 years, turns out to be "the crying of Yaroslava." This is the reality that we're living in, this is the reality that our hospitals are in. Thanks to COVID, we've seen this reality, all the citizens of our country. Now, with regard to the purchase of personal protective equipment and all the rest of the hospital security positions. I think you probably know that we have decentralization in the country, and according to decentralization by the hospital owner, including local communities. That's the first one. It's different. As you may know, hospitals are financed, including through the National Health Service of Ukraine. The National Health Service of Ukraine provided adequate funds. The cost of treatment, the cost of other needs in hospitals, including the purchase of personal protective equipment through these programs. In addition, individual protection is purchased at the expense of local budgets. And that's perfectly normal in a decentralized budget. That's how it's supposed to be. And that's about adding hospitals that are. On what basis are they added? Based on the analysis, a medical examination of the need to add hospitals. We now have 476 hospitals, which are added from a specific situation in a specific area. Including, as I said, we've processed multi-profile hospitals, which, apart from COVID, also treat heart attacks, strokes and other diseases, especially in people who have COVID-19.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u53	Taras Batenko, please, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u54	Mr. Minister, first of all, we're indignant that you're covering yourself with the names of the ordinary medics, hiding your responsibility in this way. We think that problem number one today in local hospitals, district hospitals, urban hospitals is an oxygen problem. What prevented you from solving this number one problem in eight months? I’m not even talking about the Lvivsky District Hospital, where people died. I'm talking about the Novoyavorov City Hospital, where yesterday Mrs. Mikiczak and I, your deputy minister, who also has COVID, manually solved the oxygen problem, which ended at 12 o'clock in the morning. And there are dozens of these city district hospitals in Ukraine. Why hasn't the oxygen problem been solved in the last 8 months of your ministry? I think it's a disgrace to you, and you have to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u55	What I don't know about oxygen, I don't know, maybe the tenth time I'm talking about, yes, we have oxygen problems in some regions. At the beginning of the epidemic, we had 3.5 thousand beds of oxygen all over the country. Now, this morning, there are 31 thousand 224 beds. Clearly, these problems arise in one hospital or another, including the tragedy you mentioned. Clearly, this will continue to occur. Why does this occur? Because for 29 years, including you, it was uncomfortable to pay attention to Ukrainian medicine and the condition of our hospitals. Yes, we know about these problems and we solve them further, these problems. And I know how we're going to solve these problems. The number of beds with oxygen will be up to 80 percent by the end of the year. As for my resignation. Do you think you've been collecting signatures there since April of the month? So you collect them, you don't collect them. And since April of the month, I've been increasing the number of tests and increasing the number of beds. Every man has his own accomplishments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Minister, you're out of time for questions. I'd like to thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues from the government, thank you. I think we're all going back to our jobs. Have a good day! Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? Leonov?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, Today, exactly a year later, there was a terrible fire in Odessa. A terrible fire that killed 16 people. It is the grief, pain and suffering of all the city and Ukraine. I ask you to honor the moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, listen, please. There's an offer. We still have our colleagues. You've seen, you've come to the hall yourself, you've seen the problems with access to the Supreme Council. There's an offer now that people's MPs will be asked to read it. And this time we'll just be able to work, vote. Is there any objection? Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u59	But we have two questions to ask the President of Ukraine, and we will need a vote. Do we have 226 registered, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u60	Yes. There are 307 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u61	Okay. Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, two questions came to the President of Ukraine. So it's an open-ended roll-call vote to support Alexander Kovalov's request to the President of Ukraine for a situation in the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Please prepare for the vote. We need to get 150 votes here. And then, if we get 150, 226. Please prepare for the vote. Vote. Again: Alexander Kovalov's request to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. This request is supported by a roll-call vote. Please vote. [[11:09:57]] For 218. Decision taken. Colleagues, vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:10:26]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended vote in support of the request to the President of Ukraine for the return of Ukrainian women and their teenage children from the Syrian Arab Republic. Please vote. [[11:10:58]] For 245 Decision taken. Colleagues, vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:11:23]] For 248 Decision taken. Thus, during the plenary week, a total of 112 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these: to the President of Ukraine, two parliamentary requests that we have already voted on; to the organs of the Supreme Council, one parliamentary request; to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 58; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies, 42; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 9. Let's move on to the query reading. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Igor Negulewski to the director of the state-owned enterprise Mikolaiwiski Sea Trade Port, head of the Ukrainian Danube Paropovia Private Shareholders' Board of Directors of the State Enterprise Sea Trade Port Black Sea Company, CEO of the state-owned enterprise Sea Trade Port South. Alexander Kachura to the head of the National Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors for the State Financial Audit of the use by the State Agency of film funds from all levels. Kiril Nesterenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reform of physical culture and sports in the area of licensing for coaching. Cyril Nesterenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the introduction of ozone technologies for disinfection and sterilization. Nelly Yakovljeva and Vasil Mokan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the situation with the administrative and territorial structure of the village of Provincial in Donbasa, related to the subordination of the active military and civilian administration or the creation of a separate military and civilian administration. Andrija Derkača to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on providing information on the protection of Ukrainian citizens' interests. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State's guarantees of enforcement. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others, only 4 deputies) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General on the need for a comprehensive review of Mary Bochevar's appeal to an improper investigation into the criminal conduct of her son's death. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others, only 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the application of the Tatarbunar City Council for the redistribution of budgetary assignments. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others, only 4 deputies) to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to enforce a court decision on child support alimony. People’s Deputies ( Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicko) to the Office of the Attorney General, the State Bureau of Investigation regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of Vilkova Ruslana Stepanenko regarding the improper conduct of a criminal investigation into a traffic accident that caused serious consequences. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of residents of the territorial community of the village of Karolino-Bugaz on the possible illegal construction of the Black Sea Beach Zone. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the benefit of Ukrainian academic theatre workers. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of out-of-school education facilities in Lviv. Kiril Nesterenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of making use of the funds paid to the military assembly. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the inclusion in the State Health Guarantee Program of the Population Funding to carry out medical control of persons engaged in physical culture and sports. Olga Saladuha to the Kyiv City State Administration to address the issue of the transfer of the trash in order to eliminate violations of the sanitary standards of its operation. Sergey Demchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for illegal granite mining in the village of Voiloka Dniprovost district of Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Demchenka to the Attorney General for the delay in resolving the illegal construction of a gas station on the Polygonny Street, 11, the village of Research, Dniprovsky district of Dnipropetrov. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the Odessa district’s citizens’ appeals about how to use land. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the citizens of Bilgorod-Dnistrovska on the solution of relevant socio-economic issues. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv district government for the implementation of the capital repair of the road to the general use of the local value of S-141404 Kolbajevici-Konushki-Korolovsky in 2021. Oleg Volosin to the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of taxes by the private enterprise NickVesti Prodekshn. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the legality of the construction of the cultural heritage of national importance, the town of the literary city of Duben. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the provision by the State Executive Service of Ukraine of the judgement of the Ravenske City Court of the Plains Region of 20 October 2016 after the liberation of the self-employed area on the street of Danila Galicko, 25 in the city of Reveny. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the retirement of persons evacuated from the alien zone. Olega Volosin to the Kiev District Council on the verification of the provision of budget services to the private enterprise NickVesti Prodakshn. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the continuation of the State Programme for Youth Housing and the improvement of the mechanism for its implementation. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper financing of complex flood programmes in the Zakarpat region. Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of March 20, 2020 No.225 for the possibility of a rapid increase in the bed fund. Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for inclusion in the list of facilities that provide medical care to patients with COVID-19, the relevant structural units of the Vinnick National Medical University of M.I. A pie. Anton Polakov to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the non-admission of actions by the National Bank of Ukraine that present risks to the banking system. Mr. Alexander Kachura, am I interrupting? Alexander Kachura, am I interrupting? Please. Mr. Coucher and Mr. Larissa Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Romanian Centre for Professional Development of Pedagogical Workers and for clarification of the legal status of the centres for professional development of pedagogical workers. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent settlement of the procedure for issuing a certificate of the established pattern and granting aid to UN and UPA veterans in view of their status as participants in the hostilities. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for urgent consideration and adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Bills Nos. 2458, 3508, 3912 for the purpose of reforming and healing the area of community services for the population. Vladimir Aresonkov, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the right of graduates 2020-2021 for the academic year to mark additional points when entering the NCD. Vladimir Aresonkova to the deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre on changing the type of land use within a single land category. Bogdan Thorochti, acting as Head of the Road Service in the Kirovgrad region, is concerned with the state of implementation of the current average repair of the N-23 public road (Cropivny-Crowd Rig-Zarzyży). July of the Lighthouse to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the elimination of the imbalance in the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the pension insurance of citizens who participated in the elimination of the Chernobyl AES accident. July of the Lighthouse to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utility regulations for the settlement of the relationship between Loz city OSBB and AT "Harkovoblanergo" electricity supplier. Vladimir Kabachenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of residents of the village of Borisovka of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa to provide funding for work related to the repair of the Tatarbunari-Borisivka-Gluboke road. Plačkowa's aunts to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for effective State control over the enforcement of environmental legislation, especially in the area of water objects within the territory and seaports. Tatyana Placzkowa to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, is concerned about the need to investigate the facts of marine pollution and to hide information about the environmental situation associated with water pollution. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, Head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration, Head of the Zaporozhye District Council for the Prevention of Closure of the Medical Institution of KNP "Sanatorium of the Medical Rehabilitation "Gloria" of the Zaporezki District Council (M. Primorsk). Paul Melnik, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, chief of the Automobile Service in Zaporozhye Region, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for active response to the unsatisfactory organization of motor vehicle traffic, which travels through the populated areas of the Weselów and Mikhail region of Zaporozhye, through the repair of the international road M-18. Paul Melnik to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the Revitalization of Important Projects for the Zaporozhye area of renewable energy, energy efficiency and water supply in the Danish Business Finance of Ukraine programme carried out by the Government of Denmark in cooperation with the Government of Ukraine. Paul Melnik to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Areas for active response to the low coverage problem with the T2 signal in the cities of Primorsk and Tokmak of the Zaporez Region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Improvement of Public Procurement Legislation for the Provision of Nutrition Services in Education Institutions. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government to ensure the proper management of the cultural sphere as part of the decentralization reform in the Volin region. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct. Arsenia Pushkarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the preservation of life and the health of citizens while staying at public transport stations. Groups of National Deputies (Grischenko, Kitsak and others) A total of 14 deputies) to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to address the issue of the provision of the Malian City Hospital by oxygen, by installing an autonomous oxygen generator from the production of medical oxygen. Victor Mjalik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the Regional District State Administration, the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Shareholders, the director of the regional branch of the Lviv Railway Association of the Ukrzalznica Association for the restoration of the train of the suburban link No. 6391 Antonovka-Anniversaries and No. 6392 Annually, Antonovka Prat "Lvivska Railway". Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the issue of the official translation of the European Charter of Regional Languages. Natalia Pippa to serve as director of the Lviv District Council construction department for the line-up, protection, and installation of the Archangel Mikhail Park on Stryska Street. Groups of National Deputies (Shakhova, Sukhova and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General regarding the improper investigation of crimes related to the activities of the Odessa District Electoral Commission. Vladimir Ivanovov to the temporary duty of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions of higher education in the Herson region. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the need to review the scope of financial security measures for repairing the roadways of general use of local value in the Herson region. Sergey Steps to the Ukrainian Minister of Health to improve the level of medical care for patients with COVID in Zaporozhye. Olesia Long to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine for the settlement of the provision of medical services "Stational assistance to patients with acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2." Victor Mjalik to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on the facts of illegal sand mining in the territory of the SFORK "Selyan Forest". Groups of National Deputies (Girls, Gerasimens, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ukrainian Security Service for the Investigation of Fire Cases in March-May 2020 in the territory of the Žitomir region. Denisa Maslov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to comply with articles 126, 130 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the financing of court expenditure for 2021. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrgazbank Stock Exchange for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian People's Deputy under article 19, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, in connection with a surprise to inform the national deputy asked in the parliamentary referrals about the size of official salaries, monthly bonuses and allowances received by the management of the Krugazbank in 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Science, Polyakov and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Office of the President of Ukraine on illegal (rider) occupation by officials of the Happy Rural Council of the Kyiv Region of Kyiv region of the West Management Systems. Groups of National Deputies (Staff, Gauls, and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Office of the President of Ukraine concerning the disposal by officials of the Happy Rural Council of the Kyiv District of the Kyiv Region of the budget. Sergei Vlasenka to the Attorney-General for the ex-head of the Ukrainian National Bank for Crimes involving financial equipment in Yanukovic's environment for more than US$1 billion. Julius Ovovnikov to the Attorney General on the violation of environmental legislation in the "Golossievsky" NPP. Groups of National Deputies (Nathaluha, Kisilevski, and others) A total of 26 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the provision of information and materials on the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the Turkish Republic. Gennady Watzak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, director of the Odeska railway regional branch of the Ukrzalznica Company of the Ukrzalznica Association, head of the board of the Ukrainian Railway Association on safety measures on rail transport for residents of the village of Križopil. People’s Deputies ( Novinsky, Mushroom, and others. A total of 6 deputies) to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on information provided by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of social and economic support to individual religious organizations. Roman Gritchcock, to the temporary duty of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to the transparency and publicity of spending in the field of education. Roman Gritchcock to the head of the city of Kiev's Thessaloniki District Authority for the implementation of the civic budget projects in the 20th year. And two last questions, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for clarification of the operation since January 21st for the transitional period of the Social Protection Directorates of the People of the District State Administrations. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the worsening of economic crises. These are all MP's questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u62	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will perform? Anna Constantine's speedboat. And then we go to work. At the same time, there is a proposal, representatives of various MP factions and groups, cancel the break from 12 to 12:30, and finish our work at 1:30. Is there any objection? Thank you. Anna Constantine, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, every day you and I are horrified to see the statistics on COVID-19. The Supreme Council probably doesn't have a deputy and his family who didn't get a COVID-19. We know the statistical illness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we wonder why the situation is not improving, and the quarantine measures that have been introduced and introduced are not working. I'll explain why. Dear colleagues, the mask we were given to each of us today at the entrance to the Supreme Council. You can take it off, dear fellows, because it's a full-blown butt. This mask does not match the quality standards. It's an agrovolon. And all it can do is protect your plants, no more. You and I have sent you fines for not wearing a mask. There's nothing we can do about it. We can't even protect the Supreme Council itself, because our defenses don't meet the standards of quality and certification. Because Ukraine is the only country that doesn't check the means of protection and test their compliance with quality certificates and standards. Dear colleagues, over 50 percent of the tests show no real result! I urge everyone to make this right. I urge you not to be a garbage man. Because of the products that the Western world has refused, Europe, which Africa, which Asia has refused, has gone all the way to Ukraine, and we use it with you. It is our fault that we have such a high disease that so many of us die. Dear colleagues, today you will find a bill in the SEDO that fully addresses the situation. I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers be required to carry out a full examination of the safeguards for certificates of conformity and quality. Please join us all in this bill, the profile committee will consider the bill as soon as possible, and the speaker of the Supreme Council will put it to the vote. Thank you. Take care of yourself and your loved ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. The procedure is Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I have an offer. Let us now, without discussion, adopt the laws that Ukraine is awaiting, to help everyone through COVID, to shorten time and speed up this procedure as quickly as possible. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we have Bills 4429, 4430, 4431. It is suggested that they be considered without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussed, discussed. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Let's go another way. Let's take a brief statement after all three: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, just the Prime Minister reporting. If you don't mind. Oh, no, there's a committee decision to read. Dear colleagues, it is a matter of making decisions. David Georgievich, I answer you! We need to hear the committee's decision. We may not listen to the authors. We can then listen to the committee decisions, then two in favour, two in favour, and then we vote on three bills. We can take that procedure. Is there no objection? Again. Now there are three committees, and then there's two for two for two against. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues insist on the performances. Okay, well, then, according to procedure. Bill 4429. Can we not listen to the reporter, but just the committee? Is there no objection? And the reporter insists. Then you are invited to the floor. It is suggested that this issue (registration number 4429) be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:36:21]] For 247 Decision taken. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honourable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, Good Day! On November 26, President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine introduced a package of bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Ukrainians and businesses in the event of an increased quarantine. These are the necessary initiatives that people will need if the anti - epidemic measures in Ukraine are stepped up. At present, the situation is difficult, but it is controlled. But we don't rule out the scenario of the worsening of the epidemiological situation, and we're going to have to react quickly and predictably. The quarantine of the weekend has played a role, achieved its goal, we see it in figures: the rate of epidemic growth has declined in the last week. Today, Health Minister Maxime Stepanov assured us that in December, the medical system will withstand the strain caused by the epidemic. Such forecasts by the Ministry of Health allow us to predict more accurately possible winter holidays for safety reasons: early January, probably early next January. So now we can assume that there will be no tightening of quarantine restrictions until the New Year. We're going to analyze the number of patients, after the beds are filled, under hospital security, but for now we're going to go through December with the current quarantine restrictions. As far as what they might be, I want to say that none of the plans currently under consideration foresees the closure of urban, public transport, nor do we consider the possibility of closure of intercity and international communication. Borders will remain open, visits to other cities are possible. A full list of possible restrictions will be published next Wednesday, December 9. We have a clear vision of how to act and what to do. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u69	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On December 4, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights reviewed the draft Ukrainian law, which has just been reported by the Prime Minister, registration number 4429. I am grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development in particular, for preparing this bill. This bill was submitted by the President of Ukraine, Zelenski Volodymyr Alexanderovich, and was defined as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Interested central executives support the bill. GNEU of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commented on individual provisions of the bill. And we discussed at our meeting all the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian people's deputies and the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill of support, taking into account such proposals. These proposals are made and are available on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They apply accordingly to what we have changed 2020 to 2020-2021, because there is not much time left until the end of the year after the introduction of this bill. And we have to be able to pay everyone who needs help, not just this year, but the next year. In addition, these changes apply to the payment mechanism because it is new to Ukraine. The payment will be made through the "Act". It's going to be digitized, and so the technical stuff is an ambitious project, because we thought we'd pay in a couple of weeks, and so the technical changes were made to ensure that this mechanism was very quickly paid out to our citizens. Please put to the vote the proposals and adopt the bill as a basis, as recommended by the committee, and generally as a law with their accounting. Thank you for your support. I hope from the committee that we will now adopt this bill, so much needed by our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u70	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. And which of the factions insists on performances other than the EC? All of them? Then write it down: two, two, against the factions. The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u72	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u73	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, the Trust Group will support this bill, the social assistance that is needed today by the very people who live in our country. But I would also like to address Kabmin. On more than one occasion, we spoke of the unprotected types of workers like miners. No one has yet given an answer when people pay their wages. Help the entrepreneurs, lady, unprotected, who won't have a job during the pandemic, lady. When will the wages of the workers who work today be paid in six months? Why does Ukrainian coal burn in warehouses and take coal from Africa? Who will be responsible for this crime that is now in Ukraine? Anyone in this state can say, Parliament is sitting, people are saying, they're writing to me on Facebook, "Sergey, why is there no answer?".. Secondly, from this rostrum, a colleague of ours just said that there are tests today that don't match reality. That's true, yes. At least eight people called me and told me they had a temperature of 37, as I used to have, but tests show a negative result. Who, too, will be responsible for the fact that people who are sick today can come out and infect others? Why are tests abroad now being purchased and Ukrainian tests not being used? Don't they use antibodies tests for the Ukrainian manufacturer, our scientists? Who will be responsible for spending billions of dollars in our nation’s budget? "There's no budget money, there's no money for taxpayers," said Margaret Thatcher. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, we've been waiting for you for nine months now, an anti-crisis plan, a country's exit plan from the difficult economic situation in which all the Ukrainians are in, first of all, as we see, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that you've been shutting down, then quarantined, then introduced a lockdown on the weekend, and now you're in full uncertainty about how small and medium-sized businesses will work, especially in the area of New Year's Eve celebrations. So the country began to live under the constant pressure of your experiments, non-professionalism and incomprehensibility as to how to live on. And that's why we're asking you, or we need to give everyone a plan of action from the government, a program of government action, a plan to get the country out of the crisis, a plan to protect people today from the coronavirus; or, if your government is unable, we all see it, you don't have the opportunity to present the country today with an adequate plan to get the country out of the crisis, so please write a statement and don't experiment with the country anymore. Enough for all of us to put up with the mistakes you make every time, and then there are no results. That's why today's opposition platform team supports this presidential bill because it's a small step towards a small enterprise today. It doesn't suit us as a whole, but we do realize that's the best you could offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u76	Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, of course, we support this bill as a whole, but we warn that there are many technical mistakes, and we hope that at least the government will be able to deliver on the promises made in this budget and in this bill. But let's be honest, we have a huge planning problem. At first, business waited for how many of us were sick, then, until the government defined the quarantine of the weekend, it was necessary, not needed, worked or not, and now it's waiting for the official new date and lockdown to be announced, whether it will be necessary or not, and what the limits will be. And in the meantime, I don't know, there were some sports masters here to fight the coronavirus, not the graph. He says that Ukraine is the only country in Europe that still has a disease. This is a sentence for those eight months that has been imposed, including on business and its limitations, on what the government has done. As far as help is concerned. 8,000 dollars -- of course, that's not enough. Let's face it, FOP of the second group paid more than 13,000 taxes for eight months, and we pay it back to 8. And, God forbid, there's enough money for that. By the way, it's about money. So once again, if we didn't let the government roll 30 billion into asphalt, we could give every entrepreneur over 8,000, but over 30. It's the price of populism, including the pre-election pyarius. But once again we're saying that if we have the only possibility, we probably have to give the government this opportunity to implement. Because if we don't give business support now, Christmas and sown will, indeed, be the only source of business income for New Year's celebrations, and Lokdown will, indeed, take place without quarantine and forever for the Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u78	Thank you. Nina Yuzanin, European Solidarity. Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u79	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I want to tell you this. You know, of course, we're going to vote for this law because it's better late than never, better something than nothing. But where have you been all this time? Since April our political power, others have told you: Let us help people, let us do as they do in all lands. Yeah, we can't give, like the United States, $1 thousand 200 to every person who can't get to work, we can't give hundreds of euros, like France and Italy. Well, let's give something. You didn't give anything. Finally, by the end of the year, in the last minute, finally, let's give something, let's try to give something. But there is no confidence in you anymore. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, you're not interested in listening to us. You're at a meeting of the Supreme Council, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, we're addressing you! You see, dear friends, Prime Minister, it's not really interesting. He's in session, so why answer? I tell you then, Ukrainian citizens. Here, from this rostrum, a month ago, the Prime Minister said that by the end of November there would be 42,000 beds equipped with oxygen. Where are they? They're gone. There are 31,000. I'm asking a question -- it's okay. We were told the quarantine of the day off. Stepanov goes: it didn't work because people didn't follow the limits. That's what he said on November 30th. Today, he says, the quarantine of the weekend worked. So I have a simple question: Why didn't you continue? If the quarantine of the weekend worked and you cancel it, can you at least figure it out? People do not believe you because people today have to do everything themselves. Even people have to go to the hospital with their own oxygen balloon. People used to collect spikes, Greeks, and, I don't know, salt, now you have to buy people, your own oxygen, so that they don't give God, they get sick. And then there's the diesel generator so they won't be unlocked from the H.V.I.S. machine in the hospital. It's a disgrace what you've done. And it's just a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u80	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u81	Honorable Predestination! Dear Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues! You know, we've finally moved on to specific bills that Fatherland has been introducing over the last eight months, when this threat has been felt since the first day. But the question isn't how to get into the lockdown, the question is how to get out of the lockdown, and who gets out of the lockdown, and what's the status. That is why, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Mr. Stepanov, note the key points. If, in fact, you're ready for a hard lockdown, go and introduce a lockdown for the most vulnerable categories of our citizens. Enter supplements for working pensioners so that they can be at home, not at work. Because 45 percent of those with fatalities are pensioners. Enter the lockdown for those with the most serious diseases, provide them, and then enter the lockdown for everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u82	Now there are two more speeches: Batenko, Catchura. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we had to wait eight months to help small and medium-sized businesses today to vote on these three bills. As for the FOPs that we're talking about today, it didn't prevent the creamy factions in Parliament from coming out, wanting to go out and talk to the representatives of small and micro-enterprises who are still taking care of us under the walls of Parliament and demanding the truth and their ability to work and survive. As far as this bill is concerned. We will certainly be supportive. But we're asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine why do we need to restore the full scope of the bill to the authorities of government planning and government oversight of businesses? In fact, it is a complete state control over the activities of the operators. So we wanted to do good for entrepreneurs, but we're restoring full control of them, so we wanted -- as good as ever -- as always. We certainly vote yes, but I think it's unacceptable to keep such further control functions in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u84	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u85	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, there's a lot to talk about. Let's vote, we'll probably support people, we'll support entrepreneurs who are taxpayers who support all of us, all of you: The Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. So there's nothing to talk about, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. We understand that we need to support the position of the committee because, unfortunately, we don't have much time. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Social Support of Insured Persons and Hostages for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures taken to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-Co V-2 (resistance number 4429). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:54:27]] For 298 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law (registration number 4429). Please support and vote. [[11:54:55]] For 297 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Wait. Helen Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u87	Let us now vote in favour of the immediate signature of this speaker to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u88	No objection, dear colleagues? None. Helen Constantine, please put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u89	I am voting for the immediate signing of this adopted Bill No. 4429: draft Act on Social Support of Insured Persons and Hostages for the period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures taken to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-Co V-2. Let's vote. Please put to the vote and vote, Your Honor. [[11:56:08]] For 301
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u90	Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, proposed for consideration, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine on social support for taxpayers for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures introduced to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-Co V-2 (registration number 4430). With regard to the Bill of Alternative 4430-1 of the People's Deputies of Getmantsev, he was called off, so there will be no debate today at the meeting of the Supreme Council. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:57:04]] For 273 Decision taken. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, today we ask for the support of President Vladimir Zelensky's initiatives, which are also aimed at supporting people, both small and microbusiness. So this is a package of three bills. Thank you for supporting this active bill No. 4429. There's also two more bills ahead. So it should be noted that it has not been possible in the first submission that these laws propose to provide one - time material assistance to insured persons of an amount of 8,000 dollars. Assistance may be given to employed workers who have lost part of their earnings due to increased quarantine restrictions, to natural persons entrepreneurs who have lost part of their income because of the ban on full functioning. Of course, there are certain requirements for receiving such assistance: an employee must be officially appointed to an enterprise whose activity is limited to a period of reinforced quarantine restrictions, and a natural person undertaking to obtain such assistance in the list of activities should be the first to be restricted during quarantine. Three simple steps will be needed to get help. The first is to go to the only national web portal of electronic services, more known as "Dia," or to set up a mobile application called "Dia." Second, on this portal or using "Dia" to get an electronic identification using BankID. And third, fill out the bank account number and expect the payment we're talking about. The bill, which is now proposed for voting, has a number of tax initiatives. This is the introduction of tax holidays for the 200,000 FOPs of the first group, freeing them from the collection and payment of the single tax and the only payment from December 2020 to May 2021. Also, write tax debt to tax payers if the total amount of debt owed to all taxes and congregations does not exceed 3,000 dollars and is not repaid by November 1. It is proposed to postpone until one year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Please invite the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this morning's committee has considered this bill, and we have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that this bill be adopted on a basis and generally as a law with technical and legal treatment, taking into account the following proposals. In paragraph 2 of paragraph 1, the words “expenses incurred in payment of a single contribution to a general government social insurance for employed persons” shall be deleted. In the second and third subparagraphs of paragraph 1, paragraph 5, the words "which may lose income in the event of a total ban on their activities by increasing restrictive measures" and the words "in order to save the jobs of hired workers" shall be deleted. In paragraph 3 of sub-paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of paragraph 3, the words “expenses incurred in payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance for employed workers” shall be deleted. In the third paragraph of paragraph 3, paragraph 5, and in paragraph 22, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of section II, paragraph 2, the words "which may lose income in the event of a total ban on their activities by increasing restrictive measures" shall be deleted. In paragraph twenty-second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of section II, the words “for the purpose of preserving the employment of employed workers and/or for the one-time compensation of operators for expenses incurred in payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance” shall be deleted. What is this law, now in human language? First: automatic write-off of 3 000 60 bracelets for all taxpayers. The second is the annual payment of a tax debt of 6,000,800 dollars for taxpayers of natural persons. Penetrating and fines for those who pay their debts in six months. These are both legal and physical persons. The exemption from the EU and the only tax for 6 months for entrepreneurs of the first group and the extension of the time limits to write down the only social contribution for so-called "spooning" FOPs for 3 months and the permission for "spooning" FOPs that have been eliminated before this year, that is, until we adopt the relevant law, for such a write-off. Please support the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u94	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister! Unfortunately, we didn't expect the government to have a comprehensive program to get the country out of economic and social crisis. And that's why today's Presidential Bill is better than nothing. Because this will give little entrepreneurs a chance today to see their prospects for at least six months. That's the good side of this bill. But it's not very good. This means that many of the benefits offered will be compensated at the expense of local budgets. We all realize that the local elections are over, so we can start decommissioning local budgets. But you're all very well aware that today, as a government budget deficit, there are so many local budget deficits. And if the State is proposing to compensate for its legislative initiatives at the expense of the local budget, it is necessary to provide compensators for the local budgets. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in this bill. That's why I'm going to the government. Dear Government, if you cannot offer any anti-crisis plans, at least offer today a mechanism to compensate the local budgets of the benefits we are giving today. We also turn to the government again. And the 8,000 dollars that are offered to entrepreneurs and the tax that you're offering to cancel, and the time-table for paying the tax is good. But at least one of the ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, take 8,000 dollars and go to the city of Selidova, either to the city of Neteshin, or to another city, and live there for 8,000 dollars. And you'll realize it's nothing, it's not real help. That's why we're asking you for an emergency anti-crisis plan or a release application.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u96	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u97	Galina Vasilchenko, Golos faction, 118 constituency, Lvivščina. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Small business first suffered and faced all the risks during an economic crisis, during a coronary crisis, because it does not have such a cushion of strength and pillows that big business has. And clearly, critical is the help that just now needs to be given to representatives of microbusiness. Of course, the Voice faction will support these bills, because there are many good initiatives. For example, it is a good initiative for the smallest entrepreneurs, such as the FOPs of the first group, to free them from payment of the single tax and the only social contribution for six months. At the same time, the only tax is a local tax. And we are obliged to provide compensators from the state budget so that the local budgets will in no way be affected. One way to get out of this situation is to leave the excise on the market. And I'm now addressing Mr. Prime Minister, the members of the budget committee, to take this position into account next week and to think about the local budgets, and to leave the excise on the sale of fuel for 2021 in the local budgets. And I would also like to remind you, people's deputies, that when we were in the summer, we were looking at bills that allowed the government to direct funds from the hedge fund to one or the other. At that time, I registered an alternative bill to help a small, medium-sized business. Sadly, this initiative was not supported at the time. But as they say, it's better late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u98	All right, thank you. Nina Yuzanin, European Solidarity. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the previous law that has been passed, which, in one small piece of three words, has abolished the rule of banning all types of checks on economic operators. And it's a commercial thing that this authority is always putting into those populist laws that are supposed to support the entire hall. And this is done in a purposeful way to just hit us all and say, "But you didn't vote, you didn't support it." So you've canceled all the checks now. So I think in the following laws we need to go back to this subject and consider the matter. I now address the Prime Minister. You said you'd pay 8,000 dollars, more loyally, the President, or, I don't know, even who. But it's not now, it's not today, it's during the next quarantine restrictive measures, it's what it's going to be. And I've already realized that you're even doubting whether you're going to announce the hatchhouse or not. So there's another lie that just came out of the room. It's about a draft tax law. Tell me, please, you're saying that this is a very good thing -- a tax write-off of $3,000.60. And you know whose debt we're going to be cheating on, you're going to be cheating? 92 percent of this debt is the debt of natural persons on property taxes: real estate taxes and land taxes. That's what billions of dollars can't get local budgets. Instead of making significant changes to the system of administration, thinking about how to do this, helping to work out with local budgets, most people simply do not know that debt exists. So you don't make any changes and you don't give any help to real business. Because when you talk about the postponement of 6,800 tax payments, you are not talking about legal persons, but you should give them a tax schedule. You're only talking about postponement to the physical person.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Anna Speedhod, Faction Group for the Future. Anna Speedboat, please. Sergey Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, rarely from this rostrum, I have the opportunity to thank our President for his wisdom, balance and farsightedness. It is only a farsighted person and a politician who can submit a bill to give the entrepreneur 8,000 dollars as a tax and cancel the moratorium on the checks of entrepreneurs. Only a high - quality politician can afford to do business for the same 8,000 dollars and tax exemptions at the expense of local budgets. And only a wise politician can sign a bill that was voted in this room on November 17th, December 4th (I'm talking about Bill 3651) that regulates the issues of district councils, district administrations. The local elections took place on October 25th, and only December 4th is the President signing the bill that regulates these issues. People in the regions howl without this document. We just spoke on the issue of the first law, voted to get the speaker to sign the previous bill immediately. I understand that this is not in Parliament's power to vote for the President to immediately sign this bill, which we are about to adopt. But in this room there are godparents, classmates, classmates of the President's wife, and they have the opportunity to ask him to sign taxes today, and a one-time payout. And the fact that, society, our parliamentary group will vote in favour, you can be sure. The only thing I don't understand is what it took eight months to fight the coronavirus, so that before Christmas and New Year's, we could create a queue in all of our institutions to get entrepreneurs to go after this money right now and stick there like they're getting their charity from the state and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u103	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u104	Dear Chairman! Honorable Predestination! People's deputies! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. With regard to all three of these bills, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister of Economy, Mr. Petrashka, the First Deputy to Ms. Yulia Sviridenko, for working together with the Committees of the Supreme Council. But will the problem solve 8,000 dollars of all those needs of our people? Of course not. Will it solve the problems that small, medium - size business is facing, including the only social contribution? Of course not. But this is an attempt to help people, and we support them. But as the officials of the Cabinet of Ministers have told me, do not forget or translate the problems of the state into local authorities. The next step should be to compensate local authorities for their unpaid expenses. Fatherland supports these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u105	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u106	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head! Dear Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Clearly, as a result of the introduction of these quarantine restrictions, the incomes and businesses of large and small FOPs have decreased, and unemployment has increased, so we definitely need to meet them today, who are standing at this great feast of Mary and are going to freeze, small entrepreneurs, under the walls of our parliament. The Trust MP Group supports this initiative to help entrepreneurs at least a little bit. However, I am now addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, because it is proposed not to pay half a year's only contribution, and these are local budgets, please leave the excise fuel in the local budgets so that they can survive the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extreme statement on this issue. Black Dmitry Sergiyovich speaks out of motive. Then we vote. Please. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u108	Dmitri Black, 34 constituency, Dniproperty. Mr. Prime Minister, as you have just presented the bills, you have talked about possible restrictions in relation to the Lokdown, which is not yet planned, according to the Minister of Health, or the support of small businesses. Of course, our faction, and Parliament, I'm sure it will support the bill. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the industrial situation, namely, the State Enterprise East Side, which is the only enterprise in the country that is producing uranium oxide in the country. Tomorrow it could be in the lockdown. It's 5,000 workers, it's 5,000 families who want to work and get paid. Energy independence of the whole country may be at risk. So, Mr. Prime Minister, don't let the country's uranium-derived industries, support industry, and support the East Coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on social support for taxpayers for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures introduced to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID 19, caused by SARS-Co V-2 (registration number 4430). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:15:48]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law registration number 4430. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:16:18]] For 302 Decision taken. Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, let's apply the same procedure as the previous law, allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to immediately sign the bill 4430. I'll put this motion to a vote, please. [[12:16:49]] For 305
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u111	Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 4431). It is suggested that we consider this issue by means of an accelerated procedure. Please support and vote. Are you ready for discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop voting. Then it's a reduced procedure. Fellows, wait, you'll find in one faction you have different positions, distinguished colleagues. I would like to ask you to support and vote on this procedure. [[12:17:46]] For 274 Decision taken. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend. If possible, a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u112	Thank you. So I'm going to start by continuing the moratorium on scheduled checks for the quarantine period. Controls cannot carry out planned checks except for high - risk sanitation and epidemiological well - being enterprises that are most sensitive to pandemic conditions. This is prescribed in the law. With regard to the President's proposals today's drafts, we propose to expand the list of expenses to which funds can be channelled from the respective fund. First. To provide disposable material assistance to individuals who are entrepreneurs and employees who may lose their income if they increase their restrictions on the sphere of activity. I repeat, this is a one-time material aid of 8,000 dollars. The projected amount of money needed to implement this program is about 10 billion dollars. The other one. Costs from the Coronation Foundation will also be able to focus on providing one - time material assistance to operators in order to preserve the employment of hired workers. This is very important, because this is one of the key tasks of the government -- creating and saving jobs. The estimated amount of funds needed to implement the program is about 2 billion dollars. In fact, only through the State of Employment since the beginning of quarantine have some 440,000 people been employed today. Also, government economic support programs have saved jobs for nearly 400,000 more Ukrainians. Third. Another direction to which it is proposed to channel money from the Crown Fund is to grant one-off compensation in the amount of a single contribution paid by legal persons whose activities will be subject to enhanced restrictive measures during quarantine. The estimated amount of funds needed to implement the program is about 1.5 billion dollars. Please support the third bill, which is final in these bills submitted by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u113	Thank you. The vice president of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u114	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich! Dear National Deputies! On November 30, the Committee on Budget Affairs discussed Bill 4431. The bill proposes to extend the direction of COVID-19 spending by providing social support for insured persons in the current year in the event of loss of income, as well as support for conservation of jobs and compensation for expenses incurred for the sole social contribution. It should be noted that the bill is systematically linked and derived from Bill 4429, which recognizes the general principles, order, and forms of social support for insured persons and owners for the period of restrictive anti - epidemic measures in connection with coronary disease. As a result of the review, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of number 4431 to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law after the adoption of the entire bill by number 4429. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u115	Thank you. Please write down: two in, two in, and two in, from factions and MPs who insist if they are. Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u116	Good afternoon. I'm asking you to pass the word to Alexander Korneyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u117	Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u118	Please support this important presidential bill. These are changes to the state budget that will allow the previous two bills to start paying in the shortest possible time, and by the New Year, I hope that the government will be able to organise the first instalment of payments so that the Ukrainians can start receiving this assistance. We thank all factions and all members of the majority for supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u119	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u120	Do you know why natural persons entrepreneurs are back under the Supreme Council? It's like they've adopted a bill that they need and they should be happy, but they don't, because they know the level of cynicism of today's power. Because today we're considering removing the moratorium on checks, today we're adding 8,000 dollars, but in the 2021 budget, once again the EU's growth for the FOPs, once again they're increasing the second group's tax because they're giving one hand and the other they're going to take away. And people don't like this cynicism. That's why they're going out and going out to both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. But it's also desirable to approach the Office of the President of Ukraine, because that's where the instruction goes. Because cynicism is in the vertical order of power today, for which President Zelenski is fully responsible. And it's going to happen as it is today with medicine, and with the protection of citizens from the Coronavirus epidemic, when the government is boldly reporting on increasing beds equipped with oxygen concentrators, but they're not really there. When the beds are located in the corridors, they are equipped with nothing, and the oxygen concentrator is a handmade balloon. And these pictures are sent to me from all over Ukraine. Because today, Green people have nothing to breathe not only in a figurative sense but also in a direct sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u121	Thank you. Polack. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u122	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, help is needed today by everyone who lives in our country — both small, medium, large businesses and social groups. We'll support this bill, but I'd like to draw attention to something else. Denis Anatoliyovich, if you have the answer to this question, or write it down. The bill, which was adopted in 2014 (1669) to assist business as well, on the removal of state property. That'll be Donbas. After that, they only moved to areas where there's practically a delimitation zone. Today, these bills contain an article where it is now possible for entrepreneurs not to pay insolently for government property. Who will fill the budget today? Is there an opportunity in the state budget today to pay for government property? And how will communities live today? How will they repair the infrastructure, and how will they get out of trouble? Ninety percent have been virtually destroyed in 30 years. And most importantly, 800 families are now homeless in the Luhansk region. Thank God that a temporary commission of inquiry was built today to burn people alive in the Luhansk region of 50,000 acres [50,000 ha] of land, and 22 billion dollars were damaged. Who will be responsible for this, and who will help people today in the winter? Today, 800 families struggle in homes, in hostels, in other people, hiding in their neighbors. Please tell me, when will they receive their help today? We think of each other, we give with one hand, we take with the other hand. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u123	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? "The Voice," "For the Future," and then we vote. Please, four minutes to vote. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, this proposal should have been accepted in the summer when you decided to build roads on the basis of the Antiquities Fund, and you had to channel this money to support small and medium-sized business until it was in such a state of crisis. Today we all understand very well that this 8,000 is like a dead park, but it's better than nothing. But what I want to say to you is that in our country, we certainly need to support small and medium-sized businesses, we need to support our producers. But we still have more than 10 million pensioners in the country, people who survive on 2,000 dollars that there's nothing to be treated for today, there's nothing they can't get medical attention for today. And so, Mr. Prime Minister, is it enough to pry into the construction of roads on self-helps and secessions? Perhaps it is time to make a balanced, professional decision? A person who receives a pension of 2,000 dollars today can't afford to be treated by a coronavirus. A family, a large family that does not receive help from the State, cannot protect its family. Today, a mother who cares for a child with disabilities receives 32 bracelets of government assistance. For this money, she can't just do her job -- she can't protect her child. That's why we're talking to you: in the 2021 budget, you have to separate protection and support programs for small-scale populations. Today we need to make complex and professional decisions. Enough pyar, enough fine action, either to do or to retire. Thank you for your attention. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u125	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, surely, the Voice faction supports this bill, supports the government's early preparation for a possible increase in anti-epidemic measures. But I want to pay attention to three things in this law. The one who wrote it, or had evil intentions, or wrote it very quickly and made many mistakes. First. Once a person can be helped only by persons who have been banned from the field of activity. That is, if a partial ban is imposed, help will not be provided if you read the law as it is written. The other one. No details are provided for the subjects to whom it is to be given. So the government can do whatever it wants, give to those they want, as it used to be with arraignments. And the third. The law goes down in three weeks. That is, there is a great risk of failure. I very much ask the government to pay attention to these three observations, and to make it clear that it's wrong, not bad intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u128	Anton Polakov, MP for the Future. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, what country do you live in? In the country of SCM or in the extreme child? Today, December 4, 2020, and only today have we seen these legislative initiatives. Where have you been? We have already seen the Prime Minister who left on his own. He was drawing us some nice slides, he promised us 100,000 credits for the five-to-seven-to-nine meltdowns. And what's the result? No credit, no help, no nothing. And now you want 2 million entrepreneurs to get 8,000 by New Year's? And you realize that not everyone has access to the Internet, like Tishchenka's Velur. Do you realize that not all will be able to receive this help? And if someone misrepresents an application, will he have to pay it back twice? Is that what the state's doing for the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u130	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is the third bill in a list of the bills that the Supreme Council has supported today, and the Fatherland voted for them in the same way as it does in favour of the one that applies to the point of assistance to entrepreneurs, Ukrainian businesses in the context of the coronavirus, in the context of the pandemic, and in those possible quarantine restrictions that can only be strengthened in Ukraine. Surely these are good points and should be voted for. But now the best help for the Ukrainian business, and this is about all the power, it would be one very simple thing to keep the business from working. Stop the nightmare business, stop using law enforcement not to control the human rights situation and protect people, but to prevent business from doing so. To put an end to the things that limit the ability of the FOPs to make sure that the individual entrepreneurs do not come under the walls of Parliament or of the President's Office, but work to support their families and survive in this situation. That's what the key task of the whole Parliament and the whole authority is to stop hindering entrepreneurs from working properly. And if they're in these today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2020 (Registration No. 4431). Is everyone ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. 4431. [[12:33:51]] For 302 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration number 4431). Please support and vote. [[12:34:20]] For 304 Decision taken. Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, let us once again apply the procedure to allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to immediately sign Bill 4431, the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[12:34:57]] For 301
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u133	Decision taken. Please don't break up. Go back to the hall, dear fellows. We are now using the ad hoc procedure for the consideration of Bill 4460-d. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of the State or of local self - government. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll talk to you about the procedure. We vote on the basis, in general. And the procedure is this: each faction gets up to 2 minutes to speak from the factions. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] There were two of them, no! Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote on the application of the above procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:36:10]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to make a decision to include the above-mentioned bill in the agenda of the day session, referring to 4460-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:36:42]] For 298 Decision taken. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from both the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u134	Honorary colleagues, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, acknowledging the unconstitutional norms of the Criminal Code, told legislators that the latter did not adhere to the principles of justice and proportionality as elements of the rule of law. In doing so, surreally and rationally, juggling such a fundamental principle of law, saying a philosophical and legal nonsense that a constitutional arbitrator understands social well-being better than a parliament. One of the creators of the doctrine of the rule of law, Albert Wenn Daisi, pointed out that this principle is based on the recognition and acceptance of the highest value of the individual, his unalienable rights and freedoms, and that no philosopher and lawyer had laid down in this principle the highest social value of the office of judge, prosecutor or deputy. In his time, Ukrainian constitutionalist Yuri Mikolaiovich Todika pointed out that a review of the rule of law outside the rule of the Constitution is the path to permissiveness and acquittal. We therefore hope that the rule of law will be in line with the constitutional rule of the Constitution, which clearly distinguishes the status, function and mandate of state institutions in the future. The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting reviewed draft laws amending certain legislative acts to restore responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and non-declaration by the subject of the declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under registration number 4434, submitted by the President of Ukraine, as well as 4441, submitted by the People’s Deputies of Monastirski, Heratchenk and others. Since these bills contain positions that regulate the same circle of issues and repeat the substance of the regulation of the same social relations, they may be subject to the procedure provided for in part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council Rules. Thus, members of the committee have prepared a revised bill, which has become compromised and has been supported in all factions by the registration number 4460-d. The bill is complemented by the Criminal Code by a new article 366-2 entitled “Declaration of Untrustworthy Information”, which establishes criminal responsibility in the event that such information differs from reliable information, in the amount of 500 to 4 000 living minimums for working persons, in the form of a fine of 2 000 500 to 3,000 non-taxable minimum incomes for citizens or public works of 150 to 240 hours, with the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for up to 3 years under part one of this article. In cases where such information differs from a reliable minimum of over 4,000 living for working persons, in the form of a fine of 3,000 to 5,000 untaxed minimum incomes for citizens or public works of 150 to 240 hours, or a restriction of free will of up to 2 years with no right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for up to 3 years per part of the second. The Criminal Code is also supplemented by article 366, which establishes criminal responsibility for intentionally failing to declare a person authorized to perform functions of state or local self - government, as a fine of between 2,000 and 53,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens or of civil works depriving him of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities. The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine is determined to be subject to judicial jurisdiction in these offences by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. As a result of the committee’s consideration, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the establishment of responsibility for the declaration of unreliable information and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration by a person authorized to perform the function of State or local government, on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Please sign up: two for. Sorry, write down all the factions for two minutes. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u136	Please give the floor to National Deputy Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u137	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I have a question for the majority. What prevented you from doing so much earlier and in the constitutional procedure? This bill came out literally right away, and we, by failing to abide by the procedure provided for in the Rules, are now going to adopt the law, and, frankly, we are voting for it, we are supporting the law, and we want to see who is really hiding from corruption in this room. And we want to know who's been hiding this law for two months, who doesn't have the intelligence to prepare it. I see artificial won't help you. And I want to ask you one more question. Today, Friday, we started working on Tuesday, we were just looking at three big questions. There was a Prime Minister here, and you didn't have time to prepare those laws before? What prevented you from forming the agenda so that these laws, which we are now making decisions, could be signed immediately, published immediately? Why didn't we vote on Tuesday -- and on Wednesday they were already in effect? What prevented you from doing so? This is your attitude toward people. This is the attitude of the government of Ukraine toward those who have given temporary trust. I am absolutely convinced that this trust will really be very short. And today, in the end, our monopoly on this bill has finally become a reality. I'm sorry we're only doing this today. And let your leading expectations know that this could have been done three more weeks ago, it would have been a wish. And what you do now is under pressure and pressure, not with an open heart, we warn you, we'll check the procedure. And our faction will vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u139	Nestor Ivanovich, this was to some extent and I had a question, so I'll answer it. First. Why today? Because before that, some factions didn't give a rapid application procedure to these three bills, and we totally stuck with all the legislative lines, I report. The other one. We're going to sign quickly, they're going to come into force quickly, and we're going to vote quickly. The second question is about this bill. All the factions have been added to the work of the working group, for which I would like to thank everyone, as well as the representatives of the President's Office. And just as soon as we compromised and worked as a committee, we were able to move out immediately. I am grateful to all my colleagues that we are considering this bill today. As for procedures, we use this procedure with the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so I don't think there will be any objections to it either. Thank you for the performance. Thank you. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u140	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Today we are looking at a really important bill, which aims at demonstrating that the Ukrainian Parliament and, in general, the Ukrainian authorities are intolerant of such a negative phenomenon as corruption. With regard to this bill, emphasis should be placed on a few key points. The first key point. Ukraine’s Constitutional Court of October 27, 2020, declared unconstitutional article 366 prim. 1 The Criminal Code of Ukraine actually interfered with the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because according to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Parliament alone determines what is a crime and what should be the responsibility for that crime. The Constitutional Court, with that logic, will tomorrow find any article of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to be disproportionately punished. And that's why this bill aims, including demonstrating that this is the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second key point. President Zelensky has consistently advocated the most severe punishment for acts of corruption. He insisted that in article 366 pr. 2 Punishment must be provided for such punishment as willful abandonment. However, the working group believes that the removal of Vladimir Vasilovich is not entirely cohesive, considering the sad judgment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. To our conviction, this bill that we are looking at today has to be supported as some kind of compromise, but in the future, I think we need to consider the issue of a more stringent measure of responsibility for acts of corruption. Today, the "Voice" faction of Ukraine will certainly vote in favour of this bill and call on everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u141	Thank you. I think another faction does have a name. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, please. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u142	Dear Ukrainians! President Peter Prashenko's political team introduced an electronic declaration. Our team has been declaring for five years and has been fully vetting our declarations. What happened when an intellectual lockdown arrived in the country? At first, the "servants" delayed the introduction of declarations in 2019 for two months. Then, with the full agreement of the Bank, as stated by the architect, Mr. Bogdan, President of Greens, this scandalous decision of the Constitutional Court was taken. And now Greensky and his team have been pulling the cat by the tail, so that this year millions of officials, including the servants in this room, will avoid checking out declarations. The non-admission of this law threatens, firstly, the loss of a visa. Because electronic declaration is really one of the most important parts of visa-free liberalisation. Similarly, thousands of officials will escape responsibility again. Our political team on the first day following the decision of the scandalous Constitutional Court passed a series of bills to fully reinstate criminal responsibility. Sadly, this session hall did not have the political will to even consider them on the committee, even to move them to the session hall. And that's why as a compromise we both signed the Razumkov bill and worked in a working group to regain criminal responsibility. Why can't we vote on Greensky's bill? Friends, but because it establishes non-declaration of power structures. So that those involved in the defense order do not again declare those at risk of corruption. And so, of course, the working group's bill is compromised, and we are ready to change it tomorrow and vote in favour of increasing criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u143	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u144	The Fatherland faction acknowledged the Constitutional Court's decision. And whatever the constitutional upheaval is, we've all accepted this decision: both NAZK and all the other organs. Stop talking about constitutional coups. You've made a mistake. Fix it now! We have tabled three bills to correct this: a bill on criminal liability; a bill that deals with the specificity of being held accountable, including the judges of the Constitutional Court, for misdeclaration. And we proposed, in my opinion, the very best rule: Parliament should approve the rules of procedure of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we have been misled, time taken, and during this time dozens of criminal cases have been disrupted in order to bring the authorities to justice. Three years of declarations that have been approved by the previous summons have actually been thrown into the trash. We supported the Supreme Council's bill, which was completely compromised and allowed the situation to be regulated for two months. And now we've reached the pen, as it's called. It's clear that the faction will support this bill because we don't want to repeat the same story with the Constitutional Court ruling that the President's unconstitutional bill or any other bill will fall out of the declaration again in 2020. And someone will talk about the fight against corruption. That's why we have to vote for this decision. After that, to make immediate decisions regarding the judges of the Constitutional Court if they, God forbid, violated the electronic declaration. Further to adopt decisions on the work of the Constitutional Court, but it is legal to adopt the Rules by this very chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u145	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u146	Please give it to Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u147	Oddczuk Andry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker! The 20th month is run by Vladimir Zelensky and the 95th quarter team, who took power in anti-corruption rhetoric. During this time, the system of law enforcement agencies, anticorruption bodies, and anticorruption infrastructure have virtually been destroyed. THE U.S.A. continues to hold its defenses in its full siege by some miracle. The Anti-Corruption Court is trying to work, and he's always getting his wings cut. And now, in fact, in the ruins of NAZK, and in fact in the ruins of our commitments to the European Union, which is the implementation of the strategic course set out in the Constitution of Ukraine, we are trying to save article 366-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and in fact to save the European choice of Ukraine. We do not like the legal structure and logic of the so - called compromise. But we understand and acknowledge that we cannot ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court, however much we dislike it. We realize that it is extremely critical to adopt decisions, for disapproval of decisions will have absolutely devastating consequences for all. So in this difficult situation, the Voice faction will support the so-called compromise, but we will immediately make changes to this article, which will require us to lower the threshold of criminal responsibility and to put in place a prison for top-corruption workers who, as Vladimir Zelensky ordered, are to sit in prison. It is under these conditions that we support today’s compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Irina Konstanovic, Party for the Future. Taras Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have a representative of the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who is so confused about the concept and the name of the family faction to which he belongs and represents himself before the Constitutional Court, that it is no wonder that he treats the decision of the Constitutional Court so arbitrarily. I think we have an independent body in the country, the only and independent one called the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who is the only one who can interpret the Constitution of Ukraine. And we don't have any constitutional coup d'état, no matter how much someone doesn't want to treat it that way. And it's only in our country that we're talking loudly about the fight against corruption, and in fact, we haven't moved one step or another in this direction. Let me remind you, my friends, that the decision of the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the imposition of criminal responsibility for a violation of a declaration is an excessive punishment. That's why our task force was created by Helen Constantine and by the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who worked on a complex solution. There was a bill by the President's Office that actually broke the situation. This situation reminded me of Schweik when we won the war or the fight, but the General Staff intervened -- and we lost that fight, the President's Office intervened -- and we want to lose that fight. We don't want to lose this fight, we want responsibility, honest, true responsibility. We do not want only rural deputies to be punished for 366 articles. 40 of the 70 and the verdicts apply only to rural deputies. We want international experience, study international experience, as in the FERN, as in Britain, as in other countries, and how there is punishment for non-declaration. Therefore, it is important for us to adopt a law that corresponds to the decision of the Constitutional Court. We are choosing the rule of law of Ukraine, and in this situation, of course, we are voting today for this decision, however difficult this situation may be for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Alexander Sukhov, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u152	Please give Baba a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u153	Grandma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed immediately to the vote after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, more than a month has passed since a truly disgraceful decision of the Constitutional Court was taken that abolished criminal responsibility, in fact, for corruption crimes in the form of non-declaration or the filing of classified data in a declaration by public officials. I fully agree with the representative of the President of the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court has gone beyond its powers, since this is not the right of the Constitutional Court to determine the degree of social danger of an act and the appropriate punishment for it. Only the Ukrainian Parliament, which is the only legislative and representative body of the Ukrainian people, can determine whether corruption is really the evil for which we should put ourselves in prison rather than simply impose fines or not. But I also have a question about the work of the law enforcement system, as well as the issue of power. And if we are talking about the Constitutional Court going beyond its authority, that it has exceeded its authority, will we see criminal cases on this issue? Answer that question. The "Trust" MP will certainly vote in favour of the bill because today it is the only compromise that has brought together all the factions of Parliament, and we will finally regain the real criminal responsibility for such a shameful phenomenon as corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill is compromising. In fact, he was also born as part of the work of the working group -- I would like once again to thank the representatives of all the MP factions and groups -- and within the framework of that bill that was proposed by the President. And we've been trying to find a balance and use everything that's positive that's in one bill and in another so that as quickly as possible, because in this case speed is a very important aspect, we need to adopt this law in order for it to take effect by the end of this year and we don't break the electronic declaration system. I am grateful to all the colleagues who have joined all the factions and groups and during our meetings, which have taken place in the off - schedule. But it's very important that we get the support of the hall around this bill today. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I will, with your permission, continue the session for 15 minutes, so that we can vote peacefully, or we can just go straight to "Razne." Is there no objection? Because time's running out, we'll go to the Vault. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Oh, wait, dear fellows, stop! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government (registration number 4460-d). Please support and vote. [[13:01:06]] For 287 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government (registration number 4460-d). Please support and vote. [[13:01:49]] For 289 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 195, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 15, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherhood" – 11, "The Party for the Future" – 9, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 17, "the non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, thank you all again. Mikhailo Borisovich Raducki is from the procedure. Keep your distance, one question. Now let's figure it out, and you'll say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to now vote on Bill 4314, which allows me to shorten the deadline for the registration of the COVID vaccine that Ukraine is to receive from the COVAX association.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-04-m0.u158	Wait, wait, wait. Two questions, the factions are turning. Dear colleagues, I'll sign it on Monday, and we'll be able to publish everything, do everything. There is a proposal in this bill not to do so, for the time being. Is there no objection? None. I hope so. The only thing I'd like to hear from my colleagues right now is that no one's going to block the decisions. Thank you very much. Natalia Yuriovna, I have good hearing. I see. Are you going to block it? There can't be such a thing! Mikhailo Borisovich made a proposal without discussion to vote on Bill 4314. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of coronary disease (registration number 4314). Is there no objection? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of coronary disease (SOVID-19) (registration No. 4314). Please support and vote. [[13:04:02]] For 267 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of coronary disease (SOVID-19) (registration No. 4314). Please support and vote. [[13:04:36]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, is it necessary for today's "Victory"? It's been a busy day, maybe next time we'll continue? Is there any objection? Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
