ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-30-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? I can't hear you. Request before. Masks? What? Dear colleagues, please put on your masks. Not "no" but "yes"! [[B in m in s a l in]] The machine was handing out everything! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Look, is there an allergy? Now the coronavirus-- let's see what's better! Put on a mask, please. Elizabeth Petrovna, please! Look, we're showing people. The machine's got everyone. Thank you all. Alexander Anatolyovich Dubinsky, put on the mask, please. Alexander Anatolyevich, I'll give you mine now. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[14:08:20]] There are 292 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open, Honorable National Deputies, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of issues identified in the calls for an extraordinary meeting is given to you. So let's get to the point. In parallel, I would like to point out that, first of all, I would like to thank once again all the people's deputies working in the Supreme Council today, both in the Hall and in the Committees. We work, work, and work as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, I wanted to thank everyone for the bill that was drafted by all the MP factions, the groups in Parliament, all those who joined, all those who worked around the clock. [[Applause]] Thank you, dear fellows, for all who have worked. Dear colleagues, we have also agreed with the leaders of the MP factions and groups that will take decisions at this extraordinary meeting without discussion. I'm going to ask questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and I'm going to propose to vote immediately. Is there no objection? Okay. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of treatment for coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3268). We need to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:10:28]] For 301 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we're going to vote for the law, we're going to show by factions. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of treatment for coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3268). Please support and vote. [[14:11:03]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of treatment for coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3268). Please support and vote. [[14:11:38]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 203, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 5, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 10, non-fractional – 14. Next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in connection with the spread of coronary disease (COVID-2019) (Registration No. 3275). We need to put it in the order of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:12:32]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in connection with the spread of coronary disease (COVID-2019) (registration No. 3275). Please support and vote. [[14:13:07]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights of the bill, registration number 3275. Please support and vote. [[14:13:34]] For 312 Decision taken. Show by factions. "The Servant of the People" – 205, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherland" – 12, "For the Future" – 12, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 12, "the Non-Flocked" – 14. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the criminalization of exports (transport) across Ukraine's customs borders of anti-epidemic goods. We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:14:23]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the criminalization of exports (transport) across Ukraine’s customs territory of goods of anti-epidemic destination (registration number 3271). Please support and vote. [[14:15:00]] For 274 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Transitional Provisions of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the features of judicial control over the enforcement of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in criminal conduct and the consideration of individual matters during the quarantine period established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of coronary disease (registration No. 3276). It is necessary to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:15:51]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues agreed to accept it on the Conciliation Council yesterday, just so there were no questions. At a meeting with faction leaders and groups to adopt this bill as a basis. The committee's decision is on the basis and in general. Let's put it on the base. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Transitional Provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the features of judicial control over the observance of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in the criminal conduct and consideration of individual matters during the quarantine period established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of preventing the spread of coronary disease (registration No. 3276). Please support and vote. [[14:17:02]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal to cut in half the preparation time for the second reading, the granting of rights and suggestions. I'll bet you a vote. Shortening, I don't think so. Please support and vote, registration number 3276, bill registration number 3276. Please support and vote. [[14:17:43]] For 275 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 206, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 25, "Eurosolidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 3, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 11, "the Non-Factional" – 11. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3277). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:18:24]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3277). Please support and vote. [[14:18:53]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights and the Committee's proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 3277). Please support and vote. [[14:19:28]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. It's the Committee Video Formation Act. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 207, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 3, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Flocking" – 12. Thank you again. Next question. This is a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Ordinance on certain issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of quarantine in Ukraine (registration number 3278). I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of quarantine in Ukraine (registration No. 3278). Please support and vote. [[14:20:42]] For the 320. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-30-m0.u2	"The Servant of the People" – 209, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 13. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-30-m0.u3	Next question of the agenda. This is the draft Decision on the release of the Ummanski Igor Ivanovich from office of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine (registration number 3281). I'll bet you a vote. What? I'll bet you a vote on the motion to accept the release order. Support the Order on the Liberation of the Ummanski Igor Ivanovich from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine (Registration No. 3281). Please support and vote. [[14:22:07]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 187, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 17, "Trust" – 14, "non-factional" – 5. You have been given a draft decision on the release of the German Illy Mikolaiovich from the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. — Registration No. 3283. I am voting on the proposal to support the draft decree on the release of the German Ilya Mikolaiovich from the office of the Ministry of Health (registration number 3283). Please support and vote. [[14:23:07]] For 271 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 201, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 17, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 10. The next question is the question. You have been given a draft Decision appointing Marchenko Sergio Mihajlovich as Minister of Finance of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal to support the draft Order on the appointment of Marchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine (registration number 3282). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:24:26]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show by factions. Next question. A letter from the President of Ukraine was received in addition to a letter dated 29 March 2020 No. 01-01/227: "Please exclude the question of the appointment of the Bushman as Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine from the agenda of the day-to-day extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." So the question is out of the order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order for the appointment of Stepanov as Ukrainian Minister of Health. Stepan's Maxim Volodymyrovich. I'll bet you a vote. Can I have a little quieter? Dear colleagues! Sergei Volodymyrovich! I'll bet you a vote. Thank you. I am voting for the proposal to support the project The Order for the appointment of Stepanov Maxim Volodymyrovich as Minister of Health of Ukraine (Registration No. 3284). Please support and vote. [[14:26:19]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Next question. Next question. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3279). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:27:26]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 206, "Response Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 13, non-fractional – 6. Dennis Anatolyevich, I think I should say a few words. The report is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Šmigal Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-30-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Leaders of factions, Committees, Honorable Ukrainians, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! The 2020 budget is in fact the budget for the extraordinary situation in Ukraine. In order to take rapid measures to combat and combat infection, COVID-19 takes extraordinary, sometimes unpopular steps. Thank you to the factions, thank you to the committees that have joined in drafting this bill. Practically all the suggestions were taken into account. Although you understand how difficult it has been for you to make those or other decisions on oblivion, I stress the temporary elimination of the implementation of those articles, from which the costs have been shifted to priority number one in our country -- the fight against the coronavirus. So today we have carefully reviewed all expenses, and we realize that we need to start with ourselves. A decision has been made to reduce wages to no more than 10 minimum wages in Ukraine for all categories and officials and officials without exception. We've also actually set up a fund to fight the coronavirus for more than 97 billion dollars, which will be directed at an exclusive list. An extremely transparent tool to combat the coronavirus: medical support, hardware purchase, medicine, and personal protection. We also agreed with the deputies that we would create a separate bill and vote for the support of small, medium, state, and municipal businesses, which today will need such support in connection with the effects of coronavirus in the world. We will definitely support local self - government. We left the excise. We have left behind a number of tools for local self - government, putting aside some of the capital costs that we will recover after we defeat the coronavirus and its consequences. So we will work with local self - government. Part of the subsidies remained. In addition, we anticipate from this fund the possibility of funding local self-government authorities to also have their tools to fight the disease and the consequences of the infection. Social support programs and mechanisms. We have foreseen an increase of 31.6 billion dollars in the budget to provide our pensioners with payment in a timely manner. We've already said that and we've seen it today in changes to the state budget: payment to all pensioners of 1,000 dollars, those pensioners who have less than 5,000 dollars in cash. And we're also developing a series of mechanisms that are designed to help the population in speeding up their salaries for losing their jobs, aid mechanisms for housing and utilities. In fact, the main articles remained developmental. So we haven't moved roads, we haven't moved large infrastructure objects, we've left most of the expenditure on culture, we've left most of the education -- the ones that are going to be implemented, the ones that are giving development to these sectors. Of course, there's been a series of, I repeat, unpopular decisions about creating a fund to fight the coronavirus at the expense of part of the capital expenditure, which, once again, we will return. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your support and for your consistent position in the face of the threat of the coronavirus to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-30-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration No. 3279). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:34:41]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration No. 3279). Please support and vote. [[14:35:24]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to shorten the deadlines for preparation for the first reading and submission of alternative drafts. I am voting on this proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration number 3279). Please support and vote. [[14:36:01]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills to the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Legislative Acts on the Improvement of Certain Mechanisms for the Regulation of Banking Activities (Registration No.3260). I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline for the submission of alternative bills to the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Legislative Acts on the Improvement of Certain Mechanisms for the Regulation of Banking Activities (Registration No. 3260). Please support and vote. [[14:37:01]] For 271 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am now closing the first consecutive meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're discussing the next question right now, this is the Food Bill in the Armed Forces, which is what was called for by the Conciliation Council. I'll bet you a vote. Excuse me, fellow officers. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
