ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have a request for two minutes of factions' heads to discuss one question? Good morning, dear colleagues. Please prepare to register. Once again, good morning, distinguished colleagues, good morning, distinguished media representatives, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare to register. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:11:54]] There are 331 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the list of questions that you have been asked to consider today, is now under discussion. You are invited to consider the draft decree on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. If there is no objection, please support and vote. [[10:12:41]] For 274 Thank you. 274 – a.k.a. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to draft Decree 2745: the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call made by the national deputies of the Regulatory Committee, as decided by the Committee on January 15. This draft decree is prepared in accordance with the requirements of article 83 of the Constitution, articles 10, 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan proposes to begin the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4 and to complete its work on July 17, 2020. The draft calendar plan provides: for parliamentary plenary meetings of 12 weeks, for committees, committees, committees, parliamentary factions, parliamentary groups of 7 weeks, for national deputies of Ukraine to work with voters for 5 weeks, for "hours of questions to the Government" in the Supreme Council - 12 hours. During the preparation of the calendar plan, there are holidays, nonwork days, and religious festivals. The next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will take place in April and June, is also included. In part, the timetable for the actions of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in 2020 is taken into account. The committee decided to recommend to Parliament the draft regulation as a basis and as a whole. Please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, would you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? No, it's not. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole in the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2745). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:15:21]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law on complete general secondary education (registration number 0901). Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Education, Science, Innovation of Koleboshin Sergey Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, in my second reading, I am presenting Bill No. 0901: on complete general secondary education. This bill is of great social importance, in fact, it is the law on all schools in Ukraine and its 15,000. He will set up a vector for the development of the entire school system, which means the whole of Ukraine, because all Ukrainians and Ukrainians were, are or will be school students. I will briefly stop at all the novelties and significant nuances of this law: better education, individual education trajectory, anti-buling is for children; educational boarding, certification, new opportunities for professional growth for teachers; academic integrity and control; support for family forms of learning; safe teaching environment for parents; and greater financial autonomy for school administrations and founders. This bill has actually been overlooked, because the real Secondary Education Act of the 99th year is completely out of line with the new Basic Education Act of 2017. In preparing the bill for second reading, the Supreme Council’s profile committee involved all the steakholders. There were 19 working group meetings, 4 subcommittee meetings, 4 committee meetings, which resulted in a radical improvement in the bill. Each of the 553 rights of the people’s deputies to the second reading has been carefully considered. The text of the bill, which is given to you, includes 393. Several hundred proposals were made by professional and professional educational organizations, educational institutions, administrations from all parts of Ukraine. The bill was publicized, and professional information was taken into account from all the peer issues of the bill prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation at its meeting in accordance with article 93 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered a draft of the Ukraine’s Comprehensive Secondary Education (Registration No. 0901) Act, prepared for the second reading, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and in general. For the purpose of modernizing the Ukrainian school, for the better readiness of young Ukrainians to grow up and for the greater confidence of Ukrainian parents in the success of their children in a rapidly changing and demanding world, please support the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are plenty of rights and offers. Please tell me, which of the national deputies will insist on their actions? I see Sowsun. Pippa, Sosun and, Ivan Grigorovich, you are. Can you please tell me, can we group up? Yeah, I remember Pippa, too, right? If you don't mind, we'll start with colleagues. Sussun Inna Romanovna Would you like to come from the rostrum? All right, come on. Turn on six minutes, please. Five minutes, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! I understand that now all are ruined by the many events that are taking place in the country, and the Education Act is never a priority. But I would like us to take this issue seriously, because education is what determines what our country will be like in the future. And Ukrainian schools need systematic changes. The acute need for change is discussed by universities, employers, and above all by parents and students themselves. We have nowhere to go and nothing to lose. This was shown by the results of an international study of PISA. These results showed that in Ukraine 1 in 3 children does not know mathematics at a minimum. We have a quarter of 15-year-old students who can't read and understand the text, and they don't understand natural science. We continue to be proud of our education, but the truth is that we have worse educational results than the Poles than the Hungarians, let alone the Estonians. Children from poor families in Ukraine are particularly discriminated against. If your child does not live in a large city, his parents do not get a salary in dollars or in high officials ’ bonuses, they have six times the worst chance of getting a quality education. If your child lives in a village, he will never have the same chances as those of more privileged families. The Ukrainian education system wastes talent and creates no conditions for the development of children, and it is a crime. That's why we need a new Secondary Education Act. We've been waiting for this Secondary Education Act since 2015, but then the authorities decided to adopt the Framework Law on Education instead of developing a Professional Law on School. As a result, we have diverted the real beginning of the five - year reform. You know, as a teacher, I sometimes let my students quit work later, but in that case, as a teacher, I expect a good job. But now I'm going to tell you one thing about this law: what we got, what we got is a job not for five, it's a job, at best, for three. Yes, there are important changes in this law, and there are positive changes. And I'm glad that a lot of them came up with Voice. We managed to reduce the number of students in primary school from 30 to 24. We were able to change our assessment approach in primary school, and we were able to strengthen the role of the students in our school life. This law provides for new procedures that will allow honest professionals to occupy transparent positions as school principals. But at the same time, this law doesn't answer a lot of questions, and I'm very sorry that we're adopting a law that doesn't really answer a bunch of questions. I remember when the new minister of education took office, she promised to continue the line of her predecessor. It seems that it was not about the development of education but about avoiding complex issues. What questions does this law fail to answer? Why, when the whole world is moving towards decentralization of decision-making, are we in Ukraine maintaining total control of Minosvets over what is happening in schools? Where is the promised autonomy of the teacher and the autonomy of the school in the formation of teaching programs? Yes, the State must determine what the disciples should know, but teachers are fully able to determine for themselves how they can achieve these results. The second question. Why do we continue the Soviet equation? Why were we afraid of taking into account our adjustments that would allow students in high school to choose at least some of the subjects? Question three. When will teachers finally begin to receive a high and guaranteed salary? The minister promised that there would be a wage reform, which would be a reform that would help raise wages and change the structure of wages. Where are these changes in the law? They're not in the law. The minister also promised that we would move on to compulsory teacher certification in order to ensure that teachers who know how to work with our children come to school. Where's the law? It's not in the law of these rights. Where was the strategy of reforming a senior school of profile promised six months ago? Six months we hear something, we hear there's going to be some concepts, there's going to be some changes. As a result, the law does not say a word about the profile of a senior school in the country. We're going to have kids teaching 20 classes in the 11th grade. What's the point in this law? Why do we accept it if it does not answer these questions? The last question that this law does not answer. We have a huge problem with the school network. We have overcrowded classes in cities, and children in the village are unfortunately learning under terrible conditions. Sadly, this law does not provide any answer to the question of how to solve the problem. Where are the answers to all these questions? Tell me, why are we adopting a law that doesn't answer so many of these complex questions? I heard during the committee discussions that it was difficult and unpopular. But, you know, unpopular, unpopular is that we have 36 percent of children who don't know math. And the next time we get the next PISSA results and we get the same results from mathematics, that's going to be the responsibility of this parliament, which is now going to be happy to press green buttons to vote on a law that doesn't solve any problems in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Please turn on the microphone. Ivan Grigorovich, two minutes? Three?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction has studied very carefully the basic principles of this, of course, of the reformist law, which I recall in the first reading was adopted by the previous Parliament. During this time, several hundred amendments were made, most of which significantly improved the final edition. In making the final decision and our amendments, the faction was based on proposals from educational public organizations, trade unions, representatives of education, professionals, and I thank you for taking them into account. Thus, the adoption of the law will contribute to the achievement of strategic goals, including the concept of the implementation of public policy in the area of reform of general secondary education by 2029. The adoption of the law applies to a large number of Ukrainian citizens, lays the foundations for their intellectual and spiritual development, determines the future of our nation. I would like to point out that the committee is extremely balanced and responsible for the final drafting of the law, and it deserves approval in general. Yet, it remains separate, but very principled, for our faction of norms. First. Labour relations, the transfer to a contract of directors, and especially retired teachers, and for another year, the faction finds it difficult to discriminate and to violate the Labour Code, but also a standard that is very important, which can provoke a person to desecrate a school in the first place. The second conclusion emerges from the first. We want new young people, educators, to be more involved in the radical increase in the prestige of the teacher’s work. Such an answer will still have to be pursued through other laws, especially through the state budget. Third. Retraining already in force and the schools provided for by law is a problematic issue, especially for small cities. Next. The selection of school managers is limited to two terms. It's also an issue, we think, of course. Only real practice can provide an answer to the positive impact that this will have on the learning process in each particular case. The faction today basically supports and votes in favour, but we're willing to work on this law, on its improvement, and especially on the part of, as I've already said, the contract, for us, it's a very, very problematic issue, and an increase in prestige, for which we're going to fight in the budget review and in the coming fiscal years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u9	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Pippa Natalia Romanovna. Afterwards, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. And then we go to the vote, right? Vadim Evgeniovich, well, you spoke from Fatherland. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainians! I have a key, fundamental question. This law awaits millions of people, all educated, and every child of school age. I want to ask you, which graduate of the New Ukrainian School do we want? What country do we want to see in 5 or 10 years? I'm in the process of reforming my own profile school, senior year of the New Ukrainian School, and I talk to teachers and graduates every day. Everyone wants change, but not the changes that are in the law today. We know that when a person is sick, he is helped by treatment, but it does not help him to treat. Yeah, it's reform, but it's kind of closer to half-reform. I am very concerned that this law will not produce the results that we want. For example, we offered each graduate the opportunity to choose 30 percent of basic items, 40 percent of basics, and 30 percent of our choice, such as financial management or personal skills. It's not in the law. I call on all of us, parliamentarians and the entire Ukrainian people, to be brave, because only the brave are happy. And I suggest we make these changes together, and we complete this law and reform really strong. I understand that education is an environment that misreads change. But without them, there is no change in the country. Poland and Finland, when they wanted to make a breakthrough, put all the effort and money into education. Without quality education, it is also impossible for us to have an island country that awaits every Ukrainian and every one of us. Let us be courageous and create this breakthrough for a successful country together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Irina Miroslavna. And then after that, it's a readjustment. One piece of Yvchenka? And let's go to the vote. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the position of the Group for the Future, which represents the majority MPs and more than 4 million voters. We've become very familiar with the standards of the education bill. And we think he's on time, he's compromised, he's one that fits the modern realities of our social, economic, political and humanitarian life. I would like to point out that this bill is also transitional. Because again ruining education because of revolutionary changes, I don't think it's appropriate. And it would be a good thing if there was a minister of economics in the government's bed today with the minister of education to confirm the educational's progressive intentions for change. Education can only be changed if we have sufficient financial and financial resources. And in the context of that, I don't see the government supporting the Ministry of Education in secondary education, both in higher education and in extra-school education to the extent that it meets the revolutionary changes. This is the first thesis. Your Honor, until you support financial school, there will be no change. Another thesis. For the future, majors, we insist that education be accessible not only to the city's schoolchildren, but also to the rural child. Why do we have mathematics, English in a rural school below the plentuse? Look at how many teachers are working there and how much money they're working for. This is the second thesis on which the Group "For the Future" stands. And the third. Until the Ukrainian teacher is gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u13	Thank you. One sentence, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u14	Until the Ukrainian teacher gets a decent salary, at least 10 times as much as our minister or culture or foreign affairs, the Ukrainian teacher will still be on the sidelines. Let's support the Ukrainian teacher with a bracelet and a big bracelet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now another bill to be taken into account, I understand, Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenka. Then we go to the vote. Invite people's deputies. Two revisions. Turn it on. No, one check is two minutes, so the Rules don't work. One check is one minute, Vadim Evgenovich. Turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u16	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we've given a lot of rights, and I wanted to especially thank the committee that took into account the fatherland regulations that it had developed with the education professions. In part, I want to thank you for saving the extras and extras for certain kinds of pedagogical activities. This is article 24. We have introduced voluntary certification not only for teachers but for all teachers. This is article 49, and this was our readjustment. A reduced working time for pedagogical workers — article 24, was also included. Special thanks for article 12, where we do not allow schools to be closed, small - size schools, especially in rural areas, where we wanted to introduce a limited number of students. But, fellows, I wanted to make an application to support you, 183. It's about employment contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u17	183 rights? No, it's not. Vadim Evgenovich, one line. No, Vadim Evgenovich. 183rd. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u18	Thank you. I want to say 183 rights, colleagues, it converts retired workers into contractual forms, and it certainly discriminates against these workers at an age. Colleagues, we have a lot of laws: rules for preventing and resisting discrimination, which exactly calls these novels discriminatory; colleagues, the Labour Code, which also violates this amendment. Let's please support this exercise, and believe me, the educators will say "thank you" to the committee's work and to the work of the parliamentarians. These are our teachers with you, let's not discriminate against them, because many of us colleagues are also retirement age, and believe me, when they're told that "you'll only be able to work a year or two." And they have in them both the strength and the desire to teach us with you, what is actually possible today in school and college.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u19	Committee position, 183 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u20	Yeah, I get it. Thank you for your position, Vadim Evgenovich. In fact, we've taken into account many positions in common and with the professions of your positions while working on the bill, but in this position, we are fundamentally standing in the form of rejecting this amendment. Here I speak not only as a national MP but as a person who has passed the entire school line — from a laboratory, a teacher, a principal from a teaching family, a family. Because this rule is: (a) to promote the balance of generations; (b) to enable young teachers to enter school normally rather than to wait years for normal exercise. And it's a bad director who's not going to transfer a retired teacher to a contract, it's going to be getting rid of him. I don't even see directors who can do that in their mind. So the committee did not support the amendment, and it rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, 183 revisions, I'm putting it on the stand. If you'll excuse me, she wasn't taken into account by the committee, that's exactly the position the committee holds. Please identify and vote. [[10:37:47]] For-89 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on complete general secondary education (registration No. 0901). Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, Negulewski! We're not bothering you? Thank you, thank you for not interrupting. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:39:04]] For 327 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 234, Opposition Platform – Lifetime – 2, European Solidarity – 26, Parenthood – 22, Future – 16, Voice – 0, Trust – 16, non-factional – 11. Thanks again. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on State regulation of organization and gambling. This is a rereading of the first reading. Registration numbers: 2285-d, 2285-8, 2285-9, 2285-10. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:40:11]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of Marousek Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u22	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy proposes a bill for the consideration of the Supreme Council on State regulation of organization and gambling (2285). We voted on the committee by a majority, and we chose it as a basis. You all know the complex and serious discussions we had on this issue. The project included all the essential factors: social, economic, and even medical. This bill is optimal in terms of the interests of the state, citizens and business. In the draft Law, we introduce the principle of responsible play and allow it to be played only after 21 years. In this way, we clearly regulate the responsibility of business to provoke and promote the game of addiction -- crazyomania. As far as advertising gambling is concerned, we introduce strict rules so that advertising does not deceive people that gambling is an easy way of getting rich. Criminal responsibility is being imposed for gambling without a license, restrictions will be imposed on the location of playgrounds on the streets of cities, and slots will only be placed in hotels of category 3, 4, 5 stars. About the lottery. The lottery will only be classic. There won't be any halls called the "mythy lottery," under which the casinos are disguised. We forbid the play business of legal persons whose ultimate owner is a resident of the aggressor state. Also important is the financial component. The budget from the gaming business is estimated to come in the first year from 2.5 billion to 4 billion dollars to support medicine, culture, and sports. When we adopt this law, we get a normal, regulated, civilized market for gambling, and we show everyone that we can solve complex problems on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u23	Give him two minutes. And from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u24	So I ask you to support and vote in favour, and I suggest you take this bill as a basis. I urge everyone to join in the work on this bill for second reading. I'm sure all the best suggestions and corrections will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u26	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! We are now discussing with you the most important question -- the question that concerns each of us, every citizen of our country. What will be our country — a country of gamers, lunatics, or a country that will raise a new generation of Ukrainians who would be proud of their state, who would be proud of their future? Unfortunately, we understand that the peace mafia that wants to take Ukraine today and bring the casinos back here has a huge impact on this Parliament. Unfortunately, we see that no bill is so often viewed by Parliament as a return to the game business. We welcome the law enforcement agencies that have demonstrated that in one day they have closed all the casinos, they have demonstrated to the whole country that this business can now be controlled, closed and eradicated, like immigration, in Ukraine. So give them the opportunity, give them the opportunity today, apply all the power you can -- and clear Ukraine of the illegal gaming business. Let the country develop peacefully. Look, it's not an economic miracle when you return the game business, sell the land, and return slavery to the Labour Code. This is not the future Ukraine is looking forward to. We ask you, as a woman, as a mother, as a person who has devoted many years to this process to ban the game business in the country. Let us now join forces and not allow the casino and the world’s mafia to return to our country. We're not going to vote for this, and we're going to show it to all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u27	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. No, no, Natalia Yuriovna, thank you, thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine, Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich Alexander Anatolyevich, will you not report from the alternative bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, good day to you all. Once again, I would like to ask you to support a bill that was actually drafted with four or even five versions of the bill of play, which was considered by the financial committee of Parliament. I think that those versions that have already been considered last, four versions of the bill, are very similar and similar, and they all have signs of the legalization of the gaming business itself. Because we've fulfilled what we promised before the election campaign, namely, we've closed the street from the "black" playrooms, we've established a strict responsibility for running an illegal gaming business as a serious criminal offence, from six years of punishment and willlessness, which I think will be very important to the security guards from those salons that, even today, despite the President's decision and the actions of the law enforcement agencies, continue to work and run customers off the street. The bill is balanced, it allows, after its adoption in the first reading, to correct it according to the wishes of the market participants and so that the gambling business is exactly a filler of the state budget, not a filler of the pockets of criminal "threaters". And most of all, we've created preconditions for investment in this sector and investment in our nation's benefit. The only thing that bothers me in this situation is that the situation that has arisen with Prime Minister Honcharuk, his position on power and the voters, 73 percent who voted in favour of the President of Ukraine, his attitude towards the President and his understanding of the events and the situation in the economy, that the authorized authority for the management of the casino business will be established by the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. The word is given to Darius Artemovna Volodyni, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head. Your opinion is proposed by Bill 2285-10 on regulation of the activities and conduct of gambling. We've all been watching for 10 years, despite all the bans, this business is flourishing and continues to fill its pockets, so it's very sad to hear such things that it seems that the ban did not work and there was no business in the country. It's not working. In the country, there are thousands of ugly MAFs with gaming machines at every turn that are actually accessible to everyone, regardless of age or wealth, who have filled the facades of our beautiful cities and small towns with their bright displays. In our bill, which we developed with my assistants last December, in December, we proposed placing the casino exclusively in five-star hotels, because we think that this is exactly what might cause an increase in investment appeal in our country. In addition, we suggested that bookmakers get rid of the disgraceful visualization that has led to the development of mania in our citizens. As for the lottery, it was suggested that the work of so - called VLT machines should be excluded and that it should go to the classical kind of lottery in paper form. With regard to slot machines, we all know that today, according to some estimates, there are more than 1,000 gaming halls in Kiev alone. We suggested that only 780 remain throughout the country. My bill was designed not to favour anyone, but to benefit the country and protect our citizens. This bill is very important to our country so that we can finally regulate this area and ensure security for our country. I ask all present today to take a responsible position on this vote and to understand what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Taras Petrovich Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u32	Your Honor, Your Honor, I ask everyone to support this bill. I am currently co-authoring one of the bills, working with a working group, and I believe that legalization of the game business in Ukraine is necessary. She's been in the shadows for 10 years. Unknown persons, or celebrities, received profits. At this point in time, it's going to take money for the state to get it, and our citizens need to understand what crazyomania is. Ludomania should be fixed as a term at the legislative level, and the state needs to develop a system of social guarantees for such persons. Once again, I ask you to support this bill and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Abdullin. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u34	I am now addressing the MPs, because it is up to you now that the fate of Ukraine is going to be a massively inclusive gaming business or parliament today, once and for all, to put a stop to this, I don't exaggerate, plague not to run into our country. I was the Prime Minister, who, also because of the government's decision, and because of Parliament's decision, banned the gaming business that was in every yard at the time. Why was it forbidden? Because Ludomania has virtually captured Ukraine. The disease that led people to suicide, which led people to madness, to the loss of their last copies, to the destruction of their families, to the loss of their children’s parents, has simply reached a critical mark. And now you want to bring this trouble back to Ukraine. Notice, for example, that since January 1, 2008, countries like Germany in Europe have even banned online games, and we are now launching this plague in Europe's poorest country. Just think: the game business is one of the most profitable. The law you want to adopt will again allow you to set up a playground at each school in each yard. And that means that if you want 4 billion dollars in the budget, Ukraine has to lose 40 billion dollars in the poorest country. What are you doing? Stop and do not allow people to make money in distress, to destroy their mentality, health, and life. Our faction will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u35	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, you are now thinking of different things in the hall. Someone's busy, and they're deciding, really, the fate of the country. The fate of the country. A country that will raise its young. A country that will protect its pensioners today. Parliament, which will unite its efforts to really raise pensions, support the economy, support the agricultural and industrial complex today. But it will be a parliament that will enter the history of Ukraine as MPs who themselves have returned the gaming business to Ukraine, legalized the casino and the "one-armed bandits." Dear colleagues, I'm sure many of you have not received money for this vote. I also hope that many of you understand very well that returning vices to our country is a great sin. And we don't have to do that. They don't cost money that might get a budget for millions of people to get hurt. And they're going to be affected, first of all, by people who are still in very difficult social conditions. These are the people who will follow the last hope for slot machines and casinos. The entire civilian world has refused, turned down this phenomenon. Why are we creating a Third World country today? We ask you not to vote for the gaming business to return to Ukraine. Do everything you can to eradicate this phenomenon and keep the illegal business in the country closed once and for all. Let's not vote for it, let's not go back to the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u37	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u39	Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko Dear colleagues, after that, with Nina Petrovn Yuzanin's motives, and then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote and invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Galina Ivanovni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainians! When we consider this bill, first of all, we need to ask ourselves: whose interests it is, who is at the center, and what is the purpose of this law. The Voice faction has always talked about two superfluous things that are our priority. The first is that at the center of any action or laws should be the interests of a person, a Ukrainian. And the second is the strong institutions that have to provide for all of this. So, are there human interests at the heart of this law? No, it's not. Because we already know that every day the number of lunatics is rising, families are falling apart, people are losing the last one. Was it not possible to keep the word, to be consistent, and, as the President had previously stated, to ensure such activity only in five - star hotels? Why do we continue to see the possibility of placing slot machines in three-four-star hotels with a 25-digit library, for example in cities like Lviv? This is in the future in any hostel you can make slot machines. It's about institutions. Really. We know that this business has been banned for 10 years. And did the law enforcement authorities not go out and see what was going on in every corner? So it turns out that they can be capable. And we need to show how Parliament, the Supreme Council, we have, we can be a strong institution and we can provide quality law where the interests of a person and a citizen - Ukrainian - will be at the centre. And finally, let me just say that we're not voting for the law in this way because it doesn't create it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u41	No, unfortunately, no. For reasons like Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Then we go to the vote. Please invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, we have, on a number of occasions, a huge deception that is once again enshrined in these laws that we are considering. Because the biggest problem is slot machines. So as for slot machines, they stay on the streets, because the two areas that the law now lists where slot machines can be placed are in the halls of slot machines that can be located in the area of buildings that have three, four, five stars. So what you're seeing right now is in the streets of Kiev, where there's a nice hotel, in front of this hotel, behind this hotel, there's going to be the same buildings that are going to be all those gaming facilities that you have, or temporarily closed up, that are going to move again. Exceptional corruption in this law. What kind of five stars are there to place a casino with a library of more than 150 numbers? Who's this made for? Who gets the money for that? You see, all the chapters are filled with purely corruption, and that's what our people are going to suffer from. Do you want to take money from the rich in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u43	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, the faction is recorded: two in, two in, and two in, against. Regrettably, if factions have failed, there are also MP groups that have failed to register, such as the Rules. Dear colleagues, let us proceed to the vote, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act on State regulation of organization and gambling (registration number 2285-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:58]] For 260 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 9, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 5. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical differences in tax legislation (registration No. 1209-1). Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two bills have finally been passed for your consideration today. Bills are related to each other, which we call "anti-offshore laws." The first bill we're considering is 1209-1: making changes to others than the Tax Code, laws. And the second bill is the basic bill 1210. What are we doing with these bills? We do things with you for the Ukrainian business, for the Ukrainian state and for the Ukrainian society very useful, very right and very timely things. You and I are launching an accelerated depreciation -- something that we've been asked to do for so long. We're increasing the cost of the major assets from 6,000 dollars to 20,000 dollars. You and I are increasing the limit for not counting tax differences from 20 million to 40 million. Finally, we enter, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the responsibility of the state, the real responsibility, in the form of real fines or damages to the payer, before the taxpayer in the event of a violation of his rights. We impose the blame as a prerequisite for attracting a payer to commit certain tax offences. We're greatly improving the payer's electronic office and electronic communication between the taxpayer and the controlling authority. In addition, the bill contains a whole set of norms that relate to the implementation of our legislation of anti-BEPS rules and rules on controlled foreign companies. These rules will not allow large businesses and those whom we call oligarchs to transport in the future, to move profits received in Ukraine abroad, to avoid taxation in the warring state. These are effective standards aimed at resisting the avoidance of big business taxation and creating the same conditions that operate in the entire civilized world and in our state. I'm asking you to support this Bill 1209-1 as a whole, in the second reading and in general, taking into account technical legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u45	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion of this bill. It's on the books. Amendment number one, People's Deputy Froll. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number two, national deputy Stefanchuk. Don't insist. Amendment number three, national MP. Amendment number 5, I'm sorry, National Deputy Vasilchenko. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 18, People's Deputy Froll. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 21, People's Deputy Froll. Don't insist. Amendment number 27, National Deputy Babenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 29, People's Deputy Ironborn. Don't insist. Amendment number 30, national MP Marousek. Are you insisting? I'm sorry, 27th. Yes! Please give me the Zablotsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of drafting this bill, we have found that it would be worth noting that subsidies can be given to the producers of egg powder. As you know, there are certain grants that are provided for us, which were pretty scandalous, they paid proportionally for VAT and ended up in the biggest agroholdings. In fact, in the process of drafting this bill, we talked about taking this bill into account in the committee. All in favor, but because of some technical mistakes, we failed. I would very much like to know that Mr. Danilo also supports us to take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u47	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u48	The committee's decision was taken to reject, but, really, my position is to support this amendment. This will lead to the economy of the budget and at this stage will be the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to accept the 27th amendment. There's a committee position to reject. There's a committee head's position that he doesn't mind. In this regard, I ask you to vote. [[11:08:37]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 30, national MP Marousak. Don't insist. Amendment number 31, National Deputy of the South. Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Don't insist. Amendment number 32, national deputy Tarasov. Don't insist. Amendment number 33, national MP Marousiak. Don't insist. Amendment 34, National Deputy of the South. Don't insist. Amendment 35, national deputy Tarasov. Don't insist. Guys, does anyone really insist on what they're doing? People's MP, Yuzanin. And who? I can't see. And Ruslan Petrovich, yes. Please tell me, are you insisting on everyone or on one? You'll have one minute. Please give me one minute, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. And then Mrs. Jujanina and I. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished reporter. I'm just reminding you that when we discussed this issue in the first reading, I pointed out that the committee wants to make changes to the Law on the Judicial Assembly in fact. And then both the chairman of the committee and the representative said that, really, as much as the question is questionable, we're willing to isolate him from this bill and work separately. Moreover, we have agreed on a professional committee that we are preparing a serious, extensive, comprehensive law concerning the judicial congregation. Now you're taking one piece off, and that's going to affect, including the balance sheet of the court, which I'm going to remind you of, including being one of the IMF's beacons. In view of these circumstances, somehow my amendment of 107 and 108 is rejected, even though we agreed that we were removing it from here and we were working separately. Because if we're going to rip down other people's laws by any other law in the Transitional Situations, then we're going to go to each committee for their own consideration, considering the subject of knowing other committees, making decisions. That's not right. Please accept this kind of logic and remove the judicial congregation from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u51	It's a 107 and 108, right? Danilo Aleksandrovich, 107th and 108th, in the case of the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we are not in the judicial congregation. We're just bringing that system of court-martialing into line with the logic of it. This is about bringing the court to court in the cassation and appeal institutions -- a completely balanced and correct decision. Please support, and the amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u53	Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u54	What do you mean, it's not our law? These are compulsory payments. These are mandatory payments, how is this not our law?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u55	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, you will insist on the placement. On 107th. Then we'll get to her, and I remember putting her up. Still Nina Petrovna, yes, you insist? Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u56	Let's start with 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u57	Yeah, then just a minute. More than Nina Petrovna, anyone else will insist? I remember 107th Ruslan Petrovich. Nobody. Then we'll start with 47, right? Please, Nina Petrovna, 47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, much has been said in the presentation, but most of this applies to the next bill. This bill allegedly introduces technical changes to over 60 laws in force. So be careful because it's all mixed up here. I want to report to you, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, and to all the deputies, I do not understand where this Supreme Council came from with such a global violation of the Rules: a new subject of the legislative initiative, such as the Committee, appears, and he amends articles that were not in the first reading. And who is this, the committee, I didn't get it, and I didn't get the answer. So I want all the amendments made by the non-existent subject of the legislative initiative to be removed from this draft law, because they are clearly not amended by the urgency of the amendment, which is not clear. I'm stressing that this is either some action at all outside of legislation, or corruption. I don't want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Danilo Aleksandrovich, this question went 47 ways. Forty-seven lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, about the committee's amendments. Article 15, part three, of the Committees Act, allows the committee to amend the bill. We're using this rule as we used all the previous summonses. So let's stick to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u61	Nina Petrovna, do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. Nina Petrova's next revision. What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u62	We can go to 74, but you're lying. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u63	Please 74 amendments, Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u64	There is such a right on the committee to correct just a few words, not to introduce whole chapters that you do. No committee has abused such things. This is your first time. So I urge you to delete all the amendments. With regard to the 74 amendments, please tell us that since 01.07.2020, the law that we have allowed to import alcohol to all operators licensed for wholesale trade has entered into force. I then insisted that to make it clear that the alcohol industry that you're going to sell out would not be needed by anyone. If you allow everyone to import less than twice as much alcohol into Ukraine, you will kill the alcohol industry as such, and all the privatization you will make will not go to it. You're doing this specifically under one manufacturer. Also, the corrupt norm that's been passed in the past law, I'm trying to correct it, and I want everyone to listen and listen to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u65	Thank you. You insist, Nina Petrovna, don't you? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u66	The Economic Policy Committee considered the alcohol bill. There were certain political decisions made regarding the future of the alcohol industry. We did not interfere with these decisions, and that is why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, the 74th National MP of Southern Nina Petrovna is in favor of the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Regulation 76. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, when speaking, Knyazevitch asked questions about the court congregation, for which the tax committee had entered, you said it was appropriate. And now that I'm talking about an amendment to the import of alcohol, you're saying that another committee is looking at it. 60 laws in this draft law that are not our own, and we make changes to them. Thus, this amendment also applies. Please, let's get out of here! What kind of political decision? There are thousands of people who are being dumped on the street if alcohol activity is not needed in Ukraine. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 We know these lobbyists. Please just make sure that people are not on the street. These will be the new unemployed who will come with State aid, just impossible. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u69	Yes, thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u70	Nina Petrovna, there was a discussion, you took part in this debate at the Committee on Economic Policy. Another position was supported, and another decision was supported. We cannot review this decision in our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u71	Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Vote number 76 of Southerne’s national deputy, Nina Petrovna, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:44]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've moved to law school, if no one has ever shown a wish, 107 of Ruslan Petrovich's rights. You've already reported it, we can put it to a vote right now. The committee's position hasn't changed, has it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u72	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u73	There's a committee proposal to reject. Dear colleagues, there is a vote of 107 people's deputies, Knazevic Ruslan Petrovic. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:25]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we seem to have gone through all the adjustments, right? Yeah, we've gone through every turn, no one's insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical differences in tax legislation (registration No. 1209-1). Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:34]] For 256 Decision taken. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 2, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 18, "The Trust" – 14, "the Non-Factional" – 5. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Tax Administration, the Elimination of Technical and Logical Differences in Tax Law (Registration No. 1210). Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u75	First of all, colleagues, thank you for supporting Bill 1209-1. It's the right decision we've all made. The 1210 bill is bigger. It included 2,219 rights, of which 1,174 are counted, and 1,045 are rejected. The bill is designed for the development and preservation of capital in Ukraine in the way I said it. This is a significant improvement in corporate income tax regulations. A new model of financial responsibility is being introduced, and a payer’s guilt becomes a mandatory element of financial wrongdoing. A list of circumstances have been introduced to mitigate the taxpayer’s responsibility and relieve him of his responsibility. An effective mechanism is established for the State’s responsibility for illegal tax offences. A motivational part of the tax notice is being introduced to let the taxpayer know what he's in charge of, and not how it is now, the court has actually replaced itself with the controlling authority when considering the payer's complaint. There is an update of the missed administrative indictment period – within six months of the end date. Excluding the basis for a documentary non-planned examination of criminal conduct is what taxpayers have unfortunately abused in tax-paying checks. The electronic interaction of a tax payer with a controlling authority has been improved and the rules for regulating the electronic office of the taxpayer have been improved. Corrections that were in the first reading are excluded from the rent of gas. There's a 50 percent increase in iron ore tax, I mean the rate, we left the base the way it was. The arrangement for the payment of forest rents, the introduction of taxation on tobacco liquids, liquid raw materials for tobacco products, and higher rates of excise duty on tobacco have been simplified. Following a review of the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt a second reading and generally as a law with appropriate technical and legal processing. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I know that many of you will not insist on law enforcement. I had the opportunity to communicate with the national deputies during the past days when not all the national deputies were in the hall. Let's, if you don't mind, follow logic so I can see those national MPs who insist. If you don't mind, I'm just going to have to give every national MP the orders he insists on. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, how many rights do you have, about ten, right? Again, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u77	I've got after 500, the ones I insist on, there's others there that we used to serve in co-authorship with Lashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u78	Then about 10 right hand Andri Ivanovich Nikolayenko, right? Let me give you my word. Don't you insist? Later. Belkova Olga. Two minutes, right, Olga Valentine's Day?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, a respected colleague of the committee, I also have many rights, perhaps the greatest. So my proposition is you're going to give time to the end, I'm going to sum it up, but a couple of bars, literally five there, I'm going to put them in anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u80	Now, let's tell you what you're insisting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u81	The first one is 127th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u82	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u83	Do you want to talk right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u84	I think it's if. Just so we don't go all over the text, we don't read every amendment that the authors won't insist on. It's white then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Thank you, then. Dear Mr. Head, colleagues! It's a very complicated bill, and there are, in fact, many norms that are ambiguously perceived by society. However, there's something and something that we've managed to make more or less positive. And with my colleague Getmantz, we've filed a law enforcement system that deals with accelerated amortization of essentials. I hope that there will be a very positive, business-friendly response to this step. However, there is one point where we have not agreed on our position with Mr. Getmance. On the 127th right, I propose to allow the business accelerant accelerant at a basic cost of 25,000 dollars, and now at a current rate of 20,000 dollars. Well, there are five thousand bracelets for this important body, and for business, that's a lot. Please support my revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u86	Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we have considered this issue separately on the committee, even after working in the working groups. In fact, five thousand dollars is probably not the amount to be traded for. But I'm convinced that the rules of the Tax Code are not commercial at all. We got from the government, from the Ministry of Finance, calculations that confirm that the increase in value from 6,000 to 20 is justified. So I'm convinced that there's no reason to look away. We rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Olga Volodymyrna, will you no longer insist on law enforcement? No, come on. Well, we're just either going to get a table then, or let's go straight back to the session before we're done with the agenda, or let's do it each. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are we moving on? Okay. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Frolov insists on editing? No, it's not. Tarasenko? Bondarev. Can you please tell me how many revisions you're going to insist on? All of them? Okay. 14th Amendment, Bondarev. The first one is Frolov. You're not Frolow. Yes, Constantine Anatolyovich, 14th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u89	I would like to express my position at all with regard to the committee's consideration of all the rights that I have been filing over the last three months. I was never invited to a committee meeting, nor did they accept any of my rights at all. In fact, consideration of all rights takes place formally and narrows down the rights of national deputies. It's on this committee. There's no such thing on other committees. As far as I'm concerned, all the amendments in general are aimed at halting the discrimination of taxpayers, which is today by the controlling authorities. There's a venegret that's in this law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Amendment 14 of National Deputy Bondarev, put to the vote. Please identify and vote. It's not supported by the committee. [[11:31:51]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 15, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u91	This law changes the time frame for the establishment and cancellation of local taxes, which is obviously to be governed by the Budget Code rather than the Tax Code. Nevertheless, I suggested that we address this issue within the framework of the Budget Code, not the Tax Code. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u92	I'm betting on confirmation of the bill number 15 of the national MP Bondarev. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:43]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, are you not insisting on your actions? Please turn on Vasilchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u93	I have a lot of rights here, but I'm going to insist on one that after 2000, and please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u94	What's the readjustment? But maybe I'll give you two minutes now, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u95	No, no, we're going over the table. Let's, when we get in line, then please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u96	Well, then let's not take the time. Thank you. 24th, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I've done it a hundred times, I'm going to do it 15 times, it's good news for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u98	Thank you, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u99	And first of all, what I want to say is that over the last eight years, for all citizens and all businesses to hear, this is the very failed law, this is the very fiscal law that you can only imagine. And I urge everyone, if anyone else thinks about how to survive the business in Ukraine and how to develop the economy in Ukraine, to pay attention now to all the points that are being discussed and to realize what we are going to do with this law. I want to say that a large number of amendments have been taken into account by the committee, but the global changes that hit business are unaccounted for. And that's why I'm going to insist on all those that are key to me, and for business as well. This amendment is not to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, please tell me, or maybe you can name the 15 rights there, or the 10 rights on which to stop.? If you can, just give me a list. 46th, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u101	Feel me? Okay. This law unwarrantedly narrows down the qualifications of large taxpayers. Article 14, paragraph 14, proposes to replace the qualification of a large taxpayer as a person who, as a result of the four quarters, paid taxes and customs payments equivalent to 1 million euros — 26 million dollars on the day of the bill — to the equivalent of one and a half million euros, and the qualification of a large payer who paid 500 thousand euros without taking into account customs payments. As a result of this proposal, there is no tax control over them. So the principle of tax targeting, which is particularly important for fiscal authorities to be subject to large payers, not medium-sized or small companies, and self-employed persons will also be highly devalued. On the other hand, the number of VAT payers who are automatically compensated under the code will decrease considerably. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u102	Thank you. 46 Committee revisions are not included. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:14]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Number 47, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u103	In most cases, contrary to the rules, the quality of dividend payments is expanded. Regrettably, the 2010 Bill not only gives effect to paragraph 141.4 – 15 per cent for lawyers but for owners – 25 per cent and more for capital – 5 per cent, and paragraph 167.5. 2, where there are 5 percent for the physiosibs, but it also expands the dividends themselves. So it's unacceptable, and I'm still asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the vote is passed by 47 national deputies, Bondarev. The committee suggests that it be rejected, so please identify and vote. [[11:37:22]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 49, the People's Deputy of Sphenov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 50th, Bondarev. Please, National Deputy Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u105	This law continues with separate anti-BEPS rules, which are subject to the tax systems of case law of Anglo-Saxon, U.S. law, Great Britain and not continental law of the EU-Ukraine, in particular as regards the definition of the signs of thin capitalisation and transfer pricing, the bill's rules on this issue are proposed in a bad translation from other languages to Ukrainian, this is already a trend. Regrettably, standards of linguistic correction are unlikely to help, since they are about the essence of standards rather than the style of their publication. That's why I proposed this amendment. Sadly, though, she was not counted. Please put my vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, there is a vote of 50 national MP Bondarev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:43]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 51, Andrijevic's national deputy. Don't insist. The next one is Iron. Don't insist. The next is 54th, the national MP of Tarasov. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Okay. The Martian doesn't insist. 57th, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, why should this rule be transposed and abandoned in this law, please tell me if it is impossible to change the position of the payer? This was to be done in November, December. Now all the big payers are looking for a new place or an old one, so you can't change the criteria. I support previous colleagues who talk about the invariability of the criteria to large taxpayers. I just want to draw your attention: The state tax office is not under control today, there is no manager there. Please, all the standards that some department heads have imposed on you there, be careful with them, because there is no strategy in the tax service, and we're putting some of the standards under the field into the law right now. Let's figure out first what's going on with the offices of the big taxpayers, Odessa, so this is a great example. And sort it out in the end. to enter this system at all: whether we create a new tax service, whether the new returns old, you are critical, corrupt schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u108	You insist, don't you, Nina Petrovna? Vote number 57 of the national MP of Southanina is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:42]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 61, National Deputy Bondarev. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u109	Bill 1210 introduces a system of consolidation of national and international profits of jurosib, which is only for the U.S. tax system. Nevertheless, I suggested that we focus on the tax system associated with the Association with the EU. And in order to figure out where we're going in general, you really need to figure out who's in charge of tax and whether there's a corruption scheme for a new tax ruling or not. Because we're seeing from the media that we already have new bribe managers again, and we're spreading information that nothing has changed. And everyone who's under tax is feeling it, bribes continue to be shut down from the declaration system at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u110	Thank you. It's happening. Would you like to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Bondarev, we invite you to the committee to discuss the rights to any bill. If you'd come once, you'd see that we're very democratic, and we're counting the fines. Let's say of these lines that you gave, 5 we counted whether they were represented or not. And now you're substantiating the rights by substantiating the other rights. Look, please, this is not about what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u112	This is the 61th National Deputy Bondarev's vote. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:59]] For the 180. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u113	63rd, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Getmants, once again, I say that this bill is inconvenient and there is no discussion on your committee. I would be happy to participate in the discussion on my rights, but at the same time, my committee is being held. And if I don't go there, by the law you passed, I'll be fined and not paid my salary. So if you were planning your work on time and in advance informing the MPs about the holding, the timing and the venue of your committee, I would be happy to take part in it. Thank you. I'm still asking you to put my bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u115	Please accept the vote of 63 national deputies, Bondarev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:19]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 64, National Deputy of the South. Don't insist, yes, I see. The next issue is 65, the Mamka People's Deputy. Don't insist. 69th National MP Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u116	Pottery, Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, I will surely say that I have enough rights. I'm going to talk about this law itself, which is against the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce. Let's go first. I've got 69. So that's exactly what this is about. The introduction of the bill compares a number of operations to the actual payment of dividends with the payment and payment of advances, and the payment of non-resident income tax on such payments actually on the basis of the taxpayer's expenses. In view of the possibility of extensive treatment of the regulations, high - probability taxpayers will be faced with an adjustment to the income tax for the companies involved in the advance payment. Yes, on a non-resident's fee for services in excess of the amount that corresponds to the out-of-hand principle, that's the amount. Adjustments from income tax, non-resident income tax and value added tax will be applied. This is wrong, and I'm asking you to consider my revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u117	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hotcharenko, for the large number of rights, for actually a large number of amendments to our bill. Your amendments are aimed at removing from the text the laws of those institutions that belong to the tax systems of civilized countries in the world. First, the anti-BEPS rules and controlled foreign companies, they torpedo these norms. We disagreed with these rights because we believe that civilised rules aimed at countering tax evasion are appropriate. That's why we rejected them, including the amendment you're talking about -- constructive dividends -- we accepted constructive dividends as the norm of the Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u119	Thank you. It's 69 votes in favour, national MP Hotcharyenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:17]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the readjustment. The factions? Let's see the factions. By the way, there's this button on the monitors, you can also see it. Djitalization, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, come on. Next line is number 73, the People's Deputy of Gerega. Don't insist. Edit the number. People's Deputy Greeb, 81st. You said you'd be back later, didn't you? Thank you. Edit 83, National Deputy Bondarev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Getmants, if you were to give a comparative table in advance that you could work with, I really might not have made any mistakes in the title of the right. Once again, I insist that we normalize our work on your committee. Because this work cannot be called a discussion. Inform the deputies in advance of the seat and time of the committee, as well as the relevant information. I insist that my vote be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u121	There is 83 votes in favour, National Deputy Bondarev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:08]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The next one is 84th, National Deputy Bondarev. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u122	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u124	This law unduly changes the size of fines and the qualifications of offences, while at the same time applying such indicators as an untaxed minimum, a minimum of living for a working person, a minimum wage, and fixed amounts. This does not correspond to the indicators used in KUPAP and KPC. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u125	Thank you. But, I see, this is an intellectual property regulation. But, nevertheless, the honourable colleagues hold the vote of 84 members of the People’s Chamber of Bondarieva, and the committee rejects it. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:12]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The next issue is 87, People's Deputy Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Of course, I understand that we have a Prime Minister for all of Ukraine who has declared himself a proponent in the economy, and I hope that maybe we have a head of the Tax Committee not a propane. So I don't really understand what he meant when he was talking about civilized countries. I want to say again, the European Business Association strongly opposes this bill, the American Chamber of Commerce v. These are probably not civilized countries, according to Mr. Getmantsev. Of course, they are far from Ukraine with our President in the mist and propane Prime Minister. In fact, it's the right thing to do. 87th: the norm needs further processing, because there is no mechanism for calculating such revenue, no mechanism for influencing non-residents in order to provide supporting documents. So please put my vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u127	Thank you. It is the vote of 87 national MP Hotcharenko, and the committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:29]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The next issue is National Deputy Bondarev, 101.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Hetmantsev, good news: I will speak on this law and no longer insist on my rights. But I wanted you to hear me, first of all, in this session room, and also in the committees, there should be a discussion, a professional, professional discussion. In order to do so, MPs need to be provided with relevant information, not only to the deputies who are members of your committee. If this discussion takes place, there will be no misunderstandings in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Thank you very much. 124th, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Look, I just want all the viewers to see this. Look, you see, this is a thousand pages of right, 269,000 words. They were handed out to us, actually sent out the other day, handed out this morning. The average rate of adult reading is 120-160 words per minute. Well, it's not Milovanov, he's got less, of course, he's told the whole country he's an asshole, I'm not talking about him. In other people who are healthy, this is the pace. So, when these people read these laws, and the national MPs come to the session room to vote here, please tell me how you can prepare for today's session? You say you've stopped the turbine. But you've already turned on some stupid wrinkle, because it's just not real. I insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u131	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? 124 revisions by the committee have been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:09]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The next one is Belkova, 155th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I have a series of rights that are logically related to each other -- 155ths, 159ths, 882nds. I'm asking you two minutes literally, that's a very important question. I think a lot of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u133	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u134	Many of you have seen commercials from Georgian companies that offer Ukrainians very easily, simply and without hindrance to invest in real estate in Georgia. Why do Georgia, Turkey, Spain, Italy continue to do so? Because developing countries need investment in real estate, they need capital. To date, all these people are paying taxes in the proper order, they are tax agents. But the money of this bill, in my opinion, creates a major obstacle: non-residents who will own passive assets in Ukraine will have to create certain tax residences, register. This means that fewer investors will be interested in investing in Ukraine. I don't even expect to get votes right now, I hope to get an understanding of the committee's head and Minfin's. Djitalization was mentioned today. So maybe you could at least make an online enrollment of such non-residents? Why create obstacles to our country’s expansion? I support the fact that we have to pay taxes, but I stand firm against them. Registration of offices for whatever purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting these rights? Thank you. The next one is 162. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u136	I would like to continue my opinion and say, everyone should understand clearly, Your Honor Chairman, I am addressing you, and this bill is being considered in violation of the requirements of Article 117 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, and I will quote it: "The draft, prepared for second or second reading, the conclusions of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be made available to the People's Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council." I mean, if we have one today, what one? - Sixteen, no later than January 6th, we were supposed to get everything. We got nothing, the committee meeting took place this week, and you're in violation of the Rules now. This is my request to the Head of the Supreme Council to violate the Rules of Procedure in the consideration of Bill 1210. And I insist on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Honcharenko, given the speed of your reading, I understand that you have very little time to study such a large array of letters. But we've been working on this bill for four months, and if you've been really oriented in these tables, you'd know how much we've taken into account the observations of both the American Chamber of Commerce and the European Business Association, which don't go all the way against this bill, it's not true. Your amendments are meant to remove the bill -- and I want to tell you -- from the bill to remove the standards that are aimed at eliminating the taxation of oligarchs. I am convinced that the very ones whom you are so eager to protect are few in the north of Atonement. So I would recommend that you still look at your changes again and maybe take them off the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u138	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 162 people's deputies, Hotcharyenka, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:49]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next line is 166, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Well, first of all, I am, Mr. Razumkov, asking for your response to my statement that the documents were not issued in 10 days, as required by article 117 of the Rules. That's the first one. And yet, after the end of my speech, I look forward to hearing your word on this question. The second is to the honourable lord of the committee. So I'm offering you along with me, please, ready to go and see who reads faster, measure IQ in general, and whatever, I'm ready to do it with you. Take with you, please, Milovanova, and take with you Prof. Prime Minister and President with fog in your head, according to Goncharuk: "And there is emptiness, Green and emptiness." I'm ready with you, with you, Milovanov and Pottery to sit down and measure the IQ. And then we'll actually look at who reads as quickly as possible and who understands what's going on. Thank you. And you, Mr. Razumkov, I ask you to respond to my request for violation of Rule 117 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u140	Now. Let us now vote on this amendment. 166 Tončarenko's right, not counted by the committee. Please vote and determine. [[12:00:26]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. There's a break until 12:30. Ask not to be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we begin our work. Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly, there are a few national MPs who will not insist on law enforcement from Fatherland. Nina Petrovna Yuzanin passed on the adjustments that must be emphasized. And the Voice passed on its revisions. Yeah? And other political groups and factions don't insist, because most of them. Mushroom. What's that? 1 thousand 800. Recorded, Grissom, 1820. And then we'll be able to go to the law and vote, sorry, not until the vote. If you don't mind, then I'll go through with the laws of the political forces, from the representatives. Is there a potcherenko in the hall? None. No, we're not on the table. I can now recalculate Alexi Alexiyovich's revisions. I'll count it now, if you don't mind: 181, Hotcharyenko, 208. I'll give Nina Petrovni my word if you don't mind. Then let's go to the other right. 187th Amendment, Nina Petrovn Jujanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I think we're making a mistake right now that a number of the functions assigned to the tax police are being passed on to this law. It's very confusing to me because I'm in business and I remember eight years ago when the tax police used the term "dealing target" effectively, and all the tests they did, they just spelled out the business of arbitrary interpretation of farm operations that are done by the operators. This amendment refers to the fact that the existing term in the Tax Code can only be used for transfer pricing, for chapter XXIX, where it should actually be and possibly be used. Why would it be possible for all taxpayers to leave taxes for a loving relationship with nonresidents? These may be small amounts, but they will be denied or questioned by the tax authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u143	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u144	Indeed, before the first reading, the "dealing goal" was distributed to the relationship between taxpayers and tax could reclassify their actions. We've narrowed the application of "business goal" to relationships with non-residents. As you know, TCO is predicted to be a fundamental category of TCOs, and so this category has already been applied in these relationships. So I think it's the right thing to do. We suggest we reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u145	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Nina Petrovna, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 187 people's deputies, the committee didn't take it into account. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:57]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment 744 of the People's Deputy. Wait, Alexy Alexiyovich, we agreed that we'd go through the national MPs, then we'd go back to your rights. I started off with your rights. You weren't in the hall. I'll be right back, don't worry. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 744.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u146	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, if you're saying that you want to use "participation" only for chapter XXIX, then you need to put your amendment 1490 on confirmation and reject it, because it just means that it's the financial differences you're proposing to apply to all the relationship between the payer and the non-resident. If you cancel this amendment, then what you're saying is what you're saying. As for the 744 revision. Please do not change the time limit for individual consultations. We always have payers in hot order. You're going to reduce it from 10. You're going to increase it from 10 days to 35. Please tell me, how can a payer wait for such a term? Do you have so many requests from taxpayers? Leave it as it is. This system has worked for years before you, to you, I emphasize, there have never been any malfunctions, and there have been no complications. What you're doing now is reducing the payer's right to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u147	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u148	As a result of the consultations held on the committee, including with you, we have refused to increase the deadlines for the response, to provide advice, and have only increased by five days the tax may extend the time limit for individual consultations. It's a normal compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u149	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 744 members of the people's parliament of the South, which is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:27]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment 1186 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, do you remember when I first read to you about novels that are now being introduced from some scientific work? So I got an update on the tax offence in 1186, and I got an expert study from the same professors who proposed the amendments. They exclusively criticized, along with the entire judicial system, all the amendments made by the honourable lord of the committee concerning this idea. Why are you entering the Tax Code into the definition of purely legal aspects that are not specifically examined by a simple auditor (verifier)? Why are you distorting the Tax Code if this is provided in other procedural codes that operate in our country? Please clean up and count. Exclude these sections that relate to the definition of tax offences and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u151	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u152	Thank you. In fact, we bring in a very useful thing. Today, the taxpayer is called to account without fault. That is, whether the taxpayer is guilty of the commission of his offence or not, on a formal basis, he will be drawn to financial responsibility by the entire composition of the tax offence. And that's not right. This is neither consistent with world practice nor with the logic of a civilized tax system. We're making our way forward. We're introducing a category of offences in tax matters. As a result, the taxpayer can be relieved of responsibility if there is no fault in his actions. It's not a decision the inspector will make. This is a decision that will be made by the head of the tax authority at the time of adoption of the PPR. Thank you. Decline the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u153	Thank you. The committee did not consider this amendment. I'm betting on a vote of 11,86 people's deputies of the South. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:06]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edited in 1789, the national deputy of Jujanina. Please turn on Nina Petrovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, you just heard an explanation from the committee head. It seems to me that every conscious person here and outside the hall who hears what's going to happen, what rights will be given to an unreformed tax authority, must now understand and come to terms. Do you understand what they said? The issue of the IPR will now be decided by the head of the tax authority. There's a violation, there's a non-payment of the tax, it's documented, but the head of the tax authority is going to determine whether it was the fault or not. But it's an exclusive function of the judiciary. And so the content of the amendment is one tenth of the draft law. This bill cannot be voted on in any way, it will destroy the tax system completely, and corruption will develop there to such an extent. Get rid of Odessa! That's what they're going to pay for Kyiv's money. Let's deal with this, and then we'll move on. You, by granting such rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u155	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u156	Well, I can repeat what we said. I believe that this is accepted by a very large number of experts that guilt in committing an offence is an essential sign of a civilized tax system. It's for the payer. That's why we're rejecting the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee does not count. I'm betting on a vote of 1789. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:20]] For-100 No decision taken, no correction counted. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Let's go to. What's the rest of it? 1789? And we just voted it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u158	Oh, I just couldn't get through it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u159	One minute, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u160	I'll be honest with you. Dear colleagues, in 1789 there were such fine details. In the corporate individuals who are in the general tax system, the possibility of including reconstruction, modernization and other improvements in the core funds has been reduced. I'm just going to focus on all the little details that strike at our average and small business, completely fiscalizing their actions. Dear colleagues, this is no time to take such harsh approaches right now. Perhaps one day we will prepare, and tax culture will emerge. Now we have to set the bet at 10 percent and get the business out of the shadows. Why do you now make decisions that may be right at some point, but not now that we have to liberalize the tax system? As for the implementation of the steps recommended to combat tax evasion, this is really the part in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u161	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. But we've already voted in favour of this amendment, so I'm just not going to put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, let's move to the right hand of the Potter. Are you going to insist on everyone last? Now, a minute. 181 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u162	Thank you. I'm going to remind everyone that the Head of the Supreme Council has never responded to Rule 117 of the Rules, which provides for 10 working days to consider this bill. As for 181 revisions. In the law that the guru wrote ours, I understand, a reasonable economic reason -- a reason that can only be available if the taxpayer intends to have an economic effect as a result of economic activity. I mean, I suggest we rule that out, because we're giving the tax inspector, in general, the tax inspector, to determine whether there's a reasonable economic reason for someone's activity or not. Tell me, please, what will this do besides corruption? Look, please, really, at Odessa, where the guidance assigned to the new authority tells us how much it has to do with Kiev, how much it has to do with the B.S.A., how much it has to do with the prosecution. That's how we give them fasting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u163	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 181 People's Deputies of Honcharenko. The committee is off-limits, please identify and vote. [[12:50:52]] Z-91 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 208 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u164	Thank you. Again, I remind you that the Head of the Supreme Council did not respond to a violation of the Rules, which I have already recalled for the tenth time. Now for this particular point. In sub-paragraph 14.1.265, the words "subjects who have committed a tax offence or a violation of other legislation whose enforcement is monitored." I propose to replace the words "tax payer in connection with breach of tax legislation". Otherwise, the purpose of making adjustments and how this might affect the enforcement of fines was not understood. Once again, I call your attention, an extremely important law, I understand that in some of the countries, as we have learned, even the highest leadership, "a very primitive view of economic processes" (I quote Potter). But let's at least show the Supreme Council some other level of economic understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u165	Thank you. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:16]] Z-87 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 218, potter's license.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u166	Thank you. Article 16.1.15 "Liabilities of the taxpayer. Ensure that officials (officers) and/or employees of the taxpayer are provided with an explanation to the supervisory authorities on matters relating to the subject matter of verification and their documentary confirmation." What is the purpose and purpose of this norm, explain to me? The payer still provides the controlling authorities with all the necessary information during the tests, and the purpose is not understood. And once again, I repeat, we're looking at this in violation of article 117 of the Supreme Council Rules, which predicted that this huge, this pile of documents was going to come in 10 days before we had to look at it. No 10 days passed, the committee only took place yesterday, and the matter was closed. And we're going to ask you this question right now, just because someone is itching, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u167	It's a vote of 298 people's deputies, Hotcharenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. 208th? 218th! Excuse me. [[12:53:54]] For-79
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u168	Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 298th, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u169	Third, you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u170	No, 298th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u171	Did you miss 223? I still have a 223. Well, let's talk about 298, please. So, article 21, "The responsibilities and responsibilities of the officials and officials of the supervisory bodies. The damage caused to the payer by the unlawful decision, action or omission of the controlling authority is compensated at the expense of the State budget provided for the financing of that body, irrespective of the entity’s guilt. ” I'm going to add the words "a crew or a service person," because it's very important that this rule can really be implemented, one of the few that are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u172	The 298th committee is off-limits, the Hotcharyenka law. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:06]] For-80 No decision taken, no correction counted. 312 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Once again, I am reminded of the Rules that have been violated, and the Chief of the Supreme Council has not yet responded. I'm waiting for an answer. I propose that article 21 be deleted and added to the following sentence: "The officer or official of the supervisory authority shall be responsible to the State in a two-fold manner for compensation paid from the budget due to improper decisions, actions or omissions of this official (service) person." I don’t understand why the official’s personal responsibility is taken away because of improper decisions, actions, or omissions. I propose leaving a valid norm, because it is of great practical importance, it compares to the rights of the payer, because the payer has a personal responsibility, as well as the service person of the controlling body. It's very important, it's for the protection of the business that you're so passionate about.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u174	Edit 312 is not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:28]] For-88 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, let's welcome the students from the city of Barva Chernigiv. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Do you mind, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u177	You have to listen, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u178	It's from the greeting procedure. 332 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u179	Thank you. I also welcome the Montenegrin schoolchildren! I hope that when they are the people's deputies, and one of them is the Head of the Supreme Council, they will not violate the Rules, as unfortunately this Supreme Council does, specifically paragraph 117, I remind him again. The answers have not yet been answered, or maybe it was encrypted in the greeting of the schoolchildren, I don't know. So now what I'm proposing. To replace the words "to another taxpayer," there, well, just to explain for a long time, there's no time, I'm just explaining the point. Only non-residents listed in sub-paragraph 39.2.1.1 can be recognized as controlled and this is expanding. That's why I'm asking you to consider my application.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u180	332 Committee revisions are not included. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:05]] For-86 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 636 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u181	Thank you. In sub-paragraph 43. 3 Article 43, the words “for 1095 days from the day of origin mistakenly and/or excessively paid sum or penny” are proposed to be deleted. Why? Such a restriction is unfair, for it is often the case when taxpayers become insolvent and, given the transfer of losses of the past years, continue to be insolvent for three years. Over the course of these three years, the authorities turn to the authorities for reimbursement, but the authorities ignore such appeals, and at the end of the three years, the courts have already denied the standard. This is the norm that beats business. I'm also paying attention to the audience because I realize that it's probably uninteresting to others, which means that there's no answer to all my corrections from the head of the Committee on Finance. I mean, just say what you want. I thought the Supreme Council was a place for discussion, but I understand that we already have a bit of a "lord" of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u182	Thank you. 636 revisions, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:32]] Z-77 Unfortunately, it's out of the question. 699 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u183	664th, Your Honor Chairman. 664th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u184	Counted, indicated by the committee. You don't know what you're up to?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u185	It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u186	Oh, part of it. Are you all right? — 1 Corinthians 15:
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u187	Did you take it all into account? I'm sorry, Mr. Head. Completely? Thank you, then let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u188	Oh, you don't even know your rights. Alexyyyovich, that's not fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u189	I looked, it was partly accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u190	699. But time goes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Thank you very much, and maybe you don't know my rights, and I'm telling you that the committee that did this work didn't even invite the right-holders to look at these rights. This is a very interesting question for you: the rules of procedure. And of course, I don't have time. I can only say one more thing is that now it's just about looking at the basic forms, and the midterm quarterly, annual and financial reporting is formed with additions and conclusions. So I've suggested that the paper I'm asking you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u192	Thank you. 699 revisions, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:57]] For-81 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 728 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u193	It is not a principle. We can move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u194	Thank you. 871.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u195	Exclusion 1 and 2 of article 53. 1 is discriminatory in relation to taxpayers who act according to the individual tax advice given to them. He's asking, why would I even get it? Because the payer will act on the advice or not, and he will still be called to account. It is proposed that paragraphs 1 and 2 be returned, which protects the taxpayer’s rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u196	Thank you. 871 committee corrections are not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:58]] For-83 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Alexiyyyovich, please tell me you're on every turn, maybe we'll do it. Everyone, right? Okay. 911. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u197	Thank you. Paragraph 3 of sub-paragraph 77.2 in the draft law is the word "and making changes to it," and I propose to exclude it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u198	The 9-1-1 committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:41]] For-80 911's off-limits. 80-yes. 819 law, potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u199	Did you mean 918?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u200	918, yes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u201	918. So the point is that it's not allowed more than once a quarter, these words are replaced by the words "not allowed." It is now stipulated by law that the schedule of checks is approved for 1 year. Its review should not take place during the year. That's why I'm proposing an editorial. I'm talking again. Dear friends, the point is that the business that gives jobs to people will be cated after this law. Do they understand all those national MPs who are not voting for this right now? Does he understand this direction of the Supreme Council, which deals with this law in violation of the Rule of Article 117? Once again, I call attention to the honourable presiding officer, article 117 of the Rules — 10 days. Let's count with you from yesterday to today it's been 10 days or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u202	Thank you. 918 revisions, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:03]] Z-85 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 925 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u203	Thank you. I'll explain where it came from. It's actually the same thing, to replace the word "quartal" with "year," because it's the same logic as in the previous one, because the graph is approved for a year -- a year -- and it's going to be published once at the end of the year, which is ahead of the year in which the tests are going to take place. Everything else is from the wicked one. But look what actually happened. From the time of Azar’s tax collection, these proposals lay in watchful drawers, and they did not know who to give them. Then finally they found those with emptiness in their heads, they put it in, fog, and now they are making the law of Ukraine out of it. The law of Ukraine! I'm just pointing out that you can't, you can't accept things like this, they're going to have serious economic consequences. And even the decline in manufacturing that we have today, it's going to get worse. Once this law is passed, the price of this law is the lost jobs of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u204	It's 925, Goncharenko. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:29]] For-79 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 930 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u205	Here's a specific example. I proposed a small standard for business support, a small one so that business would be informed about the planned check not in 10 days, as they wrote, but in 15. Tell me, is this any threat to the state? No, it's not. This only allows the taxpayer to prepare. Why the committee didn't count it, I don't understand. Why don't they vote again? I don't know. The simple norm is to give business more time to prepare for testing. What claims to this standard? Why is it not supported? Why any weakening? You called yourself a liberal. What kind of liberals are you, my friends? So first you're liberals, then you're socialists, and actually the standards that you're doing right now, you're just the kind of fiery gamblers that are just going to kill business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u206	It's 930, Goncharenko. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:49]] For-92 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 937 straight, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u207	Thank you. I want to thank the jury for voting for that amendment. Dear friends, as you've seen, good, correct correction, that's what the Presidium felt. Well, unfortunately, the main ones didn't tell everyone else, "Please support me," they said, "please be sure." I have a request for the verdict now to say, "Please support me," and then a good rule that just removes a certain burden from the taxpayer again, and I propose the words "that gives the controlling authority reasonable grounds to consider a violation" to replace because. Explain to me the logic of the term "reasonable grounds to consider a violation"? Why are we giving our taxpayers tax dollars, I'm not talking about everyone, but they're there, and the higher the pattern, the more they are, why are we giving them such an opportunity to tell me, please, just so that someone can earn another charter flight from the Indian Ocean?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u208	Row 937, Goncharenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:15.]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 951, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u209	Unprinciple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u210	959th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u211	It's very important. This rule does not determine the maximum limit period to be checked, and it actually legalizes the re-documentation of taxpayers. I'm calling your attention again. Such checks may require documents that have long been completed and destroyed by the supervisory authorities. That is, all the documents of the taxpayer must be kept forever. Once again, forever. What are you forcing the business to do? Forever since the start of the business, it's totally unfounded and pointless, because the period has already been checked by the tax authority. Once again, my friends, if you don't support this right now, tomorrow all businesses will have to keep all the documentation forever. What's so stupid about taking it? You want a state in a smartphone, not a state that doesn't have any forests, because they've all been cut down to keep someone who doesn't need a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u212	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u213	Dear Alexiyyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Alexiyyovich, you suggest we clean up. Let's not blow up the myths around that amendment that says otherwise. This is an additional basis for checking if documents are received from a foreign country, not for the life expectancy of keeping documents or something else. Let's call things our names. We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u214	Thank you. 959 correct. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:27]] For the 110. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ninety-nine one, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u215	I gave you the exact information. Unfortunately, the chairman of the committee gave false information about what seemed to be extra. I say again, you can come back and check the period already checked. Do you understand that? Dear "ministers of the people," you will return home this day, you will meet with business leaders, business leaders. How will you look them in the eye? Here you are. My revision suggests the following simple things: reduce the length of exit checks, reduce them. Instead of 35 working days, 25. Instead of 15 - 5. Instead of 25 - 15. Suitable for different levels of taxpayers. Tell me, why check the taxpayer for 35 working days? You know, it's more than a month, actually for two months -- 35 working days, blocking a normal business. Why do you do things like that? Why don't you just explain it to me? You don't give a shit about that, do you?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u216	991 law, national deputy Alexia Hotcharenko. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:55]] For-119 The decision is not taken. It's 1002.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u217	There's one chance, dear friends, I'm calling your attention again. You're actually allowing a month to block businesses from doing these checks. I propose once more: instead of 30 working days, do 10 instead of 3, instead of 6 - 1, instead of 25 respectively. It is clear that the enterprise must work, pay taxes to the State, pay wages to the people. Not sit around for months to explain something to the controlling authorities that will ask: You have a reasonable purpose in your economic activity or are not wise, why you do it, and not do it. What are we doing in North Korea in our country? What are we building, Kim Chen Guthmanns?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u218	It's 1002. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:07]] For 118 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1014, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u219	Once again, I'm calling your attention, the duration of the tests defined in article 80, they write, it shouldn't exceed 20 calendar days. I suggest 5, there's 5 too many days, 5 days' work. What 20 days? Why are you doing this? I don't know who to talk to anymore, because I can see that nobody cares about that in the session room. I understand that the Prime Minister is a proponent in the economy, I understand that the President has a "primitive understanding of economic processes" (I have quoted Potter just now). Listen, behind us is a 40 million-dollar country, thousands of businesses, well, these people who create those taxes that you only know how to distribute, taking out millions of wages, just to distribute these wages, well, someone has this money to earn, that you're killing this cow that gives another milk, Lord forgive me!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u220	Committee position, 1014 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, that's all that's been said before and before this, we're leaving with you the lines that are in the current version of the Tax Code. We're not increasing these terms, we're proposing to cut them. There's no reason to reduce it, all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u222	Do you insist on voting? Amendment 1014 by the committee is not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:52]] For 113 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Rule 1027, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u223	Thank you. You've just heard a phenomenal novel from the committee head: it turns out, the law is written just to make it worse. I thought we were adopting the law, changing it to make things better. And if we've already taken this law to reduce the time limits, because it's obvious to every businessman, many of you are businessmen themselves, you know what it is, these checks. And we're told by the committee head, we're leaving everything as it is, and we don't see any reason to shrink. A reason to help the business is not a reason for the head of the tax committee. Maybe this bill should have been given to the Committee on Freedom of Human Rights, if you'll excuse me, human rights, maybe that would have been more meaningful? Same thing that goes in my direction? The fact is that if a request for a copy of a document is violated, the controlling body should have more than 5 working days.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u224	I'll bet you 1027 on the vote. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:13]] For 116 The decision is not taken. 1030 straight, potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u225	Thank you. In increasing the time frame for stopping the documentary exit of the scheduled and non-planned examinations, what I have just mentioned, there should also be an increased deadline for requesting the person of the controlling authority to obtain copies of the documents. It's back to supporting business adjustment. Replace "no later than five working days" with "no later than 10 working days". Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u226	Edit 1030 Pottery, not counted by committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:03]] For 115 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1055, Pottery.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u227	Once again, Deputy Honcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing, wants more time in business to prepare to give an answer to the controlling, verifying authorities. I'm proposing "in 10 working days" instead of "in 15 working days." Because this will give the taxpayer a few days to prepare the relevant information. Let's go into business, not just fiscals. Now the whole country is looking at this review, the fiscals are sitting applauding, and what the real business thinks about it, you'll see it in the report, when we're going to have another fall over the third quarter. If there is no 40 percent increase in GDP in the five years you promised people, then you will say, ‘ And we don’t know why. ’ We need to make a slide for the President to explain that these slides are here, that's why business is falling.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u228	Amendment 1055. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:18]] For 101 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1062, line Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u229	Thank you. I, by the way, have for some time forgotten to remind the Head of the Supreme Council of article 117 of the Rules, which is brutally violated by this bill now. And now, specifically with regard to this amendment. So it's an increase. Well, it's about terms again. An increase in the time frame for the examination of the test materials by the Board for the examination of objections will allow both the controlling authority and the taxpayer to enter the process of direct consideration prepared. Again, it's a completely working, practical thing: give business time to prepare, give it time to explain the position, not just kill it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u230	1062, not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:23]] For-97 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1063.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u231	There are other terms that we can increase with you right now. The point is that the controlling authority is obliged to notify the taxpayer of the place and time of the examination of the verification materials. This message is sent to the taxpayer no later than. Now it's written - 4 working days, I suggest you do 6 working days. In general, more could be done. Well, at least six working days. This is another step to meet businesses so that they can work, not just take credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u232	Revision 1063 of the Committee is not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:18]] For 109 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1064.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u233	Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u234	1097.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u235	1097 is an extremely important amendment. It's about article 95, "Sales of property under tax." So I suggest you do. Now, as it was written, "The collection of funds and the sale of the property of the taxpayer takes place not earlier than 30 calendar days from the date on which such payment is made to the taxpayer." I'm proposing that we give a bigger business, a tax payer the opportunity to solve this problem, and instead of 30 days to do 45. Do you not see what this leads to? When this goes into the tax return, it's still coming true and everything's lost. Let's give the business a chance, not 30 days, but 45 days, to solve this issue, even though it's a small step to meet. Or 60, as in the current norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u236	Yes, 1097 is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:36]] For 101 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1106, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u237	By the way, do you know why he kept so modestly silent, well, as always, the head of the tax committee? Because the last right is now 60 days on tax. You cut it twice, you say you didn't make it worse. What did you do? You've cut it from 60 days to 30 days, you've made it twice as bad. This next amendment is essentially going, well, logic is the same thing. Depending on the month of the year, the evaluation period may vary by 28, 30 or 31 days. So it's suggested that we clearly define the term and not reduce it sharply, as we do now -- two months, once again, two months, you suggest -- one month. I don't even suggest leaving two as it was, I suggest you do at least 45 days is 1.5. Well, you. Why do you hate business like that? What are you doing? Look, it's just impossible! Who will pay taxes in this state?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u238	Line 1106, Goncharenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:00]] For-74. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Arachami, what? David Georgievich? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u239	Colleagues, colleagues, considering that most people insist on corrections, and the law is very important, we still have a lot of questions today, and I suggest we vote in favour of extending the working day until the day's order is exhausted. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u240	Procedural decision, we can. Alexeiyovich, you know the Rules, you're good at it. Yes, we can consider a procedural decision when considering matters, yes. Huh? Where's that? During the discussion, it's procedural. We cannot go on to other questions. Yes, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u241	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Supreme Council Rules clearly provide that when considering the bill, it cannot be broken by other ballots. So you can vote, if you want, on this issue after this bill has been considered. Please don't violate the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u242	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u243	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Now we're looking at a second reading of the bill. And the position of our faction is that any other vote that does not apply to this bill is possible only after the question has been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u244	Okay. Then we'll go through this bill, and we'll vote on the sequel. 1118.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u245	1117. 1117, Your Honor Chairman. I'm reporting 1117. The point is that there is an active regulation on this article: the frustration and the suspension of financial obligations or the taxpayer’s tax debt. For reasons that are not clear, she wants to change. I don't understand why, because that editorial that was, it's completely effective and it doesn't need work. So I'm just asking you to rule out the changes to this 100th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u246	118 committee corrections are out of the question. No, it's your 118th. That's 118th, yours, yeah. That's why I'm putting her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:58]] For-74. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1120, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u247	Yeah, 1120. So this is what this is all about. Well, that's understandable. I propose that paragraph 3 be supplemented by the following: "Decision on the Disposal of Money Liabilities or Tax Debt, as well as on the Transfer of Payments of Spent (Dependated) Amounts, if the amount of Predelayed Disposal (Deposal) of Money or Tax Debt has not been repaid, is accepted by the Manager, its Deputy or Authorized Person of the Central Executive Authority, which implements the State Tax Policy in agreement with the Central Executive Authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of the State Financial Policy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u248	1120 not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:08]] Z-87 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1144.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u249	So what's this all about? We're proposing a discriminatory extension of the grounds for stopping the countdown, namely: they just added anything. The period of limitation shall be stopped for any period during which the controlling authority is subject to the law. It is prohibited to conduct, or by a court decision, a check by a taxpayer or a taxpayer is prohibited to be carried out outside Ukraine if such stay is continuous and is equal to or greater than 183 days, or a controlling authority cannot carry out a check and determine for itself the amount of the payment obligation (and the payer is to be liable) or when the payer is subject to a judicial review of the decision, i.e. to the court - and has already stopped the period of limitation. It's totally discriminatory, take them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u250	1144 not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:29]] For-100 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1172.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u251	So I propose article 103, paragraph 103.2, in the draft law to exclude. Why? Justification. It is not clear on what criteria and who will determine the correctness of obtaining advantages under an international treaty. The norm offers extensive opportunities for subjective judgements. That's the fiscal standard again. It's suggested that we leave everything in line with current legislation, or else we're giving the fiscals the opportunity to interpret how they like it, and continue to make this business a nightmare. In general, this law must be renamed: the law on business rackets and on business injustice and the sovereignty of fiscals. After that, you can actually have all the power, you know, as the Bolsheviks once had the slogan "All power is the council," all power is the fiscals. They're going to do whatever they want to do with business, and it's all going to sanctify the majority. Did you go to Parliament to do that, my friends?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u252	1172 not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:48]] For-97 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1193.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u253	1193, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u255	Thank you. Again, what are we talking about? It's about Article 109, and it's specifically 109.1 -- "Tax Offence." The point is, I suggest you delete the second paragraph. Why? Because there is a very controversial point in determining the intent of the taxpayer's operation to the controlling authorities. I propose leaving the first paragraph, and the right to determine the intent of action to leave to the judicial branch of power. That's what the court is for. Why does our state have a trial if not for it? Let the court determine--there was purpose, there was no purpose. Well, it's not supposed to be fiscal. Again, I'm drawing your attention, look at this. I understand that of the colleagues who don't even listen right now, who read all those who read 1,000 90 pages, who read those 260,000 words? Of course, I read the committee's head, but his mood is clear -- everything for the fiscals, everything for the fiscals.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u256	1193 committees are not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:14]] For-100 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yes, David Georgiyovich. Out of procedure, Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u257	My colleagues, I understand that not everyone wants to work in this room, but I insist again. We don't need to get confused, we just checked the Rules: we can put a vote on procedural matters. So I urge you to put to the vote the question of continuing work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u258	I think we should give the Head of the Rules Committee a word in order to provide information on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, let him decide the hall. Dear colleagues, the offer is made by the head of the David Arahamaiah's "Serve of the People" faction to continue to exhaust the issues of the order of the day. Dear colleagues, please. What? It's gonna be a break, yeah. There'll be a break. Is it? Are you ready to vote and decide whether or not to show up? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give Papi's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u260	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, look at this not so difficult - to take the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and just read it once. There are 49 articles of the Rules: Decisions on procedural matters are taken after their brief discussion. He can't just vote like that. Our faction insists that 49 articles on the procedure and decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine come from procedural issues and also from our faction. Let's stick to it. There's 49th. It is not so difficult to do this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u261	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, let's be honest. There are many more questions today. Fuck us. Wait, please, I'm not finished. Let's not keep the meetings going, we have decisions that are important that need to be voted on in order for our delegations to work in South Africa. And many other questions. Let's do it then. Well, it's just, really, most of the political forces represented in the hall, they've removed their amendments. They don't insist on them. Come on, guys. And including "European Solidarity." I would especially like to thank Nina Petrovni Jujanini, who had many amendments. Alexiyyovich, I also have a request: let's go more constructively. I understand that there are many rights and yours that have been taken into account by the committee; there are those that have not been counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, of course. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u262	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I am absolutely giving you, as they say, an honest and noble word: if you remove this issue in accordance with the Rules now, you will transfer it in 10 working days -- as this article 117 of the Rules requires -- so that everyone can read it, I am ready, on a regular basis, in 10 working days, not to insist on any of my own. And as everything is not done through the Rules, not by the Rules, but by the knee, I will insist on my rights, because my rights are not for me. My rights are for thousands, thousands, thousands of entrepreneurs who still live in this country, who haven't gone from here to find a better fate than your head in the mist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u263	1203.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u264	It's a very important thing to do. It's a very important thing to do. So, look, they've just written what words, "No matter how guilty you are." This is the fault of both the taxpayer and the controlling authority. Excuse me, what do you mean, he's not dependent on guilt? So we're going to punish no matter what the guilt is? The very existence of guilt should be a basis for accountability by both the taxpayer and the controlling authority. And I propose that the word "independent on the existence of guilt" be excluded. They have to be ruled out, it's a very important thing. I see that even the chairman of the committee has something to say. Oh, thank God! Hallelujah! Maybe we'll hear him say, "We've lost track, we've forgotten." We're waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u265	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u266	Alexiyovich, please read carefully. We write this in terms of the state. The State, regardless of its guilt, must answer to the payer. What do you deny here? It's all logical and all right. By the way, this is a different revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u267	It's the vote of 1203, the People's Deputy of Potterenka, I'm sorry. It is suggested that the committee reject it, and I ask you to identify and vote. [[13:37:26]] For-80
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u268	80-yes. 1206.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u269	I'm drawing your attention to the fact that I just said that there's both. Please read it. "In cases defined." Paragraph 109.3 read: "In cases defined by points." They're all still listed. And it's not just about the state. Well, it's the same thing. It doesn't make any sense, because it's actually the exact same thing -- that it's "independent on the existence of guilt" to rule out. If the past has not passed, there is no point in voting now because they are connected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u270	I'll bet you 1206, Hotcharyenko. Not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:30.]] Z-91 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1225, line of the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u271	That's the same argument, and I, given that my first two revisions didn't go through, this doesn't make any sense anymore, so I don't insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u272	Thank you. 1254.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u273	So this is really important because what is this about? I propose that the words "recover" be replaced by the words "renewable" on the day of removal. Why is this important? Because the acceleration of the restoration of the expiration period is not clearly determined when the course is being resumed. So why wait, if a specific day has already been removed, for reasons to stop the passing of time? A simple technical correction, I don't understand why it was rejected. By the way, I'd like to inform you that the committee's head has been misled, Zelensky has misled the entire state, and the Gethmans have been deceiving only our hall when he says he supports the American Chamber of Commerce this. I have been holding a letter from the American Chamber of Commerce since December 17, 2019. I'm going to read it in more detail when the next amendment is done, how they "support" what you've been saying, and how they say you can't accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u274	Edit 1254 Pottery, please identify yourself. [[13:40:10]] For 1052 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1259.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u275	I continue to read a letter from the American Chamber of Commerce. It was signed by someone -- it was signed by Mr. Andrey Gunder, where he applied, where he made a lot of suggestions. These proposals are not taken into account. And to talk about someone in the business community supporting this, well, show me this masochist hanger, who's going to support it? What are we talking about? They're just not in the business community. Now, about this particular amendment of mine. We have this article: "In the event that there is at least one mitigating circumstance, the fine is 50 percent of the size of the corresponding article of the Code." So this is the humane norm, the weakening, if there's a reason. I suggest you do 30, 30 percent -- it'll be okay, it's at least a step towards business. Once again, no country in the world that destroyed its business that destroyed its own economy is successful. And you can't make a bike here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u276	1259, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:36]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 1261, the potter's girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u277	Also, it's important to make adjustments. What's the point? This article now reads: "In the case of one person two or more tax offences, fines are imposed for each offence committed separately." I suggest that we add here -- this is a refinement of the order of application of this rule -- to be added: "In the case of one person two or more tax offences. - further, - which have been detected in one or different tests, fines are applied for each offence committed separately." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u278	1261, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:32]] For-99 1283.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u279	It's also a very important question. In fact, there is another opportunity for us to meet the business. What are we talking about? The damage caused by unlawful decisions, actions, or the inaction of controlling authorities. Once everyone has proven that they have been done, in fact, the damage has been done to the enterprise, then you write: "The sum of such compensation should not exceed 50 per cent of the minimum wage set for 1 January of the calendar year in which the relevant court decision is taken." Why only 50? Why? Why, as the taxpayer's responsibility -- you've made it worse, you've taken it just in such "eat gloves" -- and when it comes to the damage already done to the taxpayer -- you limit it to only 50 minimum wages? I'm offering at least 70. At least 70! It's some kind of step towards business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u280	1283 committees are not included. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:52]] For-126 The decision is not taken. 1290.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u281	And this is the norm, look: friends -- everything, fiscals -- everything, and business -- this is the law. Look what they're offering to do here. Article 116, "The alienation of property that is in a tax mortgage without the consent of the controlling authority." It means, "Absence by a taxpayer of property taxes, which is in a tax deposit without prior agreement by the controlling authority, if it is mandatory to obtain such an agreement, under the code, to impose a fine in the amount of the value of the alien property." Please tell me, why should such a fine be of great value? I suggest you make at least half the value of alienated property. Because we're showing again just some, uh, repulsive, steel standards. I don't really know who decided. Do you have "dark knights"? Well, I take it you have one too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, come on, we're under the Rules, as amended. And without the lyric, without the stories and the like. 1290, please identify and vote. [[13:45:16]] Z-91 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1304, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u283	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out to you that as a national MP, I have the right to base my case as I see fit. And no one, even a respectable man like you, can put obstacles in this and tell me how to do it. Thank you. And hopefully we won't go back to that question. Now about 1304. In fact, it's about Article 117, "The violation of the established order of accounting (registration) in the control bodies." Again, we are now asked to increase four times the fines, four times, I repeat, to increase the fines by four times. Well, that's not normal, I say. Let's at least put it out as an increase of 2 times the current fines, that's also an increase, but not 4 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u284	1304 is not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:34]] For 111 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1345.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u285	1345, so what are we talking about? This is about extending the period of time to correct a tax error by the taxpayer before counting a fine. So I'm offering instead of 30 calendar days where a taxpayer can fix the errors on his own, make 45 calendar days from the day the message comes. So the controlling authority has made mistakes, there's a possibility that the taxpayer can fix those mistakes for 45 days, and all of that, and on this subject, you don't have to fight each other, you don't have to spend state money, you spend your time paying taxes, you don't know what you're doing. So it's very important that I think we extend these error correction lines from 30 days to 45 days. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u286	There is a vote of 1345 people's deputies, Honcharenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:51]] For 111 The next item is 1351. You don't insist, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u287	Why don't I insist? Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u288	Oh, please, I'm saying, 1351.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u289	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u290	1351 your turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u291	I insist on 1351, a very important amendment. This is in article 119.1 on a violation of the order of reporting to the authorities regarding contracts for leases, immovable property. Again, an increase in fines is proposed. I suggest we cut it by two: instead of 340 dollars for each such violation, we make 170 dollars for each such violation. Once again, a minimum step can be taken by those who are engaged in economic activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u292	Vote 1351 of the national MP Hotcharenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:57]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The only one. We've got Leader 5-B, schoolboys. Let's wave and move on to 1352. [[Applause]] 1352.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u293	By the way, I think if the economic council were in 5-B, there would be a level higher than in the Prime Minister's office, according to what I heard in the records. Now about what we're talking about. This is about the same article, violating the rules and deadlines. Once again, I propose to reduce the fines, not 340 dollars, but 170 dollars for each such violation. The same logic: You don't have to make such dragon standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u294	Vote 1352 of the national MP Hotcharenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:09]] For 101
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u295	1364, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u296	1364. Thank you. What are we talking about? Against the backdrop of the total increase in fines, it is suggested that fines be reduced in part by the taxpayer’s default and payment of the fine from 5 to 3 percent. What are we talking about? So if there is a failure by the taxpayer to comply with the tax requirements of this code for making changes to the tax report itself, it entails imposing a fine of 5 percent of the amount of the self-declared reduction. Well, if it's a self-declining reduction, let's make a fine of 3 percent, at least once again, of some kind of mitigation instead of these dragon rules. And once again, I remind the presiding masters, please never once have you answered my question about Article 117 of the Rules, which provides for 10 working days, that documents should have come to us in 10 working days, at least in 10 calendar days, Lord, already. But not in two days, a thousand pages of text.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u297	You have an opportunity as a national MP to make a request. Thank you. 1364 steel for the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:37]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1369.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u298	1369. So what's this all about? The argument is the same. The fines are unjustifiably large. I suggest we cut them down. In this case, what are we talking about? By the way, some of my proposals for fine reduction have been taken into account, which I thank you for, these are past revisions, at least in fact, and this is already some step. It's, by the way, that we're sitting here doing something to make it heard. But unfortunately, that's not what was heard here. And it's about not getting married, not reporting to a controlling person in a timely way about controlled foreign companies. And you wrote down 1,000 of the minimum wage. I propose making 250 sizes for a reasonable reason, because what you do, the people who read this law will say that we will never come to this country to do business, ever, because this country, if we don't give up God, don't do that, or they'll just give up, or some fiscal will want to racket us, it'll just destroy us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u299	Thank you. 1369. Please identify and vote. The committee doesn't count. [[13:53:05]] For 118 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1476.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u300	1476, what we're talking about is foam. So I suggest the next one. Not counting the day of payment of a penny until the day of payment, for which it is also necessary to pay. Because now it turns out that even the day that the foam was paid, it's calculated, it's going to be calculated the size of the foam, and we understand that it's absurd. Let's just add very simple words, very simple correction, nothing clever, to include the words "including the day.""...excluding the words "including the day of payment." Period. And we're the norm. Well, at least we'll do something human.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u301	I'm betting on a vote of 1476, please identify and vote. [[13:54:11]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1510.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u302	1510 is a very important amendment. The difference in the amount of depreciation of non-reversible assets is proposed to be cancelled. Today, the tax code does not have limitations and requirements for assessing the purpose of using acquired goods, jobs, and services. In doing so, there are differences in the code to correct the financial result of taxing the depreciation of non-reversible assets that arise mainly for the following reasons: these are different minimum allowed depreciation periods for the amount of depreciation of non-producers, etc. In this regard, two basic assets and intangible assets for accounting purposes and for tax purposes are needed to determine the difference in the depreciation of non-reversible assets. Spending time is up to 10 percent of the total amount of FTE required to administer all taxes. In my opinion, the preservation of two parallel accounts is not justified. Let's remove that difference at the legislative level -- and that would make tax accounting easier and less time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u303	1510 is not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:43]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 1515.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u304	1515. We've got 1511, too. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to speak of 1511.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u305	Yeah, 1511.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u306	Thank you very much. So it's 1511. It's the same thing, once again, that we actually have to spend two, increase spending and time, and the money to account for two parallel accounts of non-returnable assets: accounting and tax. Why would you do that? My 1511 regulation will allow the legislative level to be eliminated and will significantly simplify tax accounting, reduce the amount of time required to make declarations, and at the same time it will not lead to budget losses for clear reasons, because there will be no budget problems here, and for an enterprise it will be a plus. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u307	I'm betting on the 1511 vote. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:03]] For-96 The decision is not taken. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. 1515.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u308	Thank you. So that's what this is all about. I propose paragraph 3 of paragraph 138.1 of article 138.1 of the draft law to delete. "The calculation shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of international financial reporting standards." All of it. And this paragraph, it's just unnecessary. And that's why I'm proposing to rule it out, and then there's not going to be this paragraph right now that says, "Amortization is not included in the period of non-use of essential assets in economic activity in connection with their modernization, reconstruction, construction, equipment and conservation." Let's make an account for international financial reporting standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u309	1515 is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:06]] For 106 1577. Please, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u310	1577. So that's what this is all about. It's very important. The financial result of the tax reporting period is increasing. About this article. I propose to add the inclusion: "except for budgetary institutions, non-profit organizations, which are a pool of insurers, if the participation of the insurer in such a merger is a condition for carrying out the activity of such an insurer in accordance with the law, that is, not his own position, but according to the law he should be in union, - and non-profit organizations, which are a pool of joint owners of multiple apartment buildings." That's a supplement, his point is that the owners of the indwelling place, his parts in the apartment building, can only buy services from companies that are allowed to run housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u311	1577. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:27]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 1578.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u312	It's just a fit. It's a technical thing, but it's important. Now it says, "The standards of this sub-item are applied according to the results of the tax year." So the word "tax" has to be deleted -- that's all. And it will be normal, clearly, that the standards of this sub-item are applied according to the results of the reporting year. It's a technical important thing, but something our tax committee didn't support. Please consider my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u313	1578. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:18]] For-93 1591
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u314	1584.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u315	1584?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u318	1584. I'm asking you to give me back my time. Please, this is an important amendment. Dear Chairman! Dear Chairman, give me back my time, please, so I can explain it. Yeah, well, that's wrong. I'll be there, I won't be shrinking for the next. Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah. The stadium is a stadium. "To 30 percent of the value of goods, including non-reversible assets, jobs and services, except for operations.".. So I suggest you change 30 to 20. Why? Because 30 percent is a significant increase in the financial result to tax. 20 percent is actually a perfectly normal norm. What's the point? This is the percentage of the value of goods, including non-resident assets, works and services registered in States included in the list of States (territories) approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with sub-paragraph 39.2.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u319	I'll bet you 1584 votes, Hotcharyenko. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:52]] For-99 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1585.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u320	Thank you. By the way, I'd like to point out that our whole conversation is like some kind of, excuse me, fool talk to yourself. Because I'm talking to someone, I'm talking to the chairman -- he's silent, I'm talking to another chairman -- he's silent. I've got an update. The committee's chairman has to comment. According to the law, the committee’s head should explain the reason for the rejection. We've already forgotten since the deviation. I'm saying some serious things, I'm not just changing letters. I'm talking about terms, terms, important things. What, the answer to my words is nothing but silence and silence. It's as empty as the President's head. 1585. What are we talking about? This is about bringing tax legislation into line. Now it says, "the standards of this sub-item are applied according to the results of the tax year." I'm saying that the word "tax" should be deleted, left only "reporting year" -- and it would sound right to say that "the norms of this sub-item are applied according to the results of the reporting year."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u321	1585. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:31]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 1591.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u322	Thank you. I'm once again pointing out that there's no comment on my papers by the committee manager, so I understand that he doesn't have anything to say, and that's very sad, because that means he understands what he's doing, but he's still doing it. Why? I don't know, I don't know, it's hard to answer. Maybe he's speechless, I don't know, maybe somehow he's being punished at the "Serial of the People" faction, I don't know if he's going to say anything. Well, maybe he will talk to the end of the discussion. The cost of the fines. What are we talking about? I propose the words "and for the sum of the fines of a penny counted by the controlling authorities and other public authorities for violating the requirements of legislation" to exclude. Because this rule unduly increases the list of corrections, it is suggested that the above words be deleted. This is important, important for business and businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u323	1591. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:50]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 1609.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u324	What about 1604? Counted, thank you. 1609. So, 1609. Again, it's about bringing tax legislation into line, and they've written all over the place about this tax year. By the way, I want to say again about a letter from the American Chamber of Commerce that puts together these very questions that I'm now addressing, which I'm drawing your attention to. And they put it all on our tax committee. Unfortunately, our tax committee didn't count any of this, once again I say, nothing, nothing. And then we have a question about what we're going to do tomorrow when we say business: come to us. "Go back and stay" is the slogan that we're going to our economy with. Or, "Fiscal is all rights to destroy an entrepreneur"? I think this slogan is more relevant. Please consider my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u325	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u326	Dear colleague, thank you, in fact, for every amendment you make is the position of the committee. Each of your amendments can be explained by why we did not count it because we considered every amendment you made as well as the other deputies. And as for each amendment, we understand why not, especially, about this amendment. If you read the text of the law, you'd see that we're using the term "tax reporting period." Are you suggesting that the word "taxable" be removed, why do you suggest? Where do you propose? If you or your representatives came to the working groups and we really discussed this, as we did every day, every day, from December to the moment we made a decision on the committee, you would understand our whole argument. There's an argument about every amendment, but I don't want to, I respect my colleague and I don't want to take it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u327	Thank you. 116. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please identify and vote. 1609, I'm sorry. [[14:07:24]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 1612.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u328	Thank you. It's 1612. First of all, thank you for talking to me. And I want to remind you that I've been asking specific questions about terms, terms, why you don't want to improve terms for entrepreneurs, but you do everything for fiscals. I don't know your reasons. The second thing I'd like to say. I've never been invited to the committee you're in charge of. If I received an invitation from you, I would be happy to come and discuss it on every side of the committee. Unfortunately, I have not received such invitations, so today I insist directly here. Now it's as normal as this. I propose to exclude an item whose standard is unacceptable because it foresees a business goal for all transactions with nonresidents. It is easy to abuse and treat standards on the part of tax authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u329	1612 is not included. Please identify and vote. [[2:08:41]] For-97 Unaccounted for. 1650.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u330	A very important issue is the characteristics of non-resident taxation. What are we talking about? I propose that paragraphs two and three be deleted: these are paragraphs 141.4.2 and 141.4 of article 141. Why? Because in fact, if we leave it now as it is, we're going to get double taxation of one kind of income. Once again, double taxation! Clearly, then, this must be ruled out. Because it's written here like: "If a resident makes a non-resident's payment of the income specified in the paragraphs in excess of the sum." etc., etc., etc. etc. If we leave these paragraphs, we'll actually lead to double taxation of one kind of income, which is a brutal violation of all the principles of general taxation and economic principles of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u331	1650 not included. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:58]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 1702.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u332	Thank you. Tax discount. So, what's the point? The following paragraph (Article 166.2.1) has been inserted here: “The tax deductions are in fact carried out by the taxpayer during the tax year, as confirmed by the corresponding payment and accounting documents, such as receipts, fiscal or commercial cheques, warrants identifying the seller of work and the person applying for a tax deduction, as well as copies of contracts, for their availability, which must reflect the value of such goods and their sales terms”. I'm just suggesting that we rule that out, because this proposal only complicates the order of the declaration, the application of the declaration and the receipt of the tax deduction. It's like it's written specifically to make sure there's no tax deduction, it's like it's like it's like that slide, but it's not really there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u333	It's not a law about wild beasts. Let's go to the 1702 vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:15]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 1703.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u334	I think this whole review of the law is like one wild beast, so that's exactly what it's all about. Well, if I can't get a professional comment from the chairman of the committee, that kind of comment from the Chief of the Supreme Council, he's happy. So now, about this point that I just said. It's the same thing -- again, it's a tax discount, only the next item is 166.2.2. Little did they think I'd just read it to you. You know, in order to get this discount, you also have to bring your grandmother's genealogical to the fifth knee, and they wrote, "the copies of the documents mentioned in this paragraph are given along with the tax declaration, and the originals of those documents are not sent to the controlling authority, but they are subject to the retention by the taxpayer of the tax within the period of time established by this code. In case the corresponding costs are confirmed by an electronic accounting document, the taxpayer only points out in the statement of property and income to require an electronic accounting document." Well, put it away!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u335	1703. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:46]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 1711.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u336	Thank you. So this is our next question. Article 168, "The procedure for accounting, maintenance and payment of the tax recalculation to the budget." So what's this all about? I propose that paragraph 168.4.9, paragraph 168.4. of the law be deleted. Why? Because this rule complicates the administration and the payment of taxes to the budget. Please listen to what they have to offer. "The tax sums accrued by a tax agent or a natural person who receives income from a person who is not a tax agent, from income for renting natural persons, sub-render, emphitevise land plots, land particles (pails) allocated or not in-kind in the area shall be paid by such a tax agent or such a natural person to the corresponding budget at the location of such lease objects." It's just a complication of administration and payment of taxes, a major pain for accountants and businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u337	1711. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:06]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 1722.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u338	Thank you. Article 170, "The Personalities of Accounting, Payment and Taxation of Individual Incomes." It's about rent. If the tenant is a natural person who is not a self - employed person, a person. Well, it's still listed there. Can someone please explain to me why there should be words about a self-employed person? I don't understand the purpose of this change. I suggest you leave the code of conduct as it is now. You don't have to think of lisapet where it is, it's totally unnecessary. I'd like to delete the words about a self-occupied person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-16-m0.u339	1722. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:08]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
