ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, good morning again. Please prepare to register. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:04:47]] There are 282 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, our colleague, National Deputy Zuba Valeriyyovich, is today's birthday. I want health, success, strength, and achievement. (Applause) Dear colleagues, let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we have up to 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up for the performance. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Of course, today I'm going to speak and dedicate my speech to that topical, important topic that concerns today's extraordinary plenary meeting, which will take place at 4:00 p.m. and the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the appointment of a new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's what I want to pay attention to. When we all heard the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we talked about it, and our faction, and I had the opportunity to talk about it from this rostrum, we have a failure at all macroeconomic rates. We have a decline in the rate of economic growth, we have a fall in industrial production, we have a failure to implement the budget, we have an increase in debt from wages. And these are the results and summations of the work, not the 28 years of independence of Ukraine, but after a half or six months of activity of a particular Cabinet of Ministers that failed and was worse than its predecessors. What do we have now? We have 2020 and it's been two months. And the economic situation is only getting worse. In January, it's minus 5.1 industrial output, compared to 19. The budget was not implemented by more than 6 percent on the basis of two months of 2020. The increase in debt for residential services is up to 67 billion dollars. This is what economic reforms from today's Cabinet of Ministers look like. Surely we will support the resignation of this disgraceful government and their pseudosocial and anti-economic policies. But we insist that the new team that will come propose a new economic course, reject the economic and anti-social policy that the previous government of Potteryuk has cultivated. We insist that these shameful draft laws be repealed on the ground, on the scrap metal, so that they do not touch strategic objects that want to let go of the hammer for privatization. And we're talking about that. In order for the country to develop civilizationally and evolutionaryly, so that we can move like the world's advanced economies, we've focused on technological development, on modernization, on accelerating the depreciation of the core funds, which are over 80-90 percent, and in individual sectors, it's 100 percent. And we will insist that the new budget for 2020 be proposed by a new team, a new Cabinet of Ministers programme and completely new economic steps that will allow the country to move forward and Ukrainian citizens to live with dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u4	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that today the government was just taking a nap in a crisis in the state, not just the Coronavirus we talked about in the heads of officials and politicians. I want to look at all the questions that we've been asked during our tour across the Lugansk region of our team, people who are asking who will be responsible for Kobolev's wages of 1.5 billion dollars, why they still haven't released this woe leader who gets 28 million dollars a month's salary; who today will be responsible for the wages that they received in the government before the New Year's, billions; who will be responsible for the wages of the Head of Crushbackers at 2 million dollars a month is a million dollars a year. That's not how a minister gets in America, Trump doesn't even get that kind of salary. Please tell me, who will be responsible for the transit of gas, for which every average citizen receives a huge amount of money? Who today will be responsible for not even using gas but for paying for transit? There are no batteries and no heat in the driveways, and today they take the heat from every person in each driveway. Please tell me, who of the ministers who wants to take a nap from this room today will answer to women miners and miners who don't get eight months' wages? And the meetings, in defiance of the President, that in two months they will be fully accounted for, are full of lies. Every day, people suffer from what is undernourished today. People today suffer from the corrosion of our country’s corruption, which is Ukraine’s main disease. People are fleeing the country, young experts are fleeing the country. When will jobs be made available? Can you please tell me when this vachanal will end? Today, the Shahov team in the Luhansk region is being persecuted, all the force structures ordered by the bandits in Severodonetsk. We're raising the layers of problems to the surface, and it's something someone doesn't like, who's been robbing our state for 28 years. I'm going to the Ministry Minister, to Habakkuk: let him flip the page over and see what's happening today in the Luhansk region, which is corruption. Drugs are sold at every turn, all cities are being robbed today, metal scraps out -- no one's looking at it. The forest is being cut out, and all businesses are being looted, destroyed, and destroyed. Who will answer to the Ukrainian people? Give me an answer. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Sosun Inni Romanovni. Excuse me, Klimenko Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u6	Dear "ministers of the people," as well as other factions, today I also want to tell you what we will do with you after lunch, namely to vote in favour of resigning the government and for a new government. We warned you in August, colleagues, don't bet on individuals, build institutions, develop strategies for a successful Ukraine. You actually did it that time, you approved through the head of all the deputies, you approved the Cabinet of Ministers, "like a cat in a bag." There was no question that we had been able to ask the candidates; there was no discussion of the candidates. As a result, most "ministers" don't even know the names of those ministers who are now ministers. So we ask you very much and insist that this time the procedure of discussion take place as in normal democratic countries, namely: there was a roll-call vote, a roll-call discussion. Any candidate should come and tell us, the deputies and the Ukrainian people, where he came from, what governments Yushchenka, Yanukovich and the predecessors worked, what political elites had served before, and give us the opportunity to ask questions. This is our requirement, our first requirement. Second requirement. Please, if you want to change the government, first listen to the ministers as well as those you intend to change. That is, report to law enforcement agencies, on which much depends, not just on ministers. First, change the order of the day, and let them hear what they have done in seven, nine months, seven months. And to give them the opportunity to ask them why we still have no fight against corruption, no judicial reform has even shifted from place, a weak external political position. So, colleagues, "Serves of the People," who are still probably not familiar with the names of those candidates who are going to vote today, look closely at these people, they're already in power, they're "stiff businessmen," but they know not only how to do good to the Ukrainian people, but how to do good to those behind them, and especially to the pro-Russian candidates that we're going to have today. And I also want to give you one piece of advice: build institutions, no change in the decoration to the quality of the theater has anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Lušnjak Mikola Volodymirovich, MP "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u8	Good day, distinguished Ukrainian people, distinguished Mr. Head, fellow national MPs! Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Ternopilstina, Trust Group. For more than 25 years, we have had a painful issue in Ukraine: the question of decomposing lands, which are particularly valuable and are not decomposing. This was in 1995-1996. In particular, in the Ternopil region, this problem was met in 2019. There was an attempt to assassinate the Rector of the Ternopil National Economic University, which some people were forced to give up these lands without any legal relationship. He refused. There was an attempt, there was an appeal by the people's deputies to the President of Ukraine, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the Minister of Internal Affairs. In order to prevent further such events from taking place in the country, these lands today need to be transferred to the land of general purpose in order for those who deserve to be destroyed and those enterprises to be destroyed. Why are we taking this precedent today? Perhaps someone has already laid a paw on these lands and wants to preserve them and perhaps quietly privatize them, has no desire to transfer them to the status of a general assignment. This is over 250,000 lands of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. These people have earned this right, they've been working for more than a decade on these businesses, and they're being illegally and unjustly limited in their status so that we can give everyone their land. I appeal to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, to order Parliament to transfer those lands and to transfer them from a country of special value. Count the amount of land needed for scientific purposes so that we can leave the scientific institutions so that they can conduct their scientific research and introduce new technologies. But believe me, more than a million hectares of land of special value to Ukraine is not needed, but these people who have earned it die every day. And today there is an unfair government, unjustly the Supreme Council, unjustly to the President of Ukraine, having so much power, not to make this decision, which has been put into a long box for more than 25 years. I want to go back to the future Cabinet of Ministers. The Prime Minister, ex-Prime Minister, spoke recently after tonight, telling us what a forest is. So I want to remind the new government that the forest is not just forest resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Next National Deputy Mamyan Suto Čolojevic. And please, the people's deputy of Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u10	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Today, despite the disastrous situation in Ukraine, the Supreme Council continues to consider amendments to the Law on the Circumstances of Lands of Agricultural Assignment, for that is what authorities want. Despite opposition and opposition from the entire Ukrainian people, 72 percent of the Ukrainians are in favor of extending the moratorium, trying to sell this anti-national, anti-constitutional law. The only argument of power is that the President and the faction have that right, because the transparent market of the land is the point of President Vladimir Zelensky's programme, which won 73 percent of the vote in the second round. I want to ask, what would be the support of the President if he wrote honestly and transparently in his program, "I will sell Ukrainian land at the request of the International Monetary Fund and Soros?" What would be the rating of Vladimir Zelensky if he honestly said that the government of non-professionals and sociologists would rule the state? What would Greene's rating be if he said that the government would be headed by a prime minister who had the money to pay off the government's hundreds of thousands of dollars in premiums, but didn't have the funds to index pensions? What would be the president's rating if he confessed to trusting the Minister of Mineconomy, who would bring the economy to collapse and then start teaching Ukrainians how to sneeze and wipe their noses? What would be the President's support rating if he admitted to continuing the tariff genocide of Yatsenuk-Grysman? What would Zelensky's rating be like if he said honestly, "We won't celebrate May 9th," as Foreign Minister Pristajko recently said? The worst part is that the president of the country, where every single piece of land is covered with the blood of the liberator soldiers who fought the fascist invasion, has neither condemned his minister. If Vladimir Zelensky had written all of this honestly in his program, he wouldn't have gotten 73 percent on the second round, but he wouldn't have had a chance to even get into it. Mr. President, stop this show. Yes, according to the Constitution, Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic, but, in fact, all the important administrations are in your hands, Mr. President, and all responsibility lies with you. Search this government of prophens. Stop the land affair. It's in your power. You still have a chance to change the country. Apologize to the people. Create a national rescue government and start implementing your electoral program and your promises that you have so generously distributed to the people that you can get to the second round and earn 73 percent of your will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of the Ironworks, the faction of the political party of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u12	Finally, we realized what a turbine is. It's when very quickly, literally in six months, we forget about promises and new faces when the youngest parliament loses its memory, and somehow we have an opportunity, I understand, tonight, to see people who worked at Yushchenka, Yanukovich, Dustyka, as new officials who will work for the new president. We didn't vote for the cabinet's past composition. Including because we asked them to present each minister by name. This requirement was not met. We warned you that this would be the result. And now you've got it. But the worst part is that we're making a mistake again. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know most of the ministers to be appointed. You didn't see them in the face, and some of the names you didn't even hear, I understand, and at the President's presentation. So we're going to demand, first of all, that we protect your rights, so that the future Prime Minister can present separately each member of the Cabinet of Ministers, who seems to provide the result. In order for Mr. Babak to hear who will be the new minister of education. In order for Mr. Gethmans to hear who will be the minister of finance. In order for Mr. Raducci to hear who will be the minister of health. In order for all of you to understand who will be personally responsible for your political position. And that's all that matters. So we demand that if there is a new Cabinet appointment today, it should be a name vote for every new Cabinet member representing it to you and in the Hall. At least we'll meet this requirement. Second, dear colleagues, it's spring. One of the presidential candidates promised major changes, including anti-corruption. But we don't see them, and the reason for that in law enforcement is in everyone. So another requirement of ours is that before we do personnel rotations and personnel changes, we demand that the first item be the law enforcement report for us to understand, and what they did at all, so that people don't feel justice. Once again, we don't need new faces with old sins, we need a professional government, we need a discussion, we need a parliamentary-presidential republic, not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u13	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Royal. Royal, please. National Deputy Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u14	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Today is a very responsible day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, the first question is the question of government. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote in favour of the resignation of the Government of Pottery. But we don't think that's enough just to resign. It's not like we're having trials here that any team can come in, create a lot of nasty things for six months, do experiments, learn something, do something in the country, and then quietly retire. And we're going to get a new one, no one who understands. That is why we demand responsibility. Responsibility for what they did. Sorry, they did not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine when they were in power, governing the entire Ukrainian executive system. The Opposition Platform for Life, along with the public, along with other people's deputies, won 7 decisions by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Unfortunately, however, the Government of Pottery ignored the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And that's criminal responsibility. And we demand responsibility for failure by the Government of the Potter of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. According to the laws of Ukraine, there should be an indexation of pensions on March 1st in our country. Each pensioner should receive a pension of more than 216 dollars. But the Goncharuk government does not criminally index pensions to Ukrainian pensioners. How can we mistreat people like that? Why do you deprive our elderly people, those who are still outside the poverty line, who are still surviving in this country, of the rights to those miserable 200 dollars to get an extra pension? We demand responsibility for failing to comply with Ukraine’s laws. And the third question is the failure of the budget and the decline in industrial production. How much can Honcharuk and his young team tell us about how they don't steal, but where's the money, dear? Where's the money that didn't get the state budget in January and February 20th? Where did they end up? If this money is in someone’s pockets, we demand that the law enforcement authorities do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Then we have a national MP, Frost, who also gives you time. Please, three more minutes of Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u16	And that's why we demand that for the money that Ukraine's state budget did not receive in January and late 19th, it be the personal responsibility of the respective ministers of the Government of Potter. And also, honourable colleagues, about tariffs. We can hear a lot of stories about how they're lowering payments, but unfortunately, in our country under the government of the Pottery Man got not one, but two payments. And so, Mr. President, it was simply a matter of changing the face of the government, taking responsibility for the mistakes that this government has made, for the grief they have caused in the last six months, that we have to take personal responsibility. And the second question. They're going to be looking at a new government today, but neither the government's programs, nor the ministries' programs, nor the country's development strategy -- we don't see anything. We're seeing a continuation of the monopoly of power today because the authorities are afraid of competition. Because you're afraid to show the faces of these so-called new ministers, and we all see them, and KWN continues. You continue to play with the country because to appoint a government without a country's development strategy, to appoint a government today without an anti-crisis program, how to bring a country out of crisis, to gather anyone into the next government, and to continue to create experiments on the country "The Opposition Platform for Life" is unacceptable. Therefore, we will not vote for the appointment of a new government. Because, we think, today there must be a government of national unity, a government of professionals who will be able to get the country out of the crisis in a short time, create all the necessary conditions to protect our national producer today and protect our Ukrainian citizens today. Today we need a program of state protectionism, a program of protecting people and our country. Today we need political will to carry out the Minsk Accords and to protect people so that our Ukrainians will no longer die in the east, so that our country will return to peace today. Today, more than ever, it is necessary to exercise political will and to commit this Law on earth before the new government is appointed and to put it aside as a mistake made under the government of the Potter. Today we have to give up the desire to return the casino and adopt the Slave Labour Code. Today, we need to hear from the new government the answer as they block the medical reform from April 1st and put the reform of Suprun into oblivion. Today we need to change the country, not do another show and assign any ministers who will continue to create experiments on the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u17	The word is given to the national deputy Shapoval Yuri Anatoliovich. Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u18	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Larissa Bilozer, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin, Future Group. Dear colleagues, you know very well that since April 1st, the next phase of the reform is starting, and the reform is not really ready for April 1st. We think our Future Group thinks it needs to be delayed for at least one year. I want to give you an example of the Winnitsky area and my 15th district. All health - care services that have entered medical guarantees are expected to pay full for the National Health Service. Such a medal really works in many lands. But what I'm trying to say is that as of today, a package of medical services has been released late, it's impossible to prepare for a package of medical services. It's not clear what the value of these batch services is, if the wage is high in the original, we don't see any possibility of increasing it. Imagine that a polyclinic intake will cost 49 bracelets of X-rays and laboratory tests, EKH and CCD. No one knows how to plan the costs, no one knows the future budget of the hospital. There is absolutely no explanation on the part of the ILO and the government. What I'm saying is that this reform is actually a proponent. So our Group for the Future advocates that this government should be retired just as we will support the Prime Minister's resignation. This health reform is very formal. Note how there are 212 supported hospitals all over Ukraine: they are hand-defined, completely manual, no hospital councils, no patient routes. All the rights of people who have the right to an effective and quality medicine are absolutely violated. Instead, on our roads, you can't go to some of the hospitals that support you, not just to get in one hour of gold, but you can't even get in two or three hours. The Ministry of Health’s absolute wrong methodology. I've had a lot of meetings with the minister, with the deputies, with the Prime Minister. I mean, it's full of indifference. We, the national MPs, represent the interests of our constituents, of our people. There's people behind us. And if this government doesn't even hear us, what to say, what is the situation now. And in places today, "medical fairs", people will perform today. And nobody's talking about it! And in fact, the issue of medical reform is very acute because it applies to everyone. Our Group "For the Future" is asking for a review of this reform as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is Alexia Hotcharenko, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u20	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, do we all remember the promise of spring will come - landings will be? There are no crews, because we need to plant our own. So instead of landings, the cleaning started -- the cleaning of Kabminu. What's with the Kabmin cleaning? To the truth, my friends! First, for the truth! Because Honcharuk told the truth to all of Ukraine: in the Green Fog in his head, he doesn't understand the economy. And that's why they're firing Potter today. You know, I've already told you from this rostrum that Zelensky invented a new kind of governor, the governor of "soon-happy". Now we have the Prime Minister, who is "sooning". Now I have a question for you. Would it change the names on the boards on the doorboards of their cabinet ministers? It's not going to change anything. Because the problem of the state today is Zelenski. The problem of the state is Zelenski, who has collected all of this kamarilla, which almost half a year later, in a full warehouse, drives away. The problem is Zelenski, who manages the whole country manually, including the government. The problem is Zelenski, who took the position of head of state without any plan or strategy. And now we see a new approach: an old friend better than a new servant. This new proverb today in Ukraine reflects the new human resources policy that we see in government. And, of course, people are already giving it an assessment. Please take a look at Harkish. Yesterday, "The Servant of the People" disgracefully two weeks before the election, he was supposed to take his candidate out of the elections in District 179 because she doesn't have any ratings, she doesn't have any support for people, and it's a shame to go to the polls. And that's why even though her name is Victoria, there was no Victoria there. There has been a defeat, a defeat that cannot be different, because today people are appraising what is happening in the country, so chaos and disorder. But in fact, people today have hope. This hope is definitely an opposition. And the opposition has another victor in Kharkushina, Victoria Ptashnik, the only candidate for opposition from the pro-Ukrainian, pro-European forces. And we all need to unite in order to protect the country from what is happening today, from that chaos, from the turmoil that is manifest today’s meeting and the manifestation of what is the last action we see today. That's true, this is what we can see in our country today. And I'm asking people to remember that. The "Z" government is changing, the "Z" government is going to stay, and people's problems are growing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we are running out of time and we are moving on to further consideration of the amendments to our bill. Last time we finished at the amendment of 2307 of the Taruti People’s Deputies. He was, if I'm not mistaken, speaking. We got a vote left, right? Yes. I'm putting to the vote 2,307 people's deputies of Taruta. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:39:11]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next issue: 2308, National Deputy of Knieżicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Amendment 2308 on the deletion of paragraph 14 in "Transitional positions" was actually counted by the committee because the item is excluded. But the table says it's rejected. And I'd like to ask the rapporteur to explain how the amendment was considered by the committee if it was rejected, because there is no paragraph 14, "Transitional clauses" in the table on deletion, as indicated in line 2308. Please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u23	Please, the position of the committee. Mikola Tarasovich, do you understand the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u24	Yeah. Position. We've got "transitional positions" reformatted. You're technically correct to exclude 14 points. The committee's position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u25	Look, I understand that there were a few of these rights, one of them counted, the other of them rejected. My friends, I'm going to vote 2308, People's Deputy of the Prince. (Noise in the hall) Well, I'll put it to a vote. I'm betting on a vote of 2308. Dear Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry to have to explain such things to you. There could be a few equal lines, one accepted and the rest rejected. You're the one who's making sense, aren't you? The content of this correction is taken into account. That's why I'm putting 2308 to the vote, and the committee's proposing that it be rejected, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[10:41:12]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next issue, 2309. It's the same thing. National MP Yatzik. Don't insist. The next issue is 2310, the National MP of Spinov. Don't insist. The next issue is 2311, the national deputy Keith. Please, give it to Kota. Excuse me? I can't hear you. I asked, there was no response, we moved on. Next up, guys, it's Kota. No. 2311, National Deputy Keith. Okay, let's do 2310. But I'm very much asking the people's deputies not to come back a few times. This will be the last time. That's why I'm asking People's Deputies of Sphenov to react more quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I represent the interests of the people of Shiroki, the Apostolic, the Sofiy district, the Crivorizia region, and the Ingulas. This is usually an agricultural region. People for opening up the land market only after the referendum. So they gave me directions so that I could make this amendment just after the referendum. Please support this amendment. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u27	Thank you. I'm voting 2310, People's Deputy Sphenov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:52]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2311, the national deputy Keith. It doesn't, does it? Okay. The next amendment is 2312, the national MP of Skyczko. Don't insist, all right? Thank you. The next issue is 2313, National Deputy Kamelchuk. Don't insist. The next issue is 2314, the national deputy of Laba. Don't insist. The next issue is 2315, People's Deputy Nadjajchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u28	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Today, from all over the faction, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland, like the whole country, we are once again drawing the attention of this Parliament and especially the monotonous. Our receptions are all over the country. People who address us personally every day are demanding that we stop and stop the affair, which is called "the removal of the Ukrainians of the earth." The other one. People demand that each of the deputies who ignore the amendments here, in this room, appear in the districts, in the districts, in the villages, and primarily explain to the people who work on earth how the main property right of Ukraine to its own land will be guaranteed. Not the international apherists, not the speculators, not the pseudoagrarians, all the smokers of the scheme, but the specific Ukrainians who are to remain the owners of the Ukrainian land under any circumstances. That's why I insist on this amendment. And most importantly, about the U.S. referendum: we insist throughout the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u29	I'll bet on a vote of 2315 people's deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:45:01]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2316, Puzijchuk National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction consistently defends the Ukrainian people's right to rule over Ukrainian land and strongly opposes the sale and dispossessing of Ukrainian land. Dear colleagues, you can already see the consequences of your turbulence. You've seen the effects of the turbulence in some of the entrepreneurial bills that are directed against entrepreneurs. You see the consequences: the economy is falling. Hear reason. Focus on protecting Ukrainian crops, protecting farmers, and protecting small farms. Support Ukrainian manufacturers, do not open doors for foreigners, do not create a market for sale, take a state position, hear the deputies of other factions. I insist on my amendment, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u31	Vote number 2316, Puzijczuk's national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:31]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2317, National Deputy Timothychuk. He insists. The next item is 2318. National Deputy Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u32	Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u33	Klimenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u34	This amendment refers to our basic requirement for this bill, namely, to divide it into stages, to make land reform a step. And the first step is to make it possible to buy the land off the farmers themselves. So we're going to give these people a competitive advantage so they can compete with big corporations, big producers. And yet, using my 30 seconds, I want to say, colleagues, back to the issue of today's government, there's no batch vote in legislation, there's a separate vote on ministers. We demand that there be a vote on each individual minister for appointment. And I also want to say that we want to see and ask the minister of the agro-industrial complex that will implement this land policy that we are discussing here with you. Thank you. We want to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u35	Thank you. It's on. Committee position, please. What? I understand, I give my word to the committee, do you mind? Thank you very much. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u36	Mrs. Julia, how do you know the many rights that have been submitted by Voice are edited as committee regulations. In this part, the position of the committee is different because a level playing field has been proposed for all subjects. The idea of a farmer in Ukraine, as in the whole world, is really just what a person does, not an organizational legal form of registration. We have most of the farmers registered as T.O.S., so as a result of this, this revision was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u37	Thank you. A vote of 2318 of the people’s deputies of the Cabal and others is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2319, National Deputy Schol. Don't insist. The next issue is 2320, National Deputy Nikolaynko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u38	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I'm going to repeat again and again that "The Fatherland" and the entire people of Ukraine demand that the decisions that are being made, and that's exactly what I want them to do, they've taken such an important decision, as President Zelensky has promised, after the people's opinion has been heard. We travel to the districts, we communicate, we meet farmers, we meet agrarians, we know their opinion. The results, unfortunately, of a small number of deputies from the "Serves of the People" who are planning to pass this law, we can already see. Go on, everybody, hear the people if you don't want to hold a referendum. And my advice is that the referendum should be held and only after its results do you call what you call the market of land, which is not that, but it's a sale to the outside government. Thank you. Please support, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u39	Thank you. A vote of 2,320 national MP Nikolayenko is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:29]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2321, Puzanov People's Deputy. I gave the word to Puzanov. It doesn't, does it? Excuse me. Next up, 2322 Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u40	Alexy Kucherenko. The "Fatherland" faction and its leader, Mrs. Timoshenko, consistently opposes the adventurous, treacherous, unthinkable foreign-dependent policy of selling land. It has to be noted that the ruling coalition is misleading the entire Ukrainian people. For six months you tell us that you are voting on all the laws required by the Ukrainian people. Recent research at the center of Razumkov shows that the Ukrainian people want a referendum. That's why this right, assuming that you can just go against this law, makes it impossible for Ukrainian land to be sold abroad to so-called investors who are already willing to buy Ukrainian land through any mechanism. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u41	Thank you. There is a vote of 2322 people's deputies, Kucherenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:52:23]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2323, national Davidenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the law is complex, which provides for changes to section I, sub-paragraph 3, paragraph 1, of the bill. What do these adjustments give us? We're also saying that we're doing a step-by-step sale of land. First of all, a natural person, a legal person, we also impose sanctions for speculation on the earth’s market. That is, if the land is to be reselled for seven years and the income tax of the natural person is to be paid in half of the value of the land. In addition, with this right, we also emphasize the holding of an all-U.S. referendum, but part of the land of agricultural ownership. So please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u43	I'm betting on a vote of 2323, National Deputy Davidenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:41]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line 2326, National Deputy Germany. Vasil Ivanovich, your time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u44	I support my work. I just wish it was louder. You know, we're not at the gallery, we're extreme. We've already got the people in the square behind us. That's why I'd like to hear it. And give me more time to say, coming out of the next thing that's been said. Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak of a referendum here. Let's go to the Constitution. Who is the source of power — us or the people? We're their representatives. They're customers, and we're contractors. We must run around the people and do what they say. And the second. The Constitution provides for the right of the Ukrainian people to manage state affairs directly or through us. So directly, this is a referendum. Do not fool your head or deceive the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. It's just, I don't always feel good either, I'm using this thing called the earphone, it's downstairs, you can wear it, too, but I think that's enough. I'm voting 2326, National Deputy of Germany. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:27]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2327, National Deputy Kirichenko. Don't insist. The next issue is 2330, Slavicka's national deputy. Yes, Slavicka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u46	Antonina Slavicka, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! This amendment concerns the prohibition of the acquisition of ownership of land by foreigners, stateless persons, legal persons, beneficial owners of foreign land, the holding of a nationwide referendum on the sale of agricultural land and the official publication of its results. This is the position of our opposition platform for life. We're told about an open and transparent market for land, but legislation is now being adopted, and that is changes to procedural codes that deprive citizens of a quick court order to respond to a violation if Kabmin is adopted, the authority responsible for the sale of land, any illegal decision on the sale of land. Changes that deprive citizens of the ability to respond quickly to illegal auctions, trades, tenders, or other public proceedings. Not only do people not want to ask whether they agree to sell land under such conditions but they also effectively deprive the courts of their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u47	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2330 National Deputy Slavicsky. The committee suggests that we reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:16]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2331, National Deputy Tchaikovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u48	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u49	Please. Oh, are you voting? A vote of 2331 people’s deputies, Tchaikovsky, is put to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:49]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next item. National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is proposed by this law? Paragraph 14, "Transitional positions" is proposed as of January 1, 24th, in the forehead, without any referendums allowing foreigners to buy Ukrainian land. By January 1st, 24th, hidden mechanisms will be operating in the form of legal persons and banks with foreign participation, and from January 1st, 24th, they'll be offering to buy in the forehead. To allow foreigners to buy land, and, I pay attention, without any referendums. I'm proposing something else with my edit. With my permission, I propose to allow the sale or other way of alienating land only after creating conditions for the functioning and development of agriculture in Ukraine. I realize that neither the committee nor the head understands what the normal conditions for farming in Ukraine are. And that's why they didn't consider this amendment. But these are completely different things. But this can also be done after a nationwide referendum, when citizens of Ukraine are asked to sell land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u51	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2332 people's deputies Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:59:21]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2333, national deputy of Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u52	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yuri Zagradny, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I propose paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations, which reads as follows: "Until the Act on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignment, but not before 1 January 2021, it is prohibited to introduce land (pai) to statutory capitals of agricultural societies." Thank you. Please support and put me to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u53	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2333 people's deputies in Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:15]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2334, National Deputy Shevchenko. Don't insist. The next item is 2335, Puzanov. Don't insist. Next item is 2336, Krasov. Don't insist. The next item is 2337, Krasov. Don't insist. The next amendment is 2338. People's MP Papiew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Again today, you see that in the consideration of a very important bill, which is fateful for Ukrainian citizens, which would generally have had the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject and not accept, because it does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and it first violates article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine and takes possession of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, we insist once again: accept one amendment to this law -- one that this law takes effect after a nationwide referendum on the people's initiative. All of it. This will be the only useful thing you can do if you do it. The Opposition Platform for Life faction insists on upholding the legitimate interests and rights of Ukrainian citizens and not making this decision without a nationwide referendum. I ask you to put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u55	I'll bet you 2338 Papiev's vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:03]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Savichuk, 2340.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u56	Oxana Savchuk, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The point of the amendment is that we first want to insist that the land is not a commodity, it's not sold, and it has to be a moratorium until we really are looking at a land market that will primarily help people to buy this land so that those who really want to process it can work on it. Thus, the amendment applies to the preservation of the moratorium on earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u57	I'll bet you 2340. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:07]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Bunin, 2341. Don't insist. Goncharenko, 2343.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u58	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, do you know why we're being promoted by this Latin American latifundist model? Why, of course, because it's very beneficial to the beneficiaries, the "beneficiaries" of the "Serve of the People" faction. That's exactly what I'm talking about. But why does it not suit Ukraine? The thing is, in Latin America, there's, you know, prairie, pampas, big territories, and there's no people, and we have 13 million people living in the country. And your bill has one tiny problem, little one, but the problem is people, you know, they're people, they're 13 million people living in the countryside, and you're taking away the future, you're taking away the opportunity to make a living, to make a living, to make a living, to make a living, to live on a home land, and to protect this land. That's the problem. So I ask you to support my work, although I understand that my appeal will not give me anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u59	I'm betting on the vote 2343 Hotcharyenka. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:38]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Cymbaluk, 2344.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u60	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, the honourable head of the committee, dear Ukrainians, "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland" insists that only the Ukrainian people in the entire Ukrainian referendum can determine the fate of Ukrainian land. And when someone says that there is no law, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has interpreted that the 1991 referendum law in force is valid and can be used for the sale of Ukrainian land. That's exactly the point I'm making. And we don't stop persuading the majority that we need to go back, remove the law from consideration, and only through the U.S. referendum can we determine. And last sociology says that more than 70 percent of citizens are against the sale of Ukrainian land. Please set the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u61	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. 2344. [[11:06:06]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Ducky, 2345. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u62	How does this not insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u63	I just don't see you. I'm sorry, Alexander Stalinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, questions to Mikola Tarasovich. Mikola Tarasovich, please tell us that Ukraine is an exclusively agrarian country with agrarian development and the construction of our agricultural economy. You today, I know, you have the opportunity and the desire to divide the 2 ministries that we have today, the Ministry of Economics, which has the structure of an agrarian issue, and create a new ministry. Is that so or not? That's the question. Let's get back to it. In Section X, "Transitional positions" in paragraph 14 of paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, replace the words "By 1 January 2024" with the words "To conduct an all-Ukrainian referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u65	I'll bet you 2345. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:36]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2345, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u66	Dmitri Alexandrovich, unfortunately, you're not allowing Mikola Tarasovich to give an answer to the people's MP. Then I'll ask you a more specific question. Please tell me, if you are the Minister of Agriculture, the person who has a dangerous diagnosis who has established this diagnosis for himself, would you please tell him whether he will deal with such an important issue as the agrarian course of our country? Thank you. Please give me an answer now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u67	If a specific question is a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u68	In fact, your amendment applies, as always, to another, and the amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u69	That's why I'm betting on a vote of 2346. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:47]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Taruta, 2347. Don't insist. Kaltsov, 2348. Sergey Alexiyovich, then next time, please let us monitor when the changes are made. I understand. I told you, you kept talking. Taruta, 2347.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u70	Good afternoon! Taruta, the Fatherland faction. First of all, the chairman, we're looking at a very important law -- we have a completely non-working atmosphere here. That's why we don't hear each other, and so when you yell in there, you say in the rostrum, we don't hear anything. And that's why I didn't hear about my adjustment. You should. It's a sacred question: Earth! And we've got absolutely nothing here. Well, I'd say that. I won't say bad, but it's not a working atmosphere. Let's still respect that. It's a big question to hear from each other. My readjustment concerns the moratorium, too. I'd like to hear from Mr. Solski, from the committee about saving villages, saving those 12.5 million working in the countryside. The previous speakers said that the model that is now being proposed would destroy the entire village. $12.5 million! There's no one left in the village! Now they're going out of the village to make more money.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u71	Sergei Alexiyovich, I'll allow myself, since you've mentioned me, to explain that it's going to be hard to really hear each other's voice if you continue the same way. You're saying it's an important bill, you have to follow your orders. If you communicate with your colleagues, perhaps you and the next time you do, you will not hear when I highlight your point. Committee position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u72	Your amendment speaks of a moratorium, a sequel, so the position of the committee is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u73	I'm betting on a vote of 2347. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:18]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 2348, Kaltsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u74	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Vladimir Kaltsev, Zaporozhye. Dmitri Alexanderovich, at first, wanted to offer perhaps Mr. Mikola a seat because he had a leg injury, he said. And we have to take that into account. Perhaps if the MP is allowed, he will report from the scene. But that's his decision. Secondly, I wanted to say something else. First of all, last week we had some big meetings with farmers, farmers, landowners. And the main question they raised is how are we going to create our national class of small, small, medium-sized landowners who are going to process the land. This issue is not resolved in this law. And that's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u76	There is a vote of 2348 people's deputies, Kaltsev. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:58]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2351, Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Don't insist. 2352, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u77	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a right to have all the factions in this Parliament, namely that only the All-Ukrainian referendum will determine the fate of foreigners and their right to acquire ownership of land. But if today is a state of foreign companies, natural aliens, foreign states might own the land in a very salty way, what do they do in this situation? My decree makes it clear that they have no right to manage this land until a referendum is held, as everyone says. But, unfortunately, it's not in the law right now. So I have a request to support it. They will have every right, except the right to sell this land until the people determine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u78	There is a vote of 2352 people's deputies Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:38]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2353, national MP Labazük. Don't insist. The next issue is 2354, National Deputy Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. Don't you insist? You're kind of insisting. Come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the bill contains hidden mechanisms for the acquisition of agricultural land by foreigners, because it does not seem possible to control the final beneficiaries in this bill. So with this right, I propose to include a transitional mechanism in order to delay the acquisition of legal persons for five years or the holding of an all-U.S. referendum. That's how we're going to secure our Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u80	I'll bet you 2354. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:48]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Wolintz, 2355.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u81	Dear Ukrainians, my 2355. I propose paragraph 5 of section 1 of section 1 of the bill to be drafted as follows: "According to the approval (approval) of the ruling on the circulation of agricultural land, the application of land (pai) to statutory capitals of agricultural societies is prohibited." And I'm going to add the following to my due diligence. In order to prevent violations of articles 13, 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I believe that the solution to the issue of the application of land rights (pai) to statutory capitals of agricultural societies is possible only after a nationwide referendum on the circulation of agricultural land is held. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u82	I'll bet you 2355. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:00]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The next three revisions are Double. You asked me to unify in two minutes and we may not vote, do I understand? Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u83	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Again and again, I stress that our leader, Julia Timoshenko, and the faction of "The Fatherland" as well as 73 percent of the Ukrainian people, are definitely against this bill in terms of war, about the sale of our Ukrainian land. The Constitution also states that the earth and its nadra are the property of the Ukrainian people. Once again, I would like to point out that, as of today, most of the district councils in their sessions have voted and called on the Supreme Council, most of the communities have asked for this bill to be withdrawn. Today, I have a letter with signatures that not only district councils but even children are asking the Head of the Supreme Council and most of them to listen to them. And they asked me to read a letter. "Very often adults like to use the phrase "children are our future." For us who were born in an independent Ukraine, we would very much like these not to be mere words, and this was the basic principle of the existence of society, and for us and our country to have a future. In the ninth class of law, we were taught that the main attribute of each state is the territory — part of the globe with which the nation is historically connected. Today, most of Ukraine’s territory plans to sell. We don't know politics at all, we still have to learn a long time to get a job. However, we are well aware that if we allow trade in our territory to be allowed to destroy Ukraine. Save Ukraine, don't sell land, take care of our nation's future." The children collected the signatures and handed them over to the Head of the Supreme Council. With regard to rights, please introduce a rule on the obligation to resolve the issue in a nationwide referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Next Edit Stapenka. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Batenko, 2363. Please turn on Taras Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u85	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. For a month in the Supreme Council, we are discussing a draft Law on the Market of the Earth. Obviously, in this month of time, I think that society is either more convinced or less convinced of what we're talking about in this room. But, as my colleagues say, and confirms the sociological survey of the last Razumkova Center, that most citizens are somehow against the market for land at this stage of historical development. So obviously, our discussion in the hall is aimed at the firmness of Ukrainian society's conviction that it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill. And our MPs are definitely against him, and they're not going to vote for him. I think that this problem is being discussed in the hall today, and most monofractional deputies don't need it, because they're not interested in listening, in principle, and the committee's head answers the question once and for all. So please put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u86	I'm betting on a vote of 2363. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:33]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2364, Krulko. Do you insist, Ivan Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u87	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this amendment 2364 clearly stipulates that any transaction involving the sale of land to property should be allowed only after the conduct of the U.S. referendum. And they're only running after an active state land cadastre system is set up that's controlled by registration, so there's no raiding, so people don't take the land away. And if in the election of the President of Ukraine, President Vladimir Zelensky was going with a clear programme of the peoples of the government, and the people of the country were going to have a direct democracy, i.e. a referendum, I think that on such a matter as land reform, this referendum should be held explicitly before the adoption of this law. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction requires a referendum before the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u88	I'm betting on the vote of 2364. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:01]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 2368. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our political power, in fact, like the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens today, is against the adoption of this law. And thanks to the discussion that takes place in the Supreme Council Hall, the number of those who supported the opening of the earth market, fortunately, is declining every day. In fact, my amendment, which relates to "Transitional Provisions", primarily to the Ukrainian National Deputies on the impermissibility of adopting this, in fact, in the form of a law-abiding bill, and essentially dangerous to the statehood of our country. This amendment says and actually supports the position of the President of Ukraine that the sale of land to foreigners is possible only after the entire Ukrainian referendum. And the fact that it's not supported by the committee unfortunately just confirms that the bill has a mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u90	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 2368. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:34]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Royal, 2370.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is clearly against the sale of Ukrainian land. We're calling for an all-Ukrainian referendum. Today the Goncharuk government will resign, so let us unite our efforts and veto the Land Act so that we, along with Honcharuk and all nonprofessional governments, do not return to this unprofessional decision. We will join forces and hold a nationwide referendum together. Let's ask people what they're going to tell us about how to stay with Ukrainian land. We will not contradict people’s thinking. We insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum and a veto on the ground. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u92	I'm betting on a vote of 2370. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:57]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 2373, Lubinets. Don't insist. Fries, 2374.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u93	Mikola Tarasovich, good morning, it's good to see you back in the rostrum. Mikola Tarasovich can't hear. It's so good to see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u94	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u95	Mikola Tarasovich, this right that I want to point out, we have very nicely prescribed everything about property rights, but we have forgotten to write about other property rights other than property rights that are subject to state registration. And we didn't limit foreigners to other things' rights, and that could be very interesting rights, for example, like the right of a mortgage, including it could be, and other things that are different from the right of use. So let me stress once again that the next time we accept these amendments in some way, we're going to have to limit it the same way until the referendum takes place. Thank you. You don't have to put it to a vote, either.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u96	I don't put her to the vote. Next. Guzenka, the Dundas don't insist. Gnutenko 2377. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 49th District, Donetsk Region, Gnatenko. I stress once again that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is against the adoption of this law. The number of errors and violations in this law is deplorable. I know that the Constitutional Court also monitors our theatre of absurdity, and I am confident that by October the judges will make a professional legal decision not to exist. And his acceptance will be called stillborn. Therefore, I ask you to put your order to the vote and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2377, please identify and vote. [[11:27:21]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 2383. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u99	Please put to the vote too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u100	Don't insist. 2384, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we ask you: let us, together with the Government of Potteruk today, take this bill on land off the table. This was their initiative, which today, we see, supports the vast majority of parliament -- the "Serial of the People" faction. But we remind you that the President did, and when you went to the parliamentary elections, you promised people to hold the most important referendum in our country. That's why we insist on an all-U.S. referendum. We insist that today, during hostilities, when people die and suffer in the east, when more than 30 million citizens of Ukraine do not receive their legal rations, hold an all-U.S. referendum. I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u102	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2,384 people's deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:10]] For-80 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Next issue is 2385, Kaltsev People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u103	We are lucky: Ukraine – Switzerland, Germany – Spain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u104	Yeah, yeah, I'd like to do it right. I'd like to do it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Now on the right. Well, we were looking at a group of Ukrainians in the League of Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u106	It's an important job when you're considering the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u107	It's very important. Published results. This is interesting for all Ukrainians. Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I want another question raised by farmers, farmers at last Sunday's meetings, which is very important, and what prevents us from upholding this law. And once again, I want to confirm that the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" and I myself, we will not support such a law in such an editorial way, because there is one very important issue that this law does not decide -- it is not created in the state of the State Land Bank, what I think is very important for a state that can perform very important functions, and I will report about them later in another amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Fedorovich. I'm betting on the vote of 2385 People's Deputy Kaltsev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:46.]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2386, National Deputy Schol. Don't insist. The next amendment is 2387, Caltz again. Vladimir Fedorovich, please. Caltz!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u109	Vladimir Kaltsev, Zaporozhye. About the State Land Bank. We are the law. It's very dangerous that commercial banks will get land if farmers or farmers go bankrupt, and these banks can keep this land on balance for up to two years. And I've said in past statements that there are schemes that allow this land to be transferred between banks in the case of interbank financing for these land areas that banks can thus maintain for not 2 years, but more. Thus, the earth’s market may not appear, but there will be very large speculators who will receive very large amounts of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u110	There is a vote of 2387 people's deputies, Kaltsev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:26]] For-79
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u111	For – 79 The decision is not taken. 2388, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, because we have violated the Rules and we do not place a claim on it. Right now, we've come to a very important decision, a committee without Parliament on its own, we don't know if Parliament will support it, except for 14th and 15 items of the Transitional Regulations. I also propose to rule out, but only part four. What's going to be counted next, no one knows. How can I apply now to something that's not counted? If we were to ask for confirmation and I knew it was taken into account, I wouldn't have any questions. What if it doesn't work? I have been asked not to violate the Rules. We are now approaching a process where the moratorium is ruled out — paragraph 14.15. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. If it goes through, I'll take my paper off, if it doesn't go through, how do I know what to do next? So I can't go on proposing, like other colleagues, amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich, I would like to remind you, I understand that the land has taken us a long time: at the beginning of the committee's consideration of this issue, a procedure was proposed that the remedies that were taken into account by the committee would look at confirmation at the end of the discussion. Why? In order to understand that if any of the deviations are supported, the law can be balanced. That was when the hall agreed. That's why we're going to put the confirmations before the vote for the law. Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2388 People's Deputy Soboljeva. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:36]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 2390, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u114	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, please pay the utmost attention to this amendment. I propose that paragraph 5 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 be deleted. Why? Because this rule, which is now in the law that went to second reading, allows foreign legal persons and foreign states to acquire land ownership of agricultural assignments after opening up the land market. So if this was really claimed, including the People's Servants, that foreign citizens, legal persons and foreign states would not acquire ownership of Ukrainian agricultural land, then it would be necessary to vote on amendment 2390 and exclude this paragraph from second reading. If this amendment is not taken into account, my amendment will mean that all the discussions about the fact that foreign citizens and states and legal persons will not grant foreign persons the right to acquire land from an assignment do not correspond to reality. That's why I'm asking you to support my amendment and show me the real face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u115	I'm betting on a vote of 2390. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:07]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2392, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." We first stress that the bill, which opens the market for land, opens up the possibility of selling land, allows essentially the different mechanisms of this law to buy land for foreigners, to be rejected. And the sooner we do that, the better it's going to be to put order in a land relationship. First of all, I stress that this amendment, like the previous one, is aimed at preventing the adoption of this law from being adopted and, if approved, not allowing it to be implemented in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u117	In view of that, you meant. It's off-limits, you can't put it on confirmation. I'm betting on the bill of 2392 Pavelekka. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:33]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 2393, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, we certainly welcome your position that this bill should be considered exclusively in accordance with the Supreme Council's Rules, because it is also important in view of the possible appeal after its adoption and in the Constitutional Court. This amendment, which relates to "Transitional Provisions" in paragraph 14 of Section X, is also aimed at ensuring that the bill does not take effect without what we learn, but what position of Ukrainian citizens, not only in terms of sociological research, which all show today that 3/4 of citizens against the bill, but so that Ukrainian citizens can express their position in a nationwide referendum, because such important things cannot be approved without the will of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u119	I'm betting on a vote of 2393, Pauline. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:09]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2394, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u120	Dear Head! Dear Ukrainian people! "The Opposition Platform for Life", Yuri Pavlenko. We have been insisting for a few days on the danger of this bill regarding the future of our Ukrainian state. We still hope that today may bring about changes in the introduction of this law by the new Cabinet of Ministers, who may be elected today. Because everyone today understands in Ukraine, except for individuals here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that there is a bill without a referendum, without the will of the Ukrainian people, without order in land matters, without perhaps starting to work from today's new Ministry of Agriculture, which will need to be reorganized for at least six months, this bill is criminally approved in these days. Let's put on a moratorium, work systematically.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u121	I'm betting on a vote of 2394. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:40]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Gnutenko, 2395.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u122	Thank you, presiding officer, honourable deputies, present! 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. Legal sciences provide exhaustive examples when referendums are held. This is our case. The referendum is the adoption by citizens of the country of decisions relating to constitutional, legislative, internal and political issues by vote. By making this decision without a referendum, we are going to a legal collapse and failure in general in the state. I would like to stress once again that we have to bring this question to a referendum so that the soul and conscience will not hurt before the people and before our nation. Please put an order to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u123	I'm betting on a vote of 2396. Please identify and vote. 2395, I'm sorry. [[11:41:53]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 2398, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Alexander Ponomaryov, 78 constituency, Zaporezka District. Dear colleagues, the draft amendment to the Code states that restrictions on land operations for foreign companies and non-Ukrainen individuals are not extended to the acquisition by agricultural producers of land owned by such land for rent, provided that it has taken at least three years since the state registration of the legal person who acquires ownership. As for me, this is a very small term, so I propose in section X of the Transitional Regulations in paragraph 2 of part one of paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the word and the figure "not less than 3 years" to replace the words and the figure "not less than 10 years have passed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2398. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:27]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2398. 2401, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u126	In section X, "Transitional positions" in paragraph 2 of section 2 of paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the word and the figure "not less than 3 years" have been replaced by the words and the figure "not less than 7 years have passed." Mikola Tarasovich, we have a question for you. Please tell me, are you planning to review this bill when the director of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy changes because it does not respond today to the requests and challenges of Ukraine that are in our country today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u127	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 2401. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:43]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next to the Royal Amendment. It unites them. 2400. Please turn it on for four minutes. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, dearly present, today is a very responsible day for the whole country: today we vote in favour of the resignation of the Potter. But we demand not only his resignation but also his responsibility. And we demand that those bills and those initiatives prepared by the Government of Pottery also be abolished. The sale of land is an initiative of the Government of Pottery. And why are we considering this today? He needs to be promised and not to go back to that, because we have a very important question. Since April 1, you have started a medical reform that needs to be urgently abolished. Since March 1, we have not been able to index pensions for the people, and we need to work together urgently to index pensions for the people today. We have 67 billion debt on housing and utilities today, and we need to urgently restructure and lower tariffs. Today, more than 3 billion wages are owed, and decisions on paying people’s wages must be made urgently. Dear colleagues, why are you here now? Why do we consider the issue of the land that almost every citizen in our country faces? Humans are definitely against the earth. Last week I was in Lviv, people against Lviv selling land. She was in the Donetsk region, in Kharkivsk, in Zaporzik. In each region of Ukraine, people are definitely against the sale of Ukrainian land. So why is this Parliament, which, contrary to people's minds, is now doing everything to sell Ukraine in spite of promises to hold a referendum? I have thousands and thousands of letters and questions from people who ask you questions, honourable servants, to you who don't go to voters today who don't communicate with people, they don't want to hear people's opinions, but I'm going to read you some of these questions so you can still hear people in our country. And this is where Ludmila Parafilo asks, "Why didn't people give away land that belonged for free?" Why didn't you spoil this land today and give people pies? More than 30 million citizens did not receive pies. Why aren't you selling yours today? You are selling the land that will belong to and should belong to the people of today by law. Crucify the earth first. The second question people are asking today. "Why doesn't Ukraine want to develop its agriculture and village?" - This is Larissa Denisov from Harkow. What are some things that we today do not work together to support our farmers, not to make the right agricultural arrangement? What do we today give to international speculators in the land of Ukraine? But what right do you have? The next question is, "Where is our home land, which belongs to us by law?" This is Nizhin, Alexander Babakov. Ladies and gentlemen, the people have not received their land. And you, a few hundred deputies, want to decide for them today and sell them out. Next question. Natalie Osmansk, Dnipro City: "When will there be a referendum on the ground?" People are demanding an all-U.S. referendum. People demand that their voice be heard. Well, if you don't want to hold a referendum, if you don't want to give pies to people, well, let's dissolve this Parliament and go to the elections. We're going to go today, and we're going to make it clear that you're for selling land, and people are going to pick you up again in Parliament, and then you're going to make that decision. And we are definitely against the sale of Ukraine and against the sale of Ukrainian land. We demand along with the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u129	Thank you. We can move on, yeah. Kaltsov, 2402.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Vladimir Kaltsev, Zaporozhye. Unfortunately, neither I nor my colleagues have the opportunity to reach the fraction of the majority and most of the amendments. all changes in automatic mode are rejected. So we have nothing more than to try to reach out to you and reason with you people. People are absolutely against commercial speculators in the market. I said that in many of the countries that went our way, which formed the land market, this control function, the control mechanism from the state to the land market was given to the government's land bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u131	We can put it to a vote, right? I'm betting on a vote of 2402. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:40]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 2403.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u132	I'll keep going. It is very dangerous to give this function to commercial banks. I said that banks have a lot of opportunities to pass this land on to each other and to support its great time. Bank managers, as well as bank leaders and the rulers of the large latifunds that work in Ukraine, are in most cases the same personalities. And these people will be able to support the land, to resell it over time. It's a function of the state to control this market. If we set up a government land bank, this bank would get land in the event of the bankruptcy of farmers in a very short time, and it was the regulator who handed the land over to the next owners so that it could be processed continuously.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u133	I'm betting on a vote of 2403. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:15]] For-69 No decision taken, no correction counted. 2404, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The Fatherland faction and our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, are consistently opposed to this bill -- in wartime, selling Ukrainian land, as are 73 percent of the people. Please listen to people’s thoughts, to the thinking of the Ukrainian people, to the thinking of our small and medium - sized farmers who are helping to survive our Ukrainian village today: they are creating jobs, within the limits of what is possible, supporting infrastructure. The only thing that the greatholders need is to make a profit from our fertile land. And our small and medium-sized farmers today are doing everything they can to make our Ukrainian village survive. And that's the only way to save children's kindergartens, schools, field homes, libraries. As for the amendment, in paragraph 3 of Part One of Section I of Bill, paragraph 8 is deleted, because this paragraph is not appropriate for an all-Ukrainian referendum. Please place an order on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Vote 2404 of the people's Deputy Dubella. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:48]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next line is 2406, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u136	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Ukrainian People! On the top of that, we stress that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is against the bill. Against the current conditions of opening up the earth’s market without asking the point of view of all Ukrainian citizens. During the past month’s numerous meetings, particularly in Zitomirsk, people have expressed great concern about the possibility of implementing this law, as well as their fate and the fate of their rations, which the authors of the law seem to be so adamant. Because there are no fewer fraud schemes on land issues, and now new fraud schemes are being prepared and introduced, how do they take away their land from people, how do they not pay even what is provided for by this law? That's why we're stressing: no land order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u137	Thank you. There is a vote of 2406 of the Pavlovka People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:21]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2407, the national deputy of Gnatenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Chairman! 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. The word "referendum" has recently become the most popular word in Parliament. And I am sure that as the main legislative body of the Supreme Council itself should initiate a referendum on this issue. We should not be our offspring, then our children should look into our eyes with sadness, selling out Ukrainian land. And I insist on my amendment, and on the basic amendment that this issue should only be done through a referendum. Thank you. Put it to the vote and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Vote 2407 of the national MP Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:28]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2409, National MP Grishchenko. Don't insist. The next issue is 2410, Kaltsev's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ruslan Alexiyovich! Vladimir Kaltsev, Zaporozhye. I refer to the authors of this bill. It's very dangerous to remove the state, and in this bill, the state removes itself from the circulation of the land market on such an important issue as land. All the countries in the majority followed the path of the state’s land bank. Because there are several important functions in the State Land Bank. It's a function of cleaning up the land that goes into the market in case of bankruptcy; it's a function of acting as a faster circulation of this land in the market so that it can go back to the producers and work for the economy and not stay in the hands of speculators.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u141	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2410. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:07]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Edit 2411, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The "Fatherland" faction and our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, are systematically and unequivocally saying that we are against this bill -- in war conditions to sell our Ukrainian land. The Constitution says that the land is the property of the people of Ukraine, and this is possible only after a nationwide referendum is held. As far as the readjustment is concerned. This point is irrelevant to the holding of an all-U.S. referendum and essentially legalizes lands that are privately owned by any, including foreign legal persons who have been registered in Ukraine for at least three years. No, the sale of Ukrainian land to foreigners. Foreigners want to continue to do business on our Ukrainian land, no one forbids it, let them rent to the states or to our people, to the Ukrainian people, and pay an economically sound rent for land leases, or to rent rations. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u143	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2411. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:30.]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. We're continuing our meeting. Edit 2412, Kachura People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is 2414, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I think this whole bill is a platform where we can see the privatization of our country, and we can't talk about it, because it's a possibility to sell two-thirds of the territory of our country. You don't have to go any further than arithmetic to figure out that 42 million hectares, not 42 of them today, but 41.7, of the 62s, are being dumped into the basket. That's all there is to it. It's a language. And that's why I would ask, insisting on the correction, to overestimate and look at it in advance, at the end of the tunnel, where black is going to be. Thank you. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u146	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2414 German national MP. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:32]] For-34 Unfortunately, it's not accepted. The next issue is 2415, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the reporter, we just had a very interesting and productive discussion with Mikola Tarasovich on the bill. And I am convinced that such a discussion needs to be held with every citizen of Ukraine, so that he knows both in fact and in the form of what is most important, the consequences that will come from the adoption of this bill. And I would like to thank you publicly for this discussion. It was definitely not enough before the beginning of the consideration of the bill. But once again, at a positive moment in this bill, I think there are still a lot of risks. That's why I insist on getting ready, and the state needs to be prepared, and every citizen needs to be prepared for what is possible if they agree to open up the land market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u149	Mr. Yuri, thank you for your discussion. It was really interesting, I get it, for the two of us, and for the colleagues who participated with us. And believe that we, both the committee and the majority and many other deputies, honestly, really think that the adoption of this law will give a significant boost to the various sectors of agriculture. And it's this law that's going to be a plus for the village, including for jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u150	Thank you. Are you insisting, Yuri? A vote of 2415 of the Pavlovka People’s Deputy is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:40]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2416, Kaltsev's national deputy. Please, Vladimir Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u151	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I would like to remind the authors of this bill of danger that the state in this bill has virtually removed itself from the market for land circulation. This is very dangerous for the state. Because the State must ensure that the task of food security is resolved. The state has to keep in hand and have a tool like the government's land bank to regulate the market, so that the speculators, both our foreign and ours, can take this market into their own hands because we had a dangerous precedent with privatization of enterprises, certificates that went to the hands of a bunch of people who have big money called oligarchs. The same could come to the market for land, and it's very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u152	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2416, National Deputy Kaltsev. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:09]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2413, National Deputy Batenko. Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u153	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you so much for coming back to my correction. And I want to say that as we communicate today, on this historic day, we hope, with representatives of the future Cabinet of Ministers, we understand that there should be a review of a number of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers in part of what are called the reforms that are taking place today in the country. And that includes the land market bill and medical reform and so on. We had different governments, we had governments that built superlups, we met barges with gourds, we raised up to 40 percent of the country's economy, we built silk roads, we used to walk around the Cabin alone, but nobody thought about the economy. And this is the shortest time this government has ever held in this office, actually six months in their posts. I think that the new government has to show a greater benefit, so in this case we're going to support it. And the amendment that regulates the management of foreign owners, please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u154	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on that. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:34]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2418, National Deputy Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two important issues: First of all, we have a number of important moments. During our amendments yesterday, we noted the absence of modernization processes in the water-based melioralogical sub-complex. Today I also want to point out that we may not have any work done on the recycling and revitalization of grants. I would like to point out that if we're making appropriate land changes, we can get a number of serious structural changes in both the economy and the land issues, and in particular in land relations. Therefore, when such serious ones are being carried out, steps are being taken to establish an area of agricultural land, first of all to address the deep problems that exist in agriculture today and then to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u156	Thank you. There is a vote of 2418 people's deputies Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:02]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2419, the Burmić People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u157	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In this room today, we listen: All of us, almost all of us speaking, are in favor of consulting with the people. All the arguments that point out, and three-fourths that people in a referendum on the law on the land market, but all the arguments are rejected. Today, it has even been read that children write and turn to the Supreme Council. Perhaps the next step will be the appearance of our Ukrainian Greta Tunberg in every area and village. Perhaps you will listen to the children you love. And when they come to the rostrum, we applaud them very much and clap them in the palm of our hand. So maybe we should listen and sit at a round table and consult with people, and get information to take away these tensions that are in society today?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u158	Thank you. I'm voting 2419 people's deputies, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:34]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2420, the Burmich People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u159	During our communication and discussion, I had a lot to talk about the land market with representatives of the "Serve of the People" faction. I was curious to hear that most of the people I was talking to, they're against the Earth market, they're in favour of a referendum. Because when they communicate with the electorate, they understand the mood of the people. I'm asking, why is that? Why you. Well, you know, you know, that's where they told us. Honestly, I don't understand. I don't understand and I don't want to. Because I understand only one thing: the interests of the Ukrainian people. What he wants is me and our faction. So I urge you to ask me a question about the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u160	If you don't mind, I'm going to ask the 2420 question that you have in mind. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:02]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next. Amendment 2421, People's Deputy of Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Alexander Ponomaryov, 78 constituency, Zaporezka District. Dear colleagues, I propose in section X, "Transitional positions" in paragraph 3 of part one of paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land: "The violation of the requirements of this paragraph is the basis for the recognition of the right of ownership of the land as invalid, as well as the grounds for the forced alienation of the land." Thank you for your attention. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u162	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2421 People's Deputies of Ponomarov. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:09]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2422, the national deputy of Plačkovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u163	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! This amendment of mine is aimed at preventing the creation of foreigners through the well-founded individuals of so-called single-day companies. So I propose, if I may, that we allow land to be owned by legal persons who have been carrying out their activities in the last 10 years. Why? Because let us, however, ensure that history, business reputation, and experience in agriculture are just the ones that will prevent the actual looting of national wealth. Please support and put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u164	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote of 2422 national deputy Placzkowa. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:17]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2423, National Deputy Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for being able to prove your point. But once again, I emphasize that most Ukrainians hope that while we're pushing these changes, the mind in this room is winning -- and yet we're going to put that question to a referendum. As far as I'm concerned. In section X, paragraph 14, "Transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, add a paragraph to the eighth sentence: "The land area of agricultural destination for which the court has decided its compulsory alienation shall be sold at land trade." Please put this amendment to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Vote 2423, National Deputy Gnatenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:19]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2424 national MP Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u167	49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. I'm asking you to take this into account, too. It refers to the following: Section 14, paragraph 7, of the “Transitional Provisions” of the Ukrainian Land Code, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Code, which states: “The violation of the requirements of this paragraph is the basis for the recognition of a right on the basis of which ownership of the land of an agricultural destination is acquired, the invalid and compulsory alienation of the land in the judicial order”. Please put this amendment to the vote and also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u168	It is the vote of 2424 People's Deputies of Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2426, Puzanov. Don't insist. The next is 2427, Bogdanic. Don't insist. Next up, 2428, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u169	Alexander Kaczyny, "The opposition platform -- For life." Under section X, "Transitional positions" in paragraph three, one paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land should read as follows: "Infringement of the requirements of this paragraph is the basis for the recognition of an offence on the basis of which ownership of the land is acquired invalid, as a result, for the forced alienation of the land area." Dear colleagues, once again, I repeat that "The Opposition Platform for Life" against the adoption of the land market in the form it is given, without the referendum of the Ukrainian people. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u170	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2428 people's deputies of Kacny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:46]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2429, national deputy of Kaltsev Volodymyr Fedorovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I remind you that our faction, the Opposition Platform for Life, will not support this bill, as will most factions in this session room. Because, first of all, this bill does not solve one of the important problems: it's to form a class of small and medium-sized farmers, farmers in the countryside, who have a national idea, which is to be Ukrainians first. The second is that this bill does not solve the issue of alienation from the land market of speculators in the market of land in the person primarily of banks and masters of large latifunds. Thirdly, he doesn't solve the question of price for those people who want to sell their assignments, and they have to get very much money to move into the city. So we're not going to support these.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u172	Thank you. There is a vote of 2429 people's deputies, Kaltsev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:16]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2430, National Deputy Soboljev. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u173	Thank you. The situation is similar. In view of the fact that we have not issued a motion for confirmation to the committee after the moratorium has been removed, I ask you to delete a paragraph corresponding to the 14th article that defines the procedure for the allocation of land to foreign citizens, as defined in the final edition of the committee: only after the referendum. So I would like this item, which defines exactly what we should do with property, if foreign citizens acquired it until such time as there is no such prohibition, I have a request to support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u174	Thank you. I'm voting for the 2430 People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:28]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2431, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, I repeat once again that our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, and the faction of "The Fatherland," and 73 percent of the Ukrainian people, are in war conditions against this bill for the sale of Ukrainian land. The sale of Ukrainian land must be decided by the people, as the Constitution says, and only after the holding of the entire Ukrainian referendum. With regard to the amendment, the paragraph is of no value to the holding of the U.S. referendum and essentially legalizes the lands already in the lease, emphitheus, including foreign persons. Once again, I'm talking about "no" -- selling Ukrainian land to foreigners. They want to do business on Ukrainian land -- let them rent to the state or its owners, to the Ukrainian people, and pay an economically sound price for renting pies. Please put an order to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a vote of 2431 national MP Dubella. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:55]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2432, National Deputy Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, my amendment is supported by the idea that was put in place. And I come out of what's unacceptable when you've settled the issue of forced land confiscation in people. You know, you're going to have to go through the villa, you know what a villa is, look at the photos of our former colleague. And second of all, about. Look who's going to be dealing with the issue of compulsory -- executive power, the Cabinet of Ministers. And foreigners are already starting to buy land. And we say the President has promised something. Promises are dots. And the law must protect property on the land of citizens. And finally, I want to say to you, look at the book of the Great Dragon in front of the Chigirin, and read what the Andrusian Peace is, and the next was what the Warsaw Treaty was when they sold out and took the land. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u178	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Vote 2432 of the German People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:29]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2433, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u179	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." We are consistent in our position. And it's very good that this debate is now taking place in this room, it opens its eyes, and today it can show every Ukrainian citizen that unfortunately this bill does not address the stated goal of protecting the Ukrainian right to land, allowing the development of the village and agriculture in Ukraine. That's why our proposal is very pragmatic and realistic: to adopt the Law on Referendum, to hear people's opinions, to prepare the state, and to continue to adopt the most effective, most effective decisions to develop the country, to develop land relations, to make everyone who works on earth understand and feel that he owns his land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u180	Thank you. A vote of 2433 of the Pavlovka People’s Deputy is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:56]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2434, National Deputy Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u181	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. Edit 2434 refers to the following. I ask in paragraph 14 of Section X of the Land Transition Code for Ukraine to add paragraph nine of the following content: "It is prohibited to purchase or acquire any other way of ownership of agricultural land to take effect under the law on the All-Ukrainian referendum and the holding of the All-Ukrainian referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." So once again, our entire faction and the people of Ukraine are turning to Parliament: a referendum is the main thing to be and what we must support in this matter. Thank you. Put it to a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u182	Thank you. Vote 2434 of the national MP of Gnatenka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2435, National Deputy Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u183	Dear Sir, dear colleagues. Yesterday in the argument of my amendments, the whole block of amendments, I have repeatedly stressed that the introduction of agricultural land is possible, and in our view, it would be useful, after a nationwide referendum. Yesterday, I brought the data from the Kenyan International Institute of Sociology and the Sociology Group of Ratings. Today, we have new data. This is the Razumkova Center, which conducted appropriate sociological research. And according to them, 68.9 percent of Ukrainian citizens are in favour of holding a referendum on the circulation of agricultural land. 72 percent of Ukrainian citizens who would go to this referendum oppose it. These are data from an independent sociological center. And most importantly, 48 percent is actually half of Ukrainian citizens are in favour of blocking the draft law by political parties called "The Opposition Platform for Life" and "The Fatherland" to stop the implementation of this circle of land. So please support the amendment and please vote in favour of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u184	Thank you. There is a vote of 2435 people's deputies Koltunović. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:41]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2436, National Deputy Burmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u185	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I, like my colleagues, do not give up hope of reaching our hearts and common sense of power. And the arguments that we're making, and other colleagues from Parliament, about the need to hold a referendum and a round table with people, with agrarians, with those who work on the ground, will still come to you, and maybe today's decisions, which will be at 16 o'clock about the intention of getting out of the nebula of power in which it is located, may also be happening. So this work that we've been doing for several months and we've translated it into spring, we hope that they will hear and hear people, the Ukrainian people, and they will make decisions in accordance with their interests, according to the state, according to their independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u186	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2436 people's deputies, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:11]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next item is 2438, Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, this is very specific, it applies. Nevertheless, let us add legal certainty to some notions of this bill as a whole. So I propose "abzac fourth part of first paragraph 14 of Section X of the "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Code of Land," which reads as follows: "The term "agricultural producer" is used in this paragraph in the sense established by Ukrainian legislation." This will eliminate possible inconsistencies at least with the terminology of the bill. And I also want to add that our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is still taking a firm stand against this bill, and we ask today, and we continue not to look at it, and take it out of consideration at all. Thank you. Edit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u188	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2438 national deputy Placzkowa. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:32]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The amendment is 2437, the People's Deputy of Ponomarov. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u189	Thank you. Thanks again. Dear colleagues, once again I point out that our faction has consistently opposed the opening of the earth market, at least in that form. Now I'm going to ask you to look at my technical changes in the project that we're looking at. In paragraph four of the first paragraph of section X, “Transitional positions”, of the Ukrainian Code of Land: “The term “agricultural producer” is used in this paragraph in the meaning of article 14, paragraph 14-1, 235 of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine”. To understand how often the legislation is changing, I propose that this paragraph be edited: "The term 'agricultural producer' is used in this paragraph in the sense of the applicable legislation of Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u190	Thank you. Well, I wouldn't say it's technical -- it's a major readjustment. I'm putting her to the vote. 2437 People's Deputies of Ponomarov. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:58]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2441, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I speak for the transcript and for the record about article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which stipulates that all intentional actions aimed at harming, you hear, the code says, to the detriment of the sovereignty of Ukraine, is a national betrayal of Ukraine. That's the first one. And that's why I want all those lobbyists and initiators and drafters to know that history will come back to that question. We put Ukraine not only at the crossroads but at the disintegration of our nation. Don't we understand that? Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, read, think back, there may not be a road. And unfortunately, our people will suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u192	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The only thing I see is about the tenth of your paper, which consists of one word: "exclusion." But I'm putting her to a vote. There is a vote of 2441 German national deputies. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:44]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next line is 20. Excuse me. 2442, National Deputy Gnatenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. I ask you to make such amendments. In Section X of the Transitional Regulations, paragraph 14 should be supplemented by the following paragraph: "The right to land (pai) is prohibited to the statutory capitals of agricultural societies prior to the holding and establishment of the results of the All-Ukrainian referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." If we see today that the different centres of expertise are giving 72 percent that don't want to support this law, I have this question: how is it planned, by a large majority, to go against this human issue and get most of the votes in the session room? I ask you to put this question to the vote and to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2442 National Deputy Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:07]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. I'm going to make the next amendment before I announce it, and I want to address the national deputy of Gnatenka. There's three of you that's practically identical. I understand that the argument will be the same. Can we just give it one minute and put it three in a row, right? Thank you. Please, any of these lines, 2443, for example. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u195	Yeah. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment applies to 2443. I ask in section X, paragraph 14, of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine to add the following paragraph: "Introduce land (pai) rights to statutory capitals of agricultural societies may be made effective by law on the circulation of agricultural land, and if the outcome of the Universal referendum approves a decision on the possibility of purchasing land for agricultural purposes." I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that many nations have sold their land, and then other mistakes have taken this land back. I do not want Ukraine to go on such a wrong path that we repeat those mistakes. And please remove the matter from the Supreme Council's consideration of this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u196	Thank you. So I can put these three in a row, as we agreed with you? I'm betting on a vote of 24,433, the national deputy of Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:47]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2444, National Deputy Gnatenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:06]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2445, National Deputy Gnatenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:24]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2447, National Deputy Kaczyny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again that the Opposition Platform for Life is against today's land market, because we still have no register. We don't have a review today. We don't have anything prepared today to protect the farmer. And those 10,000 hectares in one hand provide the opportunity for the rich and foreigners to gather all of our land today. So I'd like to say first of all today that when we change government, we hope that the policy on the agricultural direction of the land market will change with regard to the sale of state-owned enterprises. And if the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is created, I would like to, and our entire faction insists on leading this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u198	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2447, the national deputy of Kacny. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:56]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2448, National Deputy Soboljev. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u199	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, what these changes to the Earth Code are all about, is that they are miserable eleven articles. And it's only one thing: how through special schemes can we resell the land of agriculture, and it doesn't matter to whom, because there is no actual terminology approach. For example, in the old law there's a concept like "a farm worker." But this concept has completely changed over the last tens of years. The authors did not even offer to do so. So my proposal is just to rule out part four of the fourteenth paragraph, so that there's no interpretation that "a agricultural producer" can be interpreted by anything and anyone, including aliens. Unfortunately, I don't see the committee counting or counting the hall. That's why I'm calling for my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u200	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2448, National Deputy Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:26]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2449, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, our leader, Julia Timoshenko, the Fatherland faction, 73 percent of the people of Ukraine are definitely against this bill on the sale of Ukrainian land. Please listen to the Ukrainian people, to the district councils, to the communities that have called on the Supreme Council to withdraw the bill. Please listen to our middle and small farmers in Ukraine, who are helping us to survive our Ukrainian village today, and help save our children's gardens, schools, libraries, farm and midwifery in the village. With regard to the amendment, the paragraph is of no value to the holding of the U.S. referendum and essentially legalizes the lands already in the lease, emphiteussis, including foreign persons. Once again, we strongly oppose the sale of land to foreigners, let them rent land to owners of the Ukrainian people and to the state, and pay an economically sound price for pies. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u202	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote 2449, People's Deputy Dubella. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:52]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2450, the Kunaev People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is 2451, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u203	Me, me!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u204	Please, I can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u205	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you, fellows of honor! I'm going to start by saying that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is decisively opposed to selling Ukrainian land. The opening of the earth's market in the way that this law provides is a crime against the Ukrainian people. The issue of the sale of agricultural land is a strategic issue, and it should not be resolved in the cabinets of power, it must be decided by the Ukrainian people. I demand an all-U.S. referendum on free-purchase and land sales. Because according to article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the earth is the treasure of the Ukrainian people, so the people must decide this right, not 423 national MPs. Thank you. That's exactly what I'm working on, so I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u206	Thank you. Vote 2451 of the People’s Deputy Aliens. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:14]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2452. People's deputy alien.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u207	Thank you. In the continuation of the decisive and unbreakable position of the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" I demand to hear people. Don't be afraid to learn the opinion of our people, hold the All-U.S. referendum -- and you will see that this bill is not supported by more than 70 percent of Ukrainians. Farmers and peasants all over Ukraine will tell you that they want to be masters of their own land and will not allow foreigners to buy Ukrainian land for cash. The Law on the All - Ukrainian Referendum must be adopted. In addition to the fact that Ruslan Alexiyovich had just announced yesterday that such a law already exists, we will be able to see it on the Supreme Council website. So I don't think it's going to prevent us from adopting this law, then holding an all-U.S. referendum, getting results -- and then just raising questions about the circulation of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u208	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 2452 People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:33]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2453, National Deputy Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the presiding officer that my right has now been dismissed, Mr. Chairman, yes, then when it comes to committing a crime, it is up to me to inform who does not understand. That's the first one. And when I'm asking you to include the amendment that I'm referring to in my footnote, it's about not allowing people to take part in land management and not allow for arbitrary use, management, land administration, including land plots for peasants, farmers, everything else. And that's why I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u210	Beautiful. There is a vote of 2453 German national MP. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:04]] For-69 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken, Vasil Ivanovich. Next issue is 2454, Pavlovnko People's Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u211	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Ukrainian People! Yuri Pavlovenko. The Opposition Platform for Life is consistent in its actions to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens to live and work on their land. And that's why we're clear in our actions and positions against this bill. I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleague to the fact that we are considering this bill in the context of a deep economic, social and political crisis. The introduction of these laws under such conditions is an opportunity for many fraudsters to take advantage of this situation. That is why it would be advisable to find consensus in the hall by Thursday, to agree, to withdraw, to amend this law, to form a daily order of laws that are now awaiting Ukrainian citizens who are committed to peace and protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u212	Thank you. There is a vote of 2454 of the Pavlovka People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:37]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2455, the Lukashev People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is 2457, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u213	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 59th constituency, Frost, Donnelly. The faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" consistently says that we are against the sale of land and we are about to hold a referendum first so that people can figure out what they're going to do on earth and on earth. Edit: Add to Section X of the Land Transition Code paragraph 15 of the Ukrainian Code: "Until 01.01.2025, it is prohibited to change the target destination of land owned or used by citizens and legal persons for commercial agricultural production and farming, except for the alienation of land for public purposes." Thank you very much and please support my revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u214	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2457 people's deputies of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:12]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2458, National Deputy Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u215	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'm talking first of all to our voters about the benefits offered by the People's Political Party in the draft Law on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Purpose, in fact, it doesn't appear that way, because even in the case of the introduction of land circulation and the sale of land, you're going to have an excessive transaction cost for each of you. What are we talking about? I've talked about this a few times, but I'll repeat it in detail. The cost of notarial services in terms of transformation, the cost of developing technical documentation before buying-sales operations, paying taxes and gatherings -- all of these things are, they have to be, and we're not going anywhere. Hence, experts estimate that between 40 percent and 60 percent of the value of pie can go according to these costs. So we realize that the remainder that's left is appropriate, it won't let you use even the nominal amount that it's supposed to be. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u216	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2458 national MP, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:46]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2461, National Deputy Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u217	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to point out that the introduction of agricultural land circulation could undermine the implementation of a number of directives that we have and the technical regulations that are reflected in the Agreement on Agriculture and signed under the Association Agreement with the European Union. In particular, Directive 91676 and more than 20, I have calculated more precisely, 59 regulations and directives of the European Union relating to agriculture relating to land relations, including water use there, is a directive on nitrates, if more specifically. And so from this point of view, the appendix that goes to chapter 17 of "Agriculture and Rural Development" has to take into account the corresponding changes and we have to pay first attention to the fact that we can lose the pace we've already had in this direction. Please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u218	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 2461 of People's Deputy Koltunović. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:05]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next line 2462, National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u219	2462 and 2463 please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u220	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 24,622 people's deputies, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:35]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2463, National Deputy Koltunović. I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:55]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2464, National Deputy Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u221	Dear Chairman, I ask you to put my appeal to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u222	It's from the others. We're going through. Okay. I'm betting on the vote of 2464 People's Deputies of Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:31]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2475, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u223	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to pay attention and think about everything that's going on in this room right now, because, literally yesterday, they published the results of the social studies of the Razumkov Center, which can't be blamed for being our fan club, our political power. But there are published data that half of the Ukrainians support our actions to review this law in this way, and they call it blocking the adoption of the law. People support any possibility of making it impossible to pass this law. And 72 percent definitely against the introduction of the land market. And 76 percent will come to the referendum and say no to your policy. And in fact, I'm going to read 2475: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure proper action against the non-return of foreign exchange."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u224	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. There is a vote of 2475 national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:08]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Nestor Ivanovich, that's where your fundamental and systemic rights go. Maybe I'll give you two minutes, you'll talk, and we'll just vote them out one by one? Because they look a little so systematic together. Okay. Three minutes, right? No, it's not. No, we go in turn, each one? That's why I'm telling you, but it just got more systematic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u225	Mr. Chairman, I will insist on my right. Because the following changes differ and relate to specific issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u226	Please correct 2476.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u227	Thank you. But thank you for your offer and your respect for all of us. We propose in this amendment, Section X of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine to supplement paragraph 15-9 with the following content: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is implementing measures, including by participating in the creation of agricultural processing enterprises to increase the level of processing of agricultural products." In this case, we are in pain that Ukraine is not only an exporter of raw material, or primary product. And so that we can recycle and stimulate those who want to re-manage our agriculture and export goods, not grain. This will increase our weight in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u228	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Your vote is on 2476, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Unfortunately, the committee rejected the amendment. So I ask the room to identify and vote. [[13:29:10]] For-66 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. The next issue of 2477 is that of the same respected author.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. She also offers an interesting innovation. In particular: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, individually or jointly with other participants, can create the necessary specialized financial institutions to ensure the lending of farms. This prevents the right of administration and the decisive decision-making of such financial institutions to persons who are not citizens of Ukraine." That is, not only the right to own, but also the right to take part in decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u230	Clearly, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u231	Very many farmers are now concerned that there may be a variety of abuses by banks. That's why we're offering it to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and it's exclusively creating the conditions for providing additional financial credit under the control of the state in the interests of our farmers. And that's only possible after the U.S. referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u232	Yeah, right. There is a vote of 2477 people's deputies, Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:49]] For-69 69 everything. Sadly, the Hall of Nestor Ivanovich was not convinced. 2478. Maybe this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u233	You know, the main thing we've been able to hear is the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u234	That's what's important!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u235	It's more important than giving in to conjuncturing from overseas and selling out Ukrainian land. Therefore, we propose the following amendment: Section X of the Transitional Regulations to add paragraph 15-7 to the following sentence: "The National Bank of Ukraine ensures the receipt of farm holdings that process up to 2,000 hectares of agricultural land, loans at an effective rate of no greater than five years of the NBA account rate." So we had a proposition that if a referendum approved a positive decision on the land market itself, 200 hectares per Ukrainian citizen, and if they were to unite and form a collective of farms, the NBA was to provide them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u236	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. It's the 2478 People's Deputy Schuster vote. Oh, my God, I'm sorry! Nestor Ivanovich, I'm here. National Deputy Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry, clear. [[13:32:35]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2479, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u237	Thank you. I'll offer Savik the right to a replica. You know, I'm used to it, I've got two cases like this: Savik Schuster himself and "Big Change" Nestor Petrovich. Well, there's Nestor Ivanovich, but that's what we're going to do, I understand. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u238	It's up to you, Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u239	But the amendment of 2479 is not a little bit about this: we propose in Section X of the Transition Code the following amendment: "Introduction of land into legal persons who are directly or indirectly controlled by a non-resident is only allowed after five years of free circulation of land." And "The State Institution in Transitional Positions acquires the dominant right to acquire a share in a legal entity that owns the land of agriculture." But that's only after the agreement and the corresponding decision in the national referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u240	Got it. There is a vote of 2479 national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Unfortunately, the committee refused. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:07]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2480, written by Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u241	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It also applies to section X of the Transitional Regulations of the Earth Code, namely: "Before the introduction of free circulation of land, the Department of Ministers of Ukraine ensures the creation of an authorized state institution from the purchase of land for agriculture. This institution is financed by funds exclusively from the State budget of Ukraine, has a majority of the right to buy land from the country and is exempt from taxes, taxes, rewards, and so on. The financing of land acquisition costs takes place at the expense of the state budget and/or part of the institution's own funds." What is it? It's a matter of solving the matter if it's absolutely necessary and the landowner's desire to sell his pie, it's sold exclusively to a state institution that's controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and used funds exclusively for the state budget. That's us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u242	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. There is a vote of 24,80 people's deputies, Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:39]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2481, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u243	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This correction is a little shorter. It also refers to chapter X of Transitional Regulations, namely: "The conduct of all-inventory land-based land-use inventory with data input into the State Land Cadastre is an essential prerequisite for the free circulation of the land-use market." Thank you for your attention. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u244	Thank you. And I immediately put her to the vote, the order of 2481 national deputy Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:31]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2482, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u245	Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you once again of our principled position and victory in this room. We have already won without allowing the earth’s Law to be adopted. And today, at 16 o'clock, there will be another victory of the Ukrainian people and the opposition, which immediately after the adoption of the State Budget Act, which has made our citizens' lives worse, demanded the resignation of this irresponsible government, which I hope will take place today. And with regard to this amendment, I would like to point out that it also applies to chapter 10 of the Transitional Regulations, namely: "Agrochemical field passport is a mandatory document in the transfer of ownership of land that is intended for farming or for holding a private farm. The maximum length between previous agrotechnical passports may be not more than 5 years." This is done to preserve the quality of our earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u246	Thank you. I'm betting on the 2482 vote, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:05]] For-68 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. The next issue is 2483, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u247	I honestly don't understand why our citizens don't have much support. But all of this remains on the conscience of greatness, as well as on the conscience of today’s authorities. The following amendment also applies to chapter 10 of the Transitional Regulations, namely: “Early areas of land-based agriculture of up to 200 hectares that have been transferred to the non-resident’s inheritance shall not be calculated when the boundary is established when the requirements of article 130, part 2, are passed on, nor shall the natural non-resident person be extended to the inheritance of land. If the size of such land does not exceed 200 hectares, this land area shall not be taken into account if the provisions of part two of Article 130 are applied." But then, I want to remind you that it has to be implemented exclusively by the resident of Ukraine, and we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u248	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Your vote is 2473. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:40]] For-67 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry. Next issue 2484, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u249	Thank you. The following amendment also applies to the possibility of obtaining ownership by a non-resident. But it can be only after the U.S. referendum, if the will of the people of Ukraine is to do so. Other cases are ruled out. Therefore, we insist on considering this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u250	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u251	Nestor Ivanovich, this amendment shows the apparent dissonance between many statements of referendum and what is written there. And it says that 10 years later, without a referendum, non-residents are allowed into the market. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u252	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, somehow, was underworked. I'm voting for this 2484 People's Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. You've heard the committee's reasoning. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:07]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Nestor Ivanovich, the extreme in this block is your amendment. You're welcome. 2485.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u253	Of course, I look forward to the next block in the hope of convincing my colleagues of greatness. But I'm asking you to read the transcript of my position on the previous question. We responded to your wording and made adjustments. But our principle is a position that, by the way, is defined in the next 2485 amendment, which redefines our principle of a position that any issue of land sales, as well as any possible right to property by non-residents, may be solely in one case. And I quote this amendment: "After the U.S. referendum." No action is possible before doing so. And that's the principle of our position, and that's what the Ukrainian people are supporting today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u254	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2485, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:42]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 2486, the People's Deputy of Frost. Don't insist, all right? (Noise in the hall) I don't see Mr. Frost's window. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u255	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to say the only words: referendum, referendum and once again referendum. Because today, by socializing, 76 percent of our citizens in Ukraine are willing to come to a referendum and vote for their choice: sell land or not sell land, be the market of land, or be not. Amendment 2486. In Section X of Transitional Positions, paragraph 6 of paragraph 15 reads as follows: "If the outcome of the U.S. referendum does not authorize the decision on the free sale and purchase of agricultural land, the action of the ban on the purchase and sale or other means of alienating land and land areas as defined in sub-paragraphs "a" and "b" of this paragraph shall be maintained until 1 January 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u256	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2486, the People's Deputy of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:24]] For-60 The decision is not taken. I wanted to ask you, because the following revisions -- they're close to the content -- can you take this argument into account and put it in order? It's okay, isn't it? No, you can't. Then it's 2487, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u257	These are very important corrections because they apply to the referendum. If there is no referendum, people need to hear what we're talking about today. So, number 2487. In Section X of Transitional Positions, paragraph 5 of paragraph 15 reads as follows: "If the outcome of an all-U.S. referendum approves the decision on free sale and purchase of agricultural land, then the purchase and sale or other means of alienating land and land particles (pay) as defined in subparagraphs "a" and "b" of this paragraph shall be made on the following day after the date of the official declaration of the result of the referendum." Thank you. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u258	I'm betting on a vote of 2486. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:53]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2487. It's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u259	It's probably 88, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Yes. Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. In Section X of Transitional Positions, paragraph 4 of paragraph 15 reads as follows: “Agreements (including trusts) have been made for the implementation and establishment of the results of the all-U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land and land parts (pails) defined by sub-paragraphs "a" and "to this point, in part their purchase and (or) the sale and other way of alienation, and also in part the transfer of rights to alienate these land areas and land rations to the future are invalid from the time of their establishment (contestation)”. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u260	Thank you. 2487, please identify and vote. [[13:47:19]] For-64 No decision taken, no correction counted. 2488.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u261	Dmitri Alexanderovich, probably 89. And 87. I'm on my way. 89th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u262	89th. Okay. 2489.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Section X of Transitional Positions, paragraph 3 of paragraph 15 should be amended as follows: paragraph 3 of paragraph 15 should read as follows: "Buying and selling or other means of alienating land and changing the destination (use) of land owned by citizens and legal persons for commercial agricultural production, land plots allocated in kind (in the area) to owners of land particles (pai) for the maintenance of private agriculture, as well as land particles (pai) other than inheritance, exchange (mines) in accordance with this Code." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u264	I'm betting on a vote of 2489. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:39]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2490.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u265	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Today, all people living on the line of separation hope that, with our Cabinet of Ministers changing, and under this Law on the Market of the Earth, we will have the right conclusions and will no longer return to this shameful law. In section X, "Transitional positions", paragraph 2 of paragraph 15 reads as follows: "(a) the purchase and sale of land for agricultural purposes of state and municipal property."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u266	I'm betting on a vote of 2490. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:44]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2491, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u267	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Moroz Volodymir, 59th constituency, Donetskina. I want to stress that our faction is against selling land. And I want to support it. to support 2491: In Section X "Transitional positions", paragraph 1 of paragraph 15 should be inserted in the following line: "It is not possible to carry out and establish the results of an all-U.S. referendum on the free sale and purchase of agricultural land." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u268	I'll bet the vote on 2491. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:49]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Is he next? 2495.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u269	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Alexander Ponomaryov, Zaporozhye district. I very much hope that the party of power will listen to the demands of society and hear people who have signed numerous letters of appeal to the President, the Supreme Council, the government demanding to give up plans for the sale of land until legislation is responsible for the interests of Ukrainian citizens. They should express their opinion during the referendum. I therefore propose to amend the draft Earth Code: "Division X "Transitional Positions" of Ukraine's Land Code to add a new paragraph 15 to the following content: "Conferred to be invalid contracts which were made during the ban on the sale and sale of agricultural land and for the execution and establishment of results." Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u270	I'm betting on a vote of 2495. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:19.]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 2496, Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u271	People's MP Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, honourable citizens of Ukraine, allow me to quote the following: "In Section X of the Transitional Regulations, paragraph 6 of the following edition: "If the outcome of the U.S. referendum does not authorize a decision on the free sale and purchase of land of agricultural destination, the prohibition on the purchase and sale of land and other means of alienating land and land (pail) as defined in sub-paragraphs "a" and "b" of this item, in part of their purchase-for-sell and other means of alienation, and also in the transfer of rights to the alienation of these land plots and land rations (parts) to the future shall be maintained until January 01, 2025." Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u272	I'm betting on a vote of 2496. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:30.]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2497.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u273	Dear Chairman, in principle, 2497, 98, 99 and 2500 are similar to the content. I'm going to ask them to put it to a vote, and now I want to take it all over again with the following kind of friendly advice. Now is a very good time, a very good time to enforce this law. In a few hours, you plan to approve the new Cabinet of Ministers. I understand that the main reason is because the ratings really fell seriously. Because you're going to replace Pottery with Schmidt, you're not going to raise those ratings in any way, because you're going to leave the same course that you're going to leave. If you abolish this law now, it will benefit not only your rating and presidential rating, your political power, and it will preserve the national acquisition -- the land of Ukraine in the hands of the people of Ukraine, and it will be a great benefit to the Ukrainian state. I would be very grateful if you would listen to me. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u274	I'll bet the vote in turn. 2497. Please identify and vote. [[13:55.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 2498. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:17]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 2499. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:35]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2500 can be put to the vote, yes? Please identify and vote. [[13:55:54]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2501. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 2514, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, thank you. You and I are looking at 2,500 amendments today. Dear colleagues, 2,500 times "The Opposition Platform for Life" stressed in this room that we cannot sell Ukrainian land, that we should hold a referendum, that we should ask people what they will tell us, what orders we will follow. Well, people from all over the country write, honourable, well, first question, Ludmila Parafila, Kharkiv: "Why didn't people give away land that they owned for free?" Well, how can you sell this land without having to waste land? You're selling what belongs to the people. You're taking people's last. We insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum. We insist that we cannot sell the land. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u276	Thank you. Can all the amendments be submitted for confirmation? 2514, please identify and vote. [[13:57:45]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 2516.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you on behalf of the people. Because it's people who write letters to you, turn to you. But unfortunately, they don't hear any answers from the "ministers of the people." Then we'll take this mission from the Opposition Platform for Life to ask you people what they're worried about first. Victoria Yvashchenko's question: "Why does power go against the will of the people, knowing well that the people are against? Are you enemies of the people?" So ask them. People ask, are you enemies? Dear colleagues, why are you inciting people, why are you today creating opposition in society? Well, let's banish Potter today, well, let's cancel this Law on Earth with him. We insist that an all-U.S. referendum be held. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u278	I'm betting on a vote of 2516. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:11]] Z-62 For 65. The decision is not taken. 2517.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u279	2516. Honorary colleagues, Natalia Gasenko, Zaporozhye city: "Why does Ukraine invest in its agriculture to make the country the base of Europe's livestock, trade in agriculture and increase its well-being, not in foreign countries?" People, people in this country are smart. People ask you the right question. Why is there no answer? Why is there no response to the questions that people are asking you today? Mikolayevna (Herson) asks: "Where's the land bank? Where's the money that farmers are going to buy land?" It's all a lie. People don't have money, they're gonna buy all the speculators. Therefore, it is impossible to sell the land today, just a nationwide referendum. Please place an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m0.u280	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno, for the meaningful report. Unfortunately, we cannot put to the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I remind you that at 4:00 a.m., an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin.
