ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? I'll remind you, the registration is done with the green pros or the left-hand side. No, no, it's just a color that looks really good on the board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. Please register. [[10:10:20]] There are 321 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on May 15, 2020, 30 years later, a permanent parliament began its work — the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.S.R. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I now mention your predecessors. We hope that in time we too will be remembered with you. 30 years ago, the first Ukrainian Parliament actually started to work, which established the basic things that we have today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I hope they will continue to be preserved, and will be the good traditions that should exist in every parliamentary-presidential republic. So let us remember all that was in our history, learn lessons, and move forward. How do I greet you again? [[Applause]] Thank you. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Members of the MPs and groups are requested to sign up. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that UNICEF, which is a structural unit in the United Nations, has made a public statement that in Ukraine, poverty has risen sharply from 27 percent to nearly 50 percent, especially child poverty. This goes beyond the limits of norms and rules. In addition, you know very well that most of the doctors who worked with COVID didn't get a 300 percent bonus. You know very well that the pensioners who were promised thousands of dollars did not receive this payment for a thousand dollars did not have an index of the modernisation of pensions. And even in low-income families, we barely voted on the law to take the rule that they can't pay less than the minimum standard of living, part of it. But all of this has to do with the fact that there is no money in the country. For many months now, we have been underincome from 25 to 35 percent of monthly income. The budget is falling. And already the 120 billion that the budget has made, unfortunately, is not enough. The minimum deficit per year of tax evasion is about 300 billion dollars. That's the minimum. This means that all the country's finances are broken. But at the same time, our temporary investigation team, which you and I have created together, has been investigating some of the NAC's "Naftogazu" figures on corruption in tax evasion. I want everyone in this room to hear me now. 72 billion dollars is not paid by NAC Naftogaz to the budget, and that money is partly on their account. One of our actions is and we can get just as much as the International Monetary Fund promises from the Naftogazu NAC. But to do that, it takes eight deputies from the People's Service on the interim commission of inquiry to vote in favour of investigating the corruption of the Naftogazu NAC. It's all in your hands. I'm now turning to the "Serial of the People" faction. Give the directive to your deputies who are part of the interim commission of inquiry, not to sabotage, not to block the question of investigating the corruption of NAC Naftogazu, but to vote in favour of it and to budget 72 billion, to pay doctors, pensioners, children, agrarians, to anyone who can. It's in your hands. One operation is 72 billion in the budget, and you don't need any IMF. Do this, and you will confirm that the era of corruption is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, please tell us how this could have happened that doctors on the front of the fight against the coronavirus do not appreciate, respect, or protect the government. How could it have been that almost nothing had been done with what the doctors promised in the videos? It's just that for now, and then, on unverified information, 14 regions have paid 300 percent of the allowance that we took with you in this room, and it's only for March. And now for the third decade of May. Our proposals, our joint partnership with you, with the insurance services of the medical community, you, the monotonous, have distorted your alternative bill. They put a doctor around their finger who takes much more responsibility for Hippocratic oaths than some do for the oath of a national MP. To obtain insurance, you suggest that the doctor die. The law removes the key rule of payment in case of infection when the coronavirus is opposed. Another of your abusive demands is disability. But no one has ever been disabled in the whole world since the coronavirus. You're afraid of what you can't, in principle, and you don't care that 1 out of 5 infected in Ukraine right now is a doctor. It could be a miracle. Suddenly, the president will veto the bill and return it with an offer to be honest with the doctors. Unfortunately, my friends, I don't believe in miracles. So I urge you to register the bill. He's ready. I thank the Voice and the Fatherland, and they have signed with us. And this bill on compulsory medical insurance in case of coronary disease. If the authorities did not protect the doctors, the authorities are more obliged to pay for the consequences of their own indifference, negligence, and incompetence. And I emphasize that we as opposition do not stay away. In the emptiness of officials, we find and support any rational grain. Our team has placed 115 thousand protective suits in two dozen hospitals, bought and passed tens of thousands of high-efficiency tests this week from the Swiss company La Roshe. But as an opposition, we cannot do everything in our power, with the absolute majority and absolute responsibility, the responsibility for protecting Ukraine. And along with those who lost their jobs, with small and medium-sized businesses, we're hoping for authority on a support package, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! The situation that our country is in today, I think Parliament should have two priorities to consider. First. This is the support of native medicine. We have virtually miraculously found ourselves on the brink of a breakthrough in the extermination of native medicine by prior authority under the executive responsibility of the minister of health and all those prime ministers and presidents who ruled over that authority and pushed the country into a medical chasm. Today, our task is to create anti-crisis plans and help medicine to help all of us. This requires a really anti-crisis plan, which will include increasing the financing of medicine in general, and increasing the wages of doctors, and restoring the rapid restoration of the sanitary epidemiology service. And there are many other things that will save Ukraine. The second issue that should become a priority for Parliament is our country's exit from quarantine. Why I'm not talking about the organizational arrangements that the government has announced that are relevant to how to open a facility or where we can go now. I mean this real support for the economy that suffered the most in this epidemic. We've been shown a lot of anti-crisis plans here -- vivid presentations, annotated actions, but unfortunately, it's all on paper. In today’s anointing situation, the unemployed received it from 2 million unemployed people in the country, as many as 26,000. Today, on a widely distributed loan program of 5-7-9, they've received as many as 270 million dollars per country. It's nothing. So we need to develop, listen to the government to report on how the effective real financing of our economy will be carried out. And our faction insists that these two questions be asked on Friday for "the government's hearing hour" and take them seriously, not to consider this empty agenda that is being proposed today, which in no way reflects what people expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Osadchuk. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I came here today to tell you that we are being lied to about a very terrible crime. Two days ago, Minister of Health Maxim Stepanov, who was all baptized by Maxim Costume, lied to us one more time. You've all heard that costumes have come and will be shipped to Ukraine by medicine. Well, I want to tell you, I was on duty yesterday, no costumes came. Instead of 732 thousand costumes to come and protect our medics, 29. We are simply lied to in the face at a time when a hundred health - care workers are infected every day in Ukraine. It was only yesterday that the strikes in Harkow were huge when the medics went out and said, "We have nothing to defend ourselves." Do you remember how scared you all were when COVID was found in the Supreme Council? You all went here, most of you were wearing suits, wearing gloves, going to do plr tests. Well, there's nowhere for doctors to go to do plr tests, they have nothing to protect. Those who are now not in the central district hospitals, but in the district hospitals, they have nothing. And the Ministry of Health is actually committing a crime today because they first bought suits three times as expensive. They bought them for 488 dollars, while the British government bought us the same suits as they bought us international agencies for 300 dollars, they bought 300 dollars, and we bought 488. You think the British government is buying painter costumes, as Maxim Costume told us, no, they wanted to make money on it first. They made money. And now they're committing a crime because even in earned suits, on these earned suits, they start killing, mass murder does not bring them in. They're now, I don't know, sewing in China while our naked medics are fighting the coronavirus. You know, we only have one way out of this situation in Parliament. All of us must now begin to raise questions about the replacement of a health minister. Today, the Voice faction will start collecting signatures to get this man out of office. And each and every one of you, I urge you to sign this decree. Because if you don't sign it, you're going to be an accomplice to this crime. And when you go to the hospital, the doctors, each of you, will ask you what you've done to protect them, whether you've signed a decision to move a minister who steals and kills, because it's not possible to call it mass murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u9	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The situation with the coronavirus in our country has shown the real state of our nation’s medicine. It is sad that, as of May 19, to this day, the medical community has not received a statutory payment for April. And the problem is that medical people do not know by now when and how much they are fully accounted for. The situation is also compounded by the fact that the expenditure paid for March was borrowed from the fourth quarter of 2020. These are funds that are earmarked as a subsidy to provide insulin and other important drugs. Therefore, it is imperative that we look for resources for these programs to work in the fourth quarter of this year. I personally appeal to Health Minister Maxime Stepanova to resolve this situation and to take it under personal control. Another outstanding problem is the outbreak of the Coronavirus on the Internet in Kiev. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Social Policy to the requirement of a comprehensive examination of such institutions throughout the State to ensure that all necessary facilities are provided. Because there are patients and, above all, children with nowhere to go and nowhere to isolate themselves in case of illness. The next problem is the second stage of medical reform. Medical reform is clearly needed, and in the first stage fair principles were really implemented, but from April it started the second stage, which left hundreds of medical institutions unfunded throughout the country. Of course, you can't keep large rooms where there's no treatment where there's no patients, but closing the maternity wards is totally insane. The district hospitals should be equipped with a basic medical facility, and this should not even be discussed. The first month of reform at the secondary level showed a number of problems. First of all, these are tariffs that don't exactly match reality. They are calculated, not from the calculation methodology, but from the available funding. Therefore, the National Health Service of Ukraine needs to calculate the real cost of medical care as soon as possible. The other one. It's the financing of infectious and psychiatric hospitals, anti-tuberculosis institutions. It is wrong for them to apply the principle of treatment. There's no precalculation of the number of infectious diseases, and the COVID-19 pandemic confirmed that. That's why our trust group calls on the government to review the concept of medical reform and make appropriate changes, to take into account the specifics of each type of disease separately, the qualifications of the doctor and the area where the hospital is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the national MP Irina Miroslavni Konstankević, MP for the Future. Excuse me, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u12	Good day, dear friends, respected colleagues, respected Ukrainian society. As we know, this week is the first plenary week of quarantine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine met for its next plenary session to show the class how Ukraine should work under quarantine, which is actually not working, and we have talked about this over and over and over again. But actually now in quarantine, in the face of the pandemic, Ukrainian doctors on the front continue to fight and actually continue to fight on their own without the proper support of the government, but with the unconditional support of Ukrainian citizens. So we're going to focus once again on the fact that Ukrainian doctors today have not received adequate payments, that they have not received adequate compensation at district and district levels, especially district hospitals, and that there is no such supplement. And just now, the Ministry of Finance, and you don't have to throw it all the time at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance is just about to start conducting proper tenders in this area. We are drawing the attention of the government to the critical situation that today lies in energy. We're actually stopping the power grids -- the cheapest electricity, and we're making the most expensive electricity, we're raising electricity for industrial production. And I think this is a critical situation that should be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The parliamentary group "For the Future" along with the faction "Patochishina", along with other factions, has prepared a draft decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry, and only a fraction of the majority of "ministers of the people" is effectively blocking the creation of such a TSC, evidently afraid of repeating the situation with the creation of the TSK on the condition that Mr. Umanski claims that the fear of investigating corruption in energy and today's acting energy minister Mrs. Buslavec has allowed her not to submit her representatives and form her properly, and to begin the work of such a temporary commission of inquiry. We demand that such a temporary commission of inquiry be established shortly at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Guys, I think we have a lot of work to do today. And 30 years ago, what Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov said this morning when he began the work of the 12th call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, the first democratic call, by showing an example to the whole of Ukraine, how in the conditions of dictatorship in fact the Soviet Union could be broken by the majority, the monotony of communist, political opposition. And we have also begun to consider the bill on political opposition. And we believe that, as part of the bill on political opposition, we should return to this Parliament to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules with all the participants in the negotiating process in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also point out that when we talk about Crimea and deported people, we should not forget our own deported Ukrainians, Ukrainians who were exported in the 44-51st years from Ukraine to the territory of Poland. And our request to the House of Deputies for the Future to put a bill concerning the movers into the agenda, this is number 2038. Let's support our own citizens and our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u14	Comrades, good afternoon! I have two calls to you today. First. You all know that the last week, one of our deputies was committed to his building, in fact, an assassination and abandoned Molotov cocktail. I would like to urge all of you to support an appeal to the law enforcement agencies to intervene immediately, to understand and to protect the political position of the national MP. And the second. We had yesterday's meeting of all the factions' heads that the Supreme Council's apparatus did not actually have the ability to effectively sterilize the premises during the break. So there's a proposal on Tuesday and Thursday to change the work schedule of the Supreme Council from 10th to 12th, then half an hour to break for disinfection and then from 12:30 to 15. I hope that such an offer will find support for all the national MPs of all factions. And I ask Mr. President of the Supreme Council to vote. put it to a vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is up. Let's get to work. A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, as you know, yesterday the entire country celebrated the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Crimean Tatar genocide, and the day before yesterday was the Day of Victims of Political Repression. And it was on a private YouTube channel yesterday that Ukrainian citizen Gordon interviewed Russian terrorist Hirkin. In the meantime, an interview with the well - known Mrs. The fact that this interview came out yesterday was evidently a common and understandable mockery. The fact that this interview occurred in general, taken by a Ukrainian citizen and then reprinted by the Ukrainian media, shows that these media resources directly contribute to terrorism, since any promotion of terrorism is a contribution to terrorism and is a basis for a criminal offence. Dear colleagues, some say that Dmitri Gordon was doing this on behalf of Ukrainian intelligence to send the materials to The Hague. What to send to The Hague is a story that Crimea is not guilty of Russian aggression, a story that Kirkin personally decided to come here to Ukraine, because there was such a bad Ukrainian power here, and that he would take Kiev and Odessa? Ukrainian security forces are asking the Ukrainian journalist to justify the Kremlin? Maybe so, but then it's not Ukrainian intelligence. And, dear friends, it's not journalism. Can you imagine that after the Holocaust, an interview between an Israelite journalist and Achman appeared in Israel? He was not interviewed, kidnapped, and tried in a fair manner. And those who wanted to talk to him were ordinary traitors. Can you imagine that in a democratic society, the special services are recognized for using journalists? First of all, there's a question of journalistic ethics. And what's interesting to us is how many other Ukrainian journalists are recruited in Ukrainian special services. Let them give a direct and concrete answer. Or were they recruited, not by Ukrainian intelligence, but by Russian? Or maybe when these so-called journalists are involved in political activity, they're also doing it at the expense of Ukrainian intelligence? All of these are a number of issues that our faction of European Solidarity directly put to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the Prosecutor's Office, to all the Ukrainian public authorities. I'm grateful to the Voice faction, with which we took this break. I am grateful to all Ukrainian patriots. Because we, the responsible Ukrainian citizens, are the only ones who will not give peace of mind, materials, promote terrorism in Ukraine, encourage terrorism, and show a human face.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. However, a number of heads of MP factions and groups were offered to change the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, really, that was the format of the meeting. And that reduces the total operating mode by 3 hours, and actually reduces our time of work by only 1 hour. Therefore, there is a proposal to put the matter to a vote and decide the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to take a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the matter. Next. A proposal that also took place yesterday at the meeting and at the Conciliation. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, Denise Anatolyovich, you are very much. Dear colleagues! Alexander Rafkatovich, there was a proposal, it sounded on the Conciliation Council, and then at a meeting with the heads of the MP factions and groups, it was also discussed, it was to remove today's issue of the so-called question of dual citizenship. Is there no objection? None. Can we take it off? Okay. So let's move on to the question that I just spoke about changing the schedule of our work. The following schedule of work was proposed: we start the meeting at 10 to 12, then from 12 to 12:30, and from 12:30 to 3: we continue our work. By the 15th. Tuesday and Thursday. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put something else to the vote right now. We're going to be working around the clock. If no one cares, that's what we're going to vote on right now. Ready to vote? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[10:40:14]] For 324 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been invited to consider the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 2835-9). I put him to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2835-9). Please support and vote. [[10:41:10]] For 223 223. The solution. Let's see the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I understand, there has been a demand from one of the factions to re-vote. That's why I'm asking. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's wrong? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, come on, one minute from the factions. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u19	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u20	Good afternoon. I want to give the word to Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u21	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u22	Dear Head, Mr. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I would like to remind you that this is your personal image when the Supreme Council does not go back to considering the relevant regulations and bills. You started it, and we support it. And I ask you not to violate the Supreme Council's regulations. That's the first one. Second, colleagues. Why the opposition does not support it. Because you're putting many of the Lobby laws into the agenda, and what the opposition is offering is simply not being inserted. In the past, all the bills registered by the deputies were actually placed in the agenda, so this brought the hall together. In our context, when we see you stretching lobby laws, and the laws of opposition stand out, the Fatherland does not support. Therefore, other opposition factions do not support it either. Let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u23	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u24	Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u25	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction voted in favour of replacing the agenda and, more specifically, for the new calendar plan. But I too have the view that the Rules are Rules. If that question didn't go away for the first time, the point of putting it back on again, the more out of voice, the more wrong it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u27	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I am primarily addressing Ukrainian citizens who are watching us on television and listening on the radio. You know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine under your headship, Mr. Head, has shown the principle of compliance with the Rules when there is no political desire for any "hotels" and we are clearly in compliance with the law. Well, that's the main thing. See, when daytime is formed, there should be a proportional representation in the daytime order. Why is it that out of the 49 bills included in the agenda, only 2 from "The Opposition Platform for Life"? We have clearly and clearly agreed with you that we are following the recommendations of Mr. Pete Cox's European Mission that daily bills should be presented in proportion to the number of factions. Our faction accounts for more than 10 percent of the total composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so if 49 questions, ours should be at least 5 bills. I'm asking you to hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u29	Chigos Ahtem.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u30	Please hand over Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u31	Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u32	Historical parallels. Back in the days of Speaker Litwin, when he didn't want to sound some bad guy, he would broadcast it to the First Vice-Speaker Martinyuk. Don't say it again, my friends, it's a communist experience. And, really, if it's said that twice a river doesn't go out, it doesn't have to be voted out today. And it is necessary to put in place daily laws such as the Civil Code, which the President wants to destroy the country in the same way and to give Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens, but to put in order the daily laws that the opposition demands. It is a disgrace that there is no regulation today, according to the Supreme Council to the rocking of the deportation of Crimean Tatars. It's a shame there's no TSC in the Sheremet case when we can't protect our veterans and volunteers. It's a disgrace that all the opposition factions can't put any bill in order of the day. That's why we're against this order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u33	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u34	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Our group did not vote in favour of this decree, because a number of the bills that we keep talking about, we insist on them, including the Conciliation Council, are not included in the agenda. With regard to small and medium-sized businesses, the use of RROs is supported by the agricultural sector. That's why we have consensus boards that we have to harmonize the agenda with all the MP factions and groups. So I support my colleagues, let's move on the Rules, agree on the agenda of all factions and groups, and go to the session room for a vote, as defined by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, have they all made a statement? According to the Rules and what we have just voted on, these changes apply when we talk about today’s agenda, only the BSS Act, everything else has been included in the agenda of the day’s session. So we move on to the next question of order of the day. No notes? Let's go. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 13.05. 2020 on the adoption, in second reading and as a whole, of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities (registrations 2571-d-P, 2571-d-P1). The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Is there ant edwardovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that when we took an oath from the Ukrainian People's Deputies, we swore to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, not Western creditors. And right now, our nation is facing a serious dilemma -- forgetting our own laws, going over our own constitution, or finally showing our own subjectivity in the international arena, and demonstrating that all the key decisions about the development of our state are being made right here under the dome of the Supreme Council, not somewhere in the vast ocean offices. You have already allowed the sale of Ukrainian land during the economic crisis and during the growing food crisis in the world. You are allowing the second stage of medical reform, which has released over 30,000 health workers in two months that could save thousands of Ukrainian lives. You're talking about supporting the business by lending. You want to destroy our banking system. You're saying that cooperation with the IMF is a very good signal for our international investors, but I want to remind you that we've been working with the IMF for over 10 years, but the level of foreign direct investment is still above the critical, low indicator. Dear friends, I want to tell you that the anti-bank bill is a very big mistake. Please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u37	The word for the report is given to the head of the committee. Oh, no, the second reporter is Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the critical violations of the constitutional procedure during the examination of the 2571st Bill required a mandatory third reading procedure, which I strongly insisted on and filed a formal application in advance, where I made a detailed statement. Now that at all stages without exception there have been a detailed record of the numerous facts of falsification and falsification of documents, a systematic violation of the rules of the Rules and a constitutional procedure for the consideration of the bill, I specifically identify this for the transcript and require the Head of the Supreme Council to return the process to constitutional order. My official statements to the Head of the Supreme Council, the official statements made by other deputies, in particular the Secretary of the Parliament's Finance Committee, have made it impossible to vote in favour of this law in general. Ignoring the facts of fraud, the egregious violations of the Constitution and the laws is the way to break. The deliberate absence of mandatory conclusions from the Scientific and Expert Office and the Anti-Corruption Committee strongly confirms that this law is known to be anti-constitutional and carries a huge component of corruption. Therefore, regardless of today’s vote, the Supreme Council has no legal right to sign an unconstitutionally accepted document that is completely unconstitutional in content that cannot even be called law. The signing of such a law and such a document is unacceptable and shameful. Do not ruin Ukrainian parliamentaryism and the constitutional principles of the Ukrainian State. And in general, my colleagues, I would like to point out to you that we have allowed too much external governance in the processes of the Ukrainian authorities and transferred the most important functions of control over state institutions -- the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, the NAB and the National Bank -- into the hands of foreign financial speculators who are now setting rules for the game and our political system. It's a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u39	The word is given to the head of the committee of Calchenk Sergey Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u40	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting discussed these two draft regulations: 2571 d-P and 2571 d-P1. The Committee adopted conclusions that the chairman of the plenary meeting on violations of article 48 of the Rules was neither the national delegate of Dubinsky nor the national deputy of Polakov. Similarly, no statement was made to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding violations of article 48, part three, fifth, of the Rules on Violations during Discussions, Voting, but draft annulment orders were said to result in the vote. However, even the names of these draft regulations do not correspond to the provisions of article 48 of the Rules, since these rules may invalidate the Supreme Council’s decision to adopt an entire law, regulation or other act, rather than abolishing the results of the vote. In summary, the regulatory committee on each draft regulation therefore adopted a decision: recommending Parliament to determine how to vote on or reject the adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, National Deputy Lopushansky Andry Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u42	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, do you know what Kiev and London have in common? Well, of course, apart from the London rain that's going in our Kiev today? The symbol of London is Big Ben, and the symbol of Kiev is Big Ben, because in fact, for the last few months, our whole lives have been spinning around Big Benny and his desire to regain control of Private Bank. And today we're seeing with you, watching another series of Benya and his friends, when we're blocked from signing a law that will not allow the former owners of banks to return banks to themselves through the Ukrainian "fairest judicial system in the world." In fact, what is involved in this law? That a bank is not a hot potato that can be thrown from hand to hand. Imagine that the State was granted a land right, regardless of how, and built a hospital on this area. Tomorrow the court admits that this area, the state got it wrong. So, can I take the hospital now? No, of course it's absurd. That's the law and the dot. But do you see what the fight is after him? 16,000 rights, now make the decree that you can't sign it. All of this is a struggle of former owners, primarily Private Bank, for this bank. But look who are the authors of these rights and these regulations. It's all "ministers of the people." The "ministers of the people" are the authors and the former, and the operatives of these decrees, 14,000 rights out of 16,000. What does that mean? That means there's a war going on between Colomoysky and Zelensky inside the "Serve of the People" faction, and the hostages have taken the whole country. We have to stop this. We have to finally put it on that dot. Of course, we understand that there will be another series in the Constitutional Court. I hope that we can bring this issue to an end and that Ukrainian taxpayers' money will not disappear into nowhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Demchenko Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Comrades, good afternoon! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Colleagues, what a bill that was voted by the Supreme Council. First of all, it's not Benya, it's not Schmenya, it's not everyone else, it's a fan. Do you understand? Those aren't the words for us first of all. And second of all, it's not in this room. This bill for me is a violation of the independence of the judicial system in the country. You see, colleagues, well, I've said more than ten times that when we have an explanatory note accompanying documents starting with the fact that a bill has to be adopted as a result of some subjects using an imperfect judicial system, we have a decision to make. Colleagues, it's an encroachment on the independence of the judicial system, on the decisions of the courts that have been adopted and have become legally valid. We do not understand that the decisions of the courts should be sued in the higher institutions of appeal, in cassation, please. Do we have, here in the Supreme Council, to review the decisions of the courts? What else do the drafters say, the National Bank and the Deposit Guarantee Fund? They say that the entities, banks, in this case, used the judicial system as a quasilegitistic tool that runs counter to their efforts in court. Can we call the court system a quasi-legitimate tool, colleagues? Let's destroy the judiciary at all. Why does it even exist, do you think, if we don't respect it, if we're trying all the actions of the judiciary to destroy new bills? And I'll add. Well, I don't know, I understand, maybe I'm the voice of one in the desert, but we have the voice of the relevant experts in the expert institutions who have specifically indicated that this bill violates numerous articles of the Constitution, the bill restricts the power of the court in the exercise of justice, a colleague. Once again, if it is not just a word for justice for someone, but it is something of the soul, please vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u45	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'm in shape first and then essentially. What might these decisions be about? The fact that one of the most important bills that directly depended on the security of our country, both financially and generally, was violated or not violated by the rule of law. We had a lot of discussions in this room, in meetings with the Head of Parliament, in expert environments, whether this bill could be adopted faster. I repeat that the Voice faction was ready to vote in favour of the bill both on the basis and in general. But there was a decision in the room and, in my personal opinion, from the beginning to the end, this bill was considered in accordance with the Rules, for which I am grateful both to the committee and to the Parliamentary Heads and to all of you who have followed the rules of law. It's in shape. Now, let's talk about the substance. We had many discussions: good law, bad. You know all the positions of the Voice faction that claimed that we would vote for this law independently, whether it is the IMF requirement, whether it is a requirement of international partners, or whether it is our Ukrainian work, because we need to strengthen and improve banking legislation. And the position of many business associations and associations of banks says that it was the right decision. And now we urge you not to block this decision, cancel this decision, and finally do what we promised the voters, namely, transparent legislation that protects our citizens, and primarily protects security, including our financial country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u47	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, what did London and Kiev have in common, besides the rain that was today? This is Mrs. Valeria Gontareva, who has destroyed the Ukrainian banking system and is now hiding from persecution in London. And he tells us from there, "Boys, get the hell out of here. I committed a crime, but I didn't want to do anything. I broke the banking system, but I didn't want to do anything." Previous colleagues here said that we were chosen to protect the security of the country. That's true. But we certainly weren't chosen to break the Ukrainian Constitution in the most brutal way. I have repeatedly mentioned that this law violates a number of articles of the Constitution. This law violates the basic principles of the trial. I repeat that. Colleagues, the basic principle of the trial is the effective protection of the violated right. And if the courts have already established that the National Bank has taken the bank illegally, if the courts have found that these actions have apparently violated legislation, and the bank has not yet been eliminated, why can the owner not have control of the bank? I don't get it. And once again, it's not about Private Bank, it's about breaking the banking system. I do not agree with everything that my colleague Demchenko of the "Serve of the People" has said here, but I reiterate that the basic principles of the process are being violated by this bill. This law is unconstitutional, in fact and in form. And that's why those who voted in favour of this law help former private bank owners in court to get a decision in their favor and get huge compensation at the expense of the Ukrainian budget. That is why we support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u49	Demchenko Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u50	Microphone. Thank you. Right on the line. Gentlemen, my last name was said to disagree a little. I want to say that, in this case, Mr. Vlasenko agrees with me, because we on the Committee of Legal Policy have tried many times to ask this question about the bill in accordance with its position in the Constitution. Do you think the decision has been made? None. For nearly six months, the bill was kept with the Committee of Legal Policy and no subcommittee had considered the bill at all. Moreover, if you look at today's position as Attorney General of Venedict, she pointed out directly that the bill in question was to be considered, not on Mr. Getmantsev's committee, but on our committee of attorney-general, the Committee of Legal Policy, because it contained all the necessary signs, namely the change in the court's professional laws, which are the expertise of our committee and should have been considered. So, colleagues, once again, unconstitutional law is unconstitutionally adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u51	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Is there no reason for anyone to want to speak? Yes. I see, Coltunovich. Who else? Now Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u53	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Opposition Platform for Life is going to vote in favour of this motion, and in due course we were against the vote, when we voted against the anti-banking law. Why did we vote against it? Because they want to legitimize the activities of the National Bank, they want to legitimize total poverty, they want to make that devaluation of the national monetary unit 3.5 times legal, that raising the bill to 8, and that was 30 percent in time, to make it the right decision and so on, and so on and so on. And to those of the colleagues here who are manipulating that they're not giving us credit, I want to tell you that we have over 600 billion extra dollars this year, half of which are external and half of them internal. So we don't have to say by one billion from the IMF or two that we have to declare the national banking system of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on the lifting of the results of the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13.05. 2020 on the adoption, in second reading and as a whole, of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities (registration number 2571-d-P). Please identify and vote. [[11:08:56]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Voting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13.05. 2020 on the adoption, in second reading and as a whole, of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the operation of banking regulation mechanisms (registration number 2571-d-P1). Please identify and vote. [[11:09:43]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to clarify the signs of individual crimes in the field of service (registration number 2621). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:10:29]] For 259. Decision taken. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, came into force in 2014 to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which made it very difficult to qualify individual crimes by officials and gave them the opportunity to carry out their activities without penalty. Thus the actions of an official may be classified as a crime under certain articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine solely in the event of material damage. Infringements of immaterial character, violations of human rights and of citizens, public security, public order, a weakening of authority, the prestige of public authorities or local self - government cannot be held accountable. That is why the Head of State was introduced to Parliament and defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to clarify the signs of individual crimes in the field of service (registration number 2621). The bill proposes to amend the footnote to article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to provide that the conditions for the classification of crimes provided for in articles 364, 364, 365 and others are substantial damage, particularly immaterial. Parliament's approval of this decision will help to correct existing shortcomings in the qualification of individual service crimes, promote the maintenance of human and civil rights and freedoms by officials, ensure public security and public order, strengthen the authority and prestige of public authorities. In view of the above, on behalf of the legislative initiative subject, the President of Ukraine, I ask that you support this legislative initiative of registration number 2621. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement in the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement considered at its meeting a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine, number 2621, amending article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to clarify individual crimes in the field of service. The history of this bill is that in 2014, by adopting the amendments to this article 364, a number of crimes that today cannot be criminalized were decriminalized. The Supreme Court has also repeatedly pointed to this in its conclusions and decisions. Accordingly, without repeating the content of the bill, which consists in changing the footnote, the adoption of the bill will allow for the improvement of the criminal code and ensure the uniformity of judicial practice in this category of crimes. That is why the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 2621 as a basis. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u59	Please sign up from factions and MPs: two in favour, two in opposition. Vronov Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u60	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Lord Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! This is a vital bill, since past changes in article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code have actually enabled unscrupulous officials, including corrupters, to avoid responsibility. Why should material wealth (money) be the only major damage? Are material assets (money) more valuable than life, health, and the rights of citizens? Why have past convocations created favorable conditions for ministerial servants to avoid criminal liability? There are many instances in life where officials abuse their position of service, act in their personal interests or in the interests of third parties, and thus violate the rights of citizens — people suffer. So far, article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in this way, I think, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and we need to change that. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I very much ask you to vote in favour of Bill 2621 in order to restore the rule of law and justice in the field of service and to protect life, health and the rights of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u62	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Alexei Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u64	Alekseus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the changes to 364 articles and a series of other articles were accepted in 2014 as visa-free conditions. I would like to remind you that the main principle of legal certainty is, especially when it comes to changes to the Criminal Code, an article of the Criminal Code, which is proposed by this bill to change the objective side of the crime scene. Today, it is determined that the objective aspect of crime is a crime committed by a ministerial servant that has resulted in material harm that exceeds a hundred untaxed minimum of citizens. This is a perfectly legal definition, and it is a hallmark. Changes are proposed to blur this legal definition, and we will have no qualifications. So the faction "European Solidarity" is not going to support this bill, and if you make changes, you have to define exactly why a person is drawn to criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u66	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u67	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national deputies, all those who hear us! In fact, the changes to article 364 "The Abuse of Power or Service" introduced in 2014, somewhat paralysed the work as law enforcement agencies, and produced other jurisprudence. I agree with the position taken by the committee head, who said that both the courts are in place, and the Supreme Court is proposing to improve this article and partially return to the previous edition. This will enable all those who have violated the requirements of articles relating to abuse of power or official status to be able to be severely punished according to the requirements of applicable legislation. The Fatherland faction experts analyzed the president's proposal and the committee, and we support the need to amend article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, but accept it as a basis, and we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u68	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u69	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. I'm sorry. I just didn't expect you to come along.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, this law must be supported; the faction for it will vote in the first reading. But please tell me, are these issues that we are discussing today the most important issues for the country in terms of overcoming the consequences of the pandemic? Today, we demand answers to questions about the protection of the physical and financial security of our doctors. This is the question that we should consider first today. Today, look, in low-income conditions, we don't allow people to work properly, and we don't do anything to provide them with funding, state support while they're quarantined. The credits we're hearing about are virtual, because the National Bank of Ukraine doesn't care what we do here. They will become independent of us in a matter of hours. But unfortunately, they will also become independent of Ukrainian citizens. Why? Because that's what your uncle needs. So who do you serve, the distinguished "ministers of the people" – uncles behind the ocean or the people of Ukraine? Therefore, we today demand that we establish a daily routine that would justify our meeting in extreme conditions, and that we do not impose the lobbying laws that are now inscribed in the order of the day. We need to think about our people today and about our medics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with the motives of Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Aresonkov, I see, with motive. And then we move on (please wait, Victor Vasilovich), and then we move on to the vote. Right? Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this bill. It's kind of simple, legal, technical, and law enforcement. But this bill also gives them the opportunity to twist the hands of anyone in this country who has anything to do with government bodies or bodies that today, including Parliament, represent people. In fact, the bill changes the key story. If you are involved in a criminal process and want to be held responsible or forced to do something, you should have shown earlier that you have done some material damage to the State or public authorities, or to people, or to businesses. And to date, you add the formula that you have the ability to do non-material damage. And the intangible damage will be chosen for the investigator’s consideration: how immaterial the damage that you could have imagined by your actions or words and by whom to do the damage. You can't vote on that. It's a repressive mechanism that allows law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the discussions that are taking place around this bill. Most are determined that it is important that today the practice of applying 364 articles as it worked before 2014. But once again, we're talking about that the written standard of today is not entirely correct and that allows lawyers to treat it differently. So we made that decision. The "Trust" group will support this bill, but before the second reading of the request to work and qualified to write clearly, it is perfectly understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to clarify the signs of individual crimes in the field of service (registration number 2621). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:25:06]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the System of Innovation of Ukraine on Software Policy and Territorial Distribution (Registration No. 2521). It's a second reading. Please come to the rostrum of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich. Tissue, please invite me. Alexander Vladislavovich, there's a little room waiting for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u76	The land's stalled. Excuse me, colleagues. On January the Council adopted the Law on Innomination in its first reading. Let me remind you of history. Since 2016, the budget has spent over 1 billion dollars on financing innovation. The effect of this work has raised many questions. There's no big audition, we're spending money. So Minkult prepared a proposal for a new approach that would allow for speaking to Ukrainian citizens living in temporarily occupied territories. And this, as you can see, is not English. There will also be an opportunity to use ground - language channels. In March, Nakrad changed the concept of the language of this channel called Smoke. In test mode, this is now being done for transmitters near temporarily occupied territories in Crimea and in Donbas. This is the news, the morning program, and the entertainment content that all the leading Ukrainian television channels provided for this channel. We have to take reality into account. We need to win an information war for the people, for our people. So taking advantage of the possibilities for our citizens to be able to get information from Ukraine seems much more useful. The committee discussed the proposed amendments that practically all concerned the obligation to speak programs for 50 percent, for example, in English. All the amendments were rejected by the committee. We offer to adopt the law adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u77	In the second reading, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u78	In the second reading. In the first reading, but in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, we're going through the paperwork. Edit No. 1, Vjatrović. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Princess, number two. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u80	Thank you. The amendment proposes to remove the position of the bill, according to which the software policy agrees with the authorized authority, or ministry. The legislative requirement to reconcile the software policy of innovation with the ministry looks like censorship. According to article 34 of the Information Censorship Act, any reconciliation of information is a censor. That's why we're putting into legislation a position that a state in a ministry can influence the language's programming policy. Please take into account the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u81	Correction rejected. There are different ways to reconcile software policy. For example, in a social language, this policy harmonizes with the Supervisory Board, in this case with the authorized body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u82	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 2 of the Princess. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:22]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit 3, Condratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u83	Thank you. When we're talking about changes to the Act on the Innovation System in Ukraine, we're talking first of all about the features of the function and the meaningful fulfillment of this channel. So, to my deep conviction, we're talking about creation, when we talk about the creation of a national regional television channel, which is called to perform social functions and financed from the state budget, then, to my conviction, as well as to the beliefs of many experts and opposition deputies, it should be just apolitical. Therefore, my amendment 3 expressly prohibits the "Dim" channel from supporting political parties or other political associations, prohibits giving air time to broadcast political advertisements, deploying an agitation about a referendum and so on. This is especially true before the local elections. And based on the specifics of the situation, the ideas of speaking on this channel, I ask you to support my work. This will also help opposition factions to support this law in their second reading. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u85	With all due respect, Mrs. Oleno, since it is a matter of speaking in occupied territory, it is obvious that some of the things involved in promoting Ukrainian ideas in these areas should also be foreshadowed. This edit excludes this possibility. So she was rejected by the committee. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u86	I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the People's Chamber of Condratiuk. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:20]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next amendment is number 4, Sumar. Don't insist. No. 5, Vjatrović. You won't insist? 7th Amendment, Kulinich. Oh, I'm sorry. Princely, 6 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u87	Thank you. The amendment proposes a return to the deleted rule of law, which establishes that at least 50 percent of the language is spoken, and innovations are made into English. In fact, today we "killed" innovation, it doesn't exist. We suggest we leave it at that. Because the drafters of the bill said that programs are produced in Ukrainian and other languages as needed. Today, even before the adoption of this bill, innovation has transformed the language license, and instead of innovation, we have an entertainment channel in Russian for state money. This license has already been redesigned. In considering the bill on the committee, understanding the destruction of innovation and the creation of a Russian-speaking channel on its basis, it seems that for the occupied territories, we applied for at least a minimum amount of Ukrainian-language programs. But all these committee corrections were not supported. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u88	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote number 6 of the People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:01]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 7, Kulinich. Don't insist. Eight lashes, Condratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is about filling the content of the "Dim" channel, which is content. And I think this has to be not just an entertainment content, but I suggest that it be an informational, informational and science-enlightenment message that has to be at least 50 percent of the total weekly volume of telephony. Because if this amendment is not supported, it is, in fact, in general, contrary to the basic essence and the tasks of the channel, television in Ukraine, because it is in fact an objective, complete, timely, impartial, comprehensive, balanced information, as described in article 6. So I'm asking you to support my work, too, which says that 50 percent of the talk should be directed to information and analytic television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u90	Mrs. Olena, I think that's actually what's going to happen in time. The only thing you know as a medic is that you can't do it right now. That's why we're giving you the opportunity to work and do this kind of analysis of the channel. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the 8th Committee's amendment has been rejected. The author of the paper is Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:59]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sumar doesn't insist. Bragar, 10 lashes. Don't insist. 11th Amendment, Princely. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Mikola Leonidovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u92	Thank you. This revision predicts that speech will take place directly in occupied areas. Dear friends, we allow the invaders to speak the Ukrainian channel there. The paper foresees that speaking temporarily, in addition to foreign nations, was taking place in occupied territory rather than in occupied territories. It's kind of technical, but essentially political. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u94	From a technical point of view, it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u95	Alexander Vladislavovich, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u96	From a technical point of view, it's rejected by the committee. From a technical point of view, it's rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you vote number 11. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:46]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Colleagues, prepare to vote for the law as a whole. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u98	Colleagues, I would like to stress, this is about the battle for the minds and hearts of Ukrainian citizens, including those living in temporarily occupied territories. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the System of Innovation of Ukraine (in terms of programming policy and distribution) (registration No. 2521). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:38:56]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Jasca Elizabeth Andriyevna Alexy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u100	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? You know, we talk about a lot in Parliament a lot, and we forget to celebrate very important dates. Yesterday, Ukraine marked a dramatic date in history. And on behalf of the "Serial of the People" faction, I would like to express my sympathy to all the Crimean Tatar people who suffered as a result of the genocide and deportation of the 44th year. Then, 76 years ago, thousands of Crimean Tatars were forced to leave their homeland at dawn. And it's because one chief wanted to just change the roots of the Crimea and send it away. Crime statistics are impressive: more than 180,000 deported Crimean Tatars, more than 80,000 confiscated homes. Imagine if this happened right now. But unfortunately, it's happening now. Historic parallels are very dramatic. Now, what do we see? We see repression, we see racial discrimination against Crimean Tatars, and we see the forced displacement of Russians into Crimea. And then in 44, who would have thought that all of this could happen again, who then might have thought that the leader of the Crimean Crimean people, Mustafa Djemiliev, who was then gone and the year they then deported, would not be able to come to his own Crimea right now? Who would have thought that Majlis would be banned? Probably nobody. So today, from this rostrum, I want to emphasize that moving the forced population of Crimea is a crime. And racial discrimination against Crimean Tatars is a crime. The Russian Federation is responsible for this. And if anyone wants "Serial of the People" or President Zelensky to forget or keep quiet, it won't happen. We as the state of Ukraine have fought and will continue to fight in all international courts, on international platforms for bringing responsibility for crimes committed. Crime is our common pain and our responsibility. And just like in the Crimean Tatar dance "Hitarma," which is translated "moving forward," we have to move forward all together, all factions for the depopulation of the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the safety of nuclear energy use (registration No. 2372). The word is given to the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing services to Shippail Ostap Igorevich. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Edit number one, Bilkova. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Please don't break up, there's very few rights here, we're going to vote for the law now. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Don't insist. All of it. There's no more law enforcement. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ostap Igorevich, thank you for such a fitting statement, for the answers to all the questions you have been able to provide in a quality and professional way. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the safety of nuclear energy use (registration No. 2372). Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:45:24]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on State enforcement of food, feed, animal by-products, animal health and welfare (registration number 3398). Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision to include the issue in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:46:25]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:46:54]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that we apply a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please support and vote. [[11:47:21]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Sea Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, colleagues! I would like to point out that this bill is of great social economic importance to our country. Since the norm enters three years ago, the norm that was adopted three years ago comes into effect on May 18th, that state food control, which is controlled by the Inspectors of the State Service, has to go on. Officials. Since quarantine prevents them from joining the public service and all the competitions are suspended, we need to move this standard to 1 year by 17 May 2021. This change is very important so that Ukraine's border on food control on imported exports does not stop. Please accept, if possible, as a whole. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u103	The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u104	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee at its meeting on 6 May considered the bill amending Chapter X of the Act on State control over food, feed, animal by-products, animal health and welfare (No. 3398). The draft law is purely technical, changes only one digit: in paragraph 2 of Section X of the Final and Transitional Positions Act of Ukraine from 3 years to 4 years. From 18 05 C.E. In 2020, workers who carry out state veterinary control and border surveillance should be civil servants. Because of quarantine, these requirements of the Maintenance Service cannot be met. Therefore, in order not to stop veterinary control, it is necessary to continue to perform these functions by the competent authority for 1 year until 17 May 2021. In view of the above, I ask that Bill 3398 be supported as a basis and generally as a law. In addition to the committee, a request has been made from the State Service and Mineconomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u105	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u106	May I have the word of the Cabal of Volody.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, indeed, due to quarantine there are many things that. The reforms that were and were to enter into force during this period cannot be implemented and therefore the Voice faction supports this law in the first reading. In fact, we need to extend this term from three years to a little more. But I'm going to look at this word "a little bit," because the question is, why for a year? Why 3 to 4 years old? Would it not be enough, for example, two months or six months? So it seems to us that in the first reading we should support it, but then on the committee we should discuss very quickly, for which period it is better to extend. Because we find it very interesting. And this is more likely to be a period, not a year, but a little less. Because we have a very interesting situation right now when we're adopting reforms, it's not just this particular law, but a lot of the laws I'm talking about, in "transitional positions," we write that these reforms come into force after "x" years, after 2, 3, 4, 5, and then when this period passes, we add a year. That's not the way it's supposed to be. So let's, colleagues, let's support this law in the first reading, in the committee, let's talk about how long this period needs to go on, I think six months will do, and then we'll vote in the second reading a week later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u108	Thank you. You're an outcast. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u109	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, given that we have 1,100 veterinary inspectors today in six non-state institutions, they are not civil servants, they cannot exercise veterinary control abroad. This means that it will be difficult to export our animal products. But at the same time, really, colleagues are faithfully asking questions. Why a year? Why is one year short? And it's already a matter for the government, for its expertise and how much they can argue for us to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Fatherland supports the whole. But at the same time, we're talking about that the government today and directly those responsible for the agricultural sector do not fully see and understand the food security situation in fact in the country. Fatherland has registered the Food Security Order. We are approached by the agrarians of the southern regions of Ukraine for the fact that they have unsatisfactory actual weather conditions. Not only do they need to help financially today, but today we need to understand how we will provide prices for our consumers, for people, how food prices will not go up, and that is inflation. So the decision that we have proposed has been proposed to offer future forward contracts to be provided either by an agrarian fund or by a state reserve. The National Security Council made the same decision and invited the government to purchase food supplies in the state reserve. We don't see government action. The government has to work more effectively on measures such as the Coronary pandemic and drought in our agrarians. And let's support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u110	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u111	Please hand over the Shufrench.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u112	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, we need to consider this, but look at the empty beds. I would like to draw the attention of our television viewers, our citizens, those to whom monofractory has undertaken to serve, namely, the people of Ukraine. So we're gathered in these extreme conditions for this matter? And, you know, for justice's sake, I heard Jaroslav's crying about one of the former medical people. Tell me, Ulyana Suprun is not your product? Don't you know her? Is she not the one who has led our medics to the state that is today? [[B in m in s a l in]] So before the face of the face washes over here on the rostrum, please remember or look at the mirror. Today, we really need to unite all our efforts to protect our medics. Because, who else, like it to someone or not, in Soviet times they've got a high-quality education and a sense of responsibility, and they're now being barricaded and protecting our citizens, yes, and what to say, and we're with you. So I think we need to focus today on a more efficient, responsible agenda that has to solve the main issues, help people, doctors and, of course, raise living standards and financial security in the context of this crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u114	Sophia Romanovna Fedina. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, after only after the intense pressure of the opposition began to get 300 percent of the pay, when, in case of God's defense, the death of the Coronavirus was insured only after the intense pressure of "European Solidarity" and the united opposition of all. I was wondering who would come to their aid by covering up that "Mira" brought goods to Epicenter, the costumes Greensky and all the "Serves of the People" were talking about here, and they're really not there. And it was very interesting how the previous speaker covered them up from these sins. So, honourable colleagues, if we're talking about protecting the medics, you know, we need to talk about real protection. When hundreds of thousands of masks are transferred to places where more than 130,000 costumes are purchased by the Dusty Foundation, and at this time the Ministry of Health, sorry, reports with Zelenski that it is moving something, and it is disappearing somewhere, or worse, into shops and is sold. As far as this law is concerned, the idea is true. But, really, what goes on for a year today is at the root of it is unfaithful. That's why "European Solidarity" is ready to support this bill in the first reading and then make immediate changes that will last for two months or several months to allow the public service to apply. But not for a year, as is done today. Because, you know, again what we see. Under a beautiful name, under the beautiful idea of the law, some equipment is once again hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u116	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote for the law. Dear colleagues, the committee has proposed that this law be adopted as a basis and in general. Are we all ready on the basis and in general? I'm going to give the committee's head a motive to explain why it's important, on the basis and in general. Only one faction against. Solski Mikola Tarasovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u117	Colleagues, look, I actually understand the comments about the terms. It was also discussed on a committee, a matter of time. But this is a request from the government. We really don't know when we're going to get out of quarantine, we don't know if there's going to be a second wave and other moments. So they asked for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u118	Anyone against the whole, raise your hands, please. Three factions. Okay. All of it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Ending and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On State Control of Compliance with Legislation on Food, Feed, By-products of Animal Origin, Health and Animal Welfare (Registration No. 3398). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:49]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have put to the vote the proposal to cut back on the proposal and the right and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3398). Please support and vote. [[12:01:24]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, back to our work. Please prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the operation and circulation of agricultural receipts (registration No. 2805). Dear colleagues, we need to decide on the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. This requires 226 votes in favour of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the functioning and circulation of agrarian receipts (registration No. 2805). Please support and vote. [[12:46:39]] For 239. Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. It also requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:47:06]] For 242 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:47:27]] For 232 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Give me four minutes as the author and representative of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, this bill is proposed for your consideration by the 2805 Bill, which proposes to make systematic changes to the Agrarian Postage Act. The Institute of Agrarian Cards has been operating in our country since 2013. During this time, agrarian receipts have involved or have contributed 24 billion dollars of credit to their farms. Agrarian receipt is a tool that allows agriculture to be involved in agricultural production under future crops. What we're offering. Based on the practice of using this tool, we suggest that it be improved. First, admit the nature of the receipt as non-issued securities, and allow the circulation of agrarian receipts in the form of an electronic document. In addition, extend the range of subjects who have the right to issue agrarian receipts by adding agricultural cooperatives, as well as expanding possible collateral options for agrarian notes, such as animals and animal products. Noting that it is not a land invasion or a mortgage on immovable property or similar objects, it is only a future crop. In addition, the order of issuance of circulation and termination of agrarian receipts has been simplified and the standardised form of agrarian receipts has been introduced and the capacity of agrarian receipts has been improved through stock market mechanisms. Many years of agrarian receipts are also introduced and can be done in parts. The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on April 7, 20, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2805. In addition, the committee is currently considering another 2884 bill amending a number of laws, and the Securities and Stock Markets Act will be replaced by a new law on capital markets and organized commodity markets. In this regard, in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules, the Main Committee, as an exception, will have to make a substantial change in the structure of Bill 2805 to the second reading and supplement it with proposals and amendments that are not considered in the first reading. Please support the committee's decision and adopt Bill 2805 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign two in, two in, and two in factions. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u122	Dear friends, we will not be able to support this bill even in the first reading. Let me remind you, the law that we're considering was passed in 2012 and has put into effect the market mechanism of agro-signatures, which has proven to be effective over the years. None of the agrarians insist that we make any changes. There is no reference to this subject anywhere. Indeed, even in the past marketing year, 130 agribusinesses have been involved in their circulation of some 15 billion dollars. What Is in the Law? The absence of a classical flag is limited to a future crop. The other one. Minimum package of documents. Third. The speed of the processing, the cost of the farmer gets within an hour. Four. The size of the percentage is lower than that of the banks. A clearly defined package, the official part of which is prescribed in the law. And the article, and once again, the 7th law: compensation to the creditor in the event of default, the subject of the mortgage -- exclusively the crop, everything else -- is a risk. Instead, the positive features of the moments that have just been sounded are always said to be something in the trifles. All right, little things. It is offered as collateral, including the property of third parties. Colleagues, property is land, no matter what you say, it's land. In the terms of the Law you have passed on the land market, it is property that is subject to mortgage. Moreover, no qualifications are established for the creditor. So it could theoretically be offshore companies, legal persons of the aggressor state, natural and legal persons who are subject to sanctions, persons who are suspected of FATF in money laundering and so on and so forth. We will not be able to support the first reading. Second, if we work together and clean up these inadequacies, we may vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u123	Stefanine Olga Anatolylna. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, of course, there may be technical comments before this bill, including in our "Voice" faction. But conceptually, if we want our agricultural sector to develop, if we want our financial sector to develop, if we want to finally have all the opportunities that we have, including European farmers, we need to adopt this law as a basis. Yes, of course, it doesn't work alone, we're going to need to adopt other laws, including derivatives and financial papers. But this is one of the steps that can really help us translate the relationship between one of the most priority areas of the economy of Ukraine, namely the agricultural sector, into a new tool. That's why we urge you, your honors, to vote in the first reading for this bill. I'm sure by the second reading, all the clever comments and corrections that will be made, we'll be discussing and preparing this bill together in a professional atmosphere, so that by the second reading, he'll be in favor. We consulted regulators, we consulted business associations, and now this is an important and necessary step to keep us moving. From keeping our demands and our promises when we move from a raw economy to a truly developed economy, including in the agricultural sector. So, your honors, the position of the Voice faction: we will vote in favour of this bill. We urge you to support and, together with the second reading, make it work for the benefit of our citizens and our agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u125	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u126	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Today, the agricultural sector needs constant circulation costs, and agrarian receipts are an effective tool from this point of view. And this procedure needs to be constantly improved and moved. As far as the bill is concerned, there are many positive and negative points. I'd like to stop at a few of them. For example, what is positive is that it is suggested that agricultural cooperatives should be able to use agricultural farm receipts because, usually, agricultural cooperatives do not have enough circulation costs in small farms. Even though there are negative moments. For example, we're comparing agrarian receipts to categories of promissory notes, it's completely incomprehensible, it's extra costs, and it's an extra fiber. Plus, there are other points, such as the possibility of applying for an agrarian receipt not only for future crops but also for other possessions. There's some sort of raiding element. And what has recently shown in the agrarian sector is that these elements are present. Therefore, it is vital that we work on the second reading. The "Trust" MP will vote in favour of this bill only on the first reading, provided that the disagreements I said would be corrected for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u127	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u129	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I would still like to put the dots in some places. It is quite obvious that an effective tool such as agrarian receipts is needed by Ukraine. Should this tool be further developed and improved? Of course you do. The purpose of the draft law, which has just been reported, is to simplify the issuance of circulation and termination of agrarian receipts and to increase the turnover of agrarian receipts. Please tell me, how is the agrarian billing tool provided today? In fact, this is a type of future contract, with notaries playing a very important role in the preparation of the agrarian receipts checking the ownership or use of land, which adds additional guarantees to the creditor regarding the taking of the debtor’s decision. What do we propose now? You realize that improving the agrarian billing tool is necessary in part for the creditor to have more opportunity, it's also in crop control, and if the agrarian can't prove the production operation to the end so that the creditor can intervene at some point and play a role to ensure the return of that loan that he gave to the farmer under the future crop. Now we see a completely different system, but the administrator of the register of agrarian receipts is now the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. That's very good, because the order and purpose of these agrarian receipts are the ones they understand the most. Why is the transfer, to what, more faithfully, of agricultural receipts to securities? What's this tool for? We don't have much use for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, now with Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Francis and his motives. Yvchenka, I'm sorry, you've already spoken, faction. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Agrarian receipts are great. It would be good to find out what kind of receipts we have in the government reserve, because when the pandemic came, even the marli there could not find a normal one. And I'm so glad we helped the animals. I'm not against animals, I love animals, honestly. But perhaps the time has come for people to think and think about how they will come out of this tribulation? I want to talk to the people who were in trouble for the medics right now. You've had two cuts in medical funding: from $7 billion to 3.5, you've barely reached 4. So today we need to understand the full responsibility of the former authority. And to Zelenski, I would like to point out that the people of Ukraine, in the last survey on the relationship between Dustenk and Zelenski, are already putting the "equal" sign. That's what you need to think about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Igor Pavlovich Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u134	You know, colleagues, I'm not going to get involved in any political issues of this bill, but I'm going to talk only about its legal nature. Look, since the 12th year, the agrarian billing institute has been running. He is totally touchy, normal with those subjects to whom the people trust. Notaries have long borne witness to signatures on agrarian receipts, checked property rights, rights, and made it impossible for any fraud to deal with these receipts. Tomorrow we may find ourselves in a situation where we came to the beginning of our cadence when we passed Law 1056-1 to avoid raiding. Right now, we might be able to get a raid into the agrarian receipts. Think about what we're doing, because then the agrarians will come to each of us and they'll say they have no right to charge any money that hasn't been registered in this register. Think more than just to push the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning and circulation of agricultural allowances (registration No. 2805). Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[13:03:30]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning and circulation of agricultural allowances (registration No. 2805). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:07]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on postal financial services (registrations 2788, 2788-1, 2788-d). We need to. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We need to decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on financial services in the field of postal communications. Ready to vote? This requires the support of 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Please support and vote. [[13:05:07]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:05:32]] For 253 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:05:51]] For the 250. Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u136	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, you have before you a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on postal financial services. — No. 2788. Its aim is to increase the availability of financial services for small businesses, local governments, as only 6 percent of the country’s territory is now covered by the banking area. As a result, significant costs, namely pensions, social assistance, postal transfers, are transferred to cash, and are said to be under the pillow. These funds do not work for the national economy, and they often become the prey of criminals who rob single pensioners. In order to address this situation, the bill introduces a postal account system, and the national postal operator is given the right to open and enter them, issue them, service the payment cards, share the costs of individuals and legal persons, etc. I will note that opening up postal accounts to customers is a common practice in the world. In the world today, 87 postal operators provide services for the opening and maintenance of current and deposit accounts, accounting for almost 2 billion customers. So this bill is called upon to simplify the procedure for the payment of pensions, social assistance, postal transfers, and their recipients will be able to place their own funds in postal accounts for the purpose of saving them, for extra income, for cash-free use. In view of the fact that Bill 2788 did not take account of a number of issues, it was worked out in the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs with the involvement of international experts, and an improved bill of 2788-d, which more severely protects the interests of citizens. I want to thank you, colleagues. Thank you. All citizens should have access to financial services.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u137	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Marousek Oleg Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u138	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Bill 2788 actually proposes to turn the Crucifixion into a bank that doesn't have a bank license. The bill does not have a clearly defined mechanism for fulfilling its obligations to owners of funds. There are threats to the non-return of deposits and the blocking of citizens’ pension accounts. My bill 2788-1 does not contain the risks that are in the basic law. I propose that banks be allowed to engage postal operators on agent terms to provide banking services. This includes investing in legal and physical assets, opening and maintaining bank accounts. I believe that this approach is modern and progressive, and it stimulates fair competition and removes corruption risks. Please accept base 2788-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u139	Thank you. The word for the report is given to a member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Vasilevsky-Smagluk Olga Mikhailnni. Turn on four minutes, because it's both from the committee and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u140	I can do it for two.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u141	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u142	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, each of us knows the picture of the boards of the banking institutions and the post office is the new Ukrainian Pastoral. Right in front of the nose of each of us in the village, the mail and bank offices are closing down, the ATMs are being dismantled. The reason is unprofitable. 37 percent of our citizens are completely deprived of access to any banking services, including our farmers, our pensioners, our small businesses, the management of the territorial united communities. In the 21st century, in Ukraine, access to the nearest bank office costs a person more than income per cent of their savings accounts, since banks are only 6 percent of the population. We're here with you and Gabon and Uganda. Even in large villages in my constituency, as in Ukraine, there are no bank offices left, that is, 15 million rural people in Ukraine are deprived of convenient access to banking services. And that's because you and I have defined decentralization and the development of agriculture as a priority. For example, the Law on Land, which we recently approved with you, says that earth’s accounting is to take place in a cash - free form. Please tell me, how do I do this if there are no bank offices at all? These are the problems that are solved when we adopt this amended bill. So far, there are 11,000 offices in almost every corner of Ukraine. There's a number of fuses. The Post Office can't lend, the maximum amount in the mail accounts will be limited. Crushing will definitely become a member of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, allowing Crucifixion to open such accounts will not increase the share of the public sector. This bill will save the state budget more than 2 billion dollars that are currently spent on pensions. We don't invent a bicycle. Mail banks are in France, Japan, Switzerland, Kazakhstan. And we studied their experience and brought them together here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performances from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill is absolutely appropriate and worthy of attention. Only to implement in the way proposed in the amended bill is it impossible for us to do so. Because if you compare us with other countries, then please refer to the World Bank’s observation and experience, which says that the most progressive is an agent model whose performance control is more severe. A bank agent is 100 percent responsible for his assets. I have a rhetorical question. You're talking about whether it's 5 million, or whether it's the 15 million rural population that you want to provide financial services. What financial services are needed? You think there's a lot of money in there for people who are willing to put it in? Are there many who want to open the current accounts? Farmers and other small farms and entrepreneurs have already opened such accounts. Please tell me, why are so many branches in Ukraine of banks closed, including settlements, such rural areas? Because they're non-profitable. Because there's no way to maintain all the infrastructure without a client. Infrastructure is primarily the security of people's money. Now with this bill, you're putting the rural population in unequal conditions that will not be guaranteed to save their money. We have no idea what would start with banditry and attacks on these post offices, where three copies will be stored, figuratively speaking. And they're all going to go there because they're rural settlements, where they're in custom rooms, even if they're modernized. And remember, Crucifixion is a national operator. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u145	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u146	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I certainly support this bill if we're not Uganda and not Gabon. And please pass the word to a colleague of the faction of Dmitri Luboto.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u147	My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u148	Congratulations, colleagues. Honourable deputies, under the Constitution of Ukraine, all citizens are guaranteed equal rights. In practice, however, we often have a very different one, especially when it comes to the inhabitants of rural areas. I'm a national MP who's elected in 178 Kharkiv County, as no one else understands the problem. For example, the availability of modern financial banking services. Where in the village can you find a branch of a bank? The answer is obvious: Nowhere. So the post office is in almost every village, at least it's next door. Therefore, the adoption of this bill will increase the cost-sharing rate in the economy, increase the accumulation of additional financial resources in the financial system, create additional conditions for the development of non-cash accounts, and so on. I propose to support the amended 2788-d bill on amending some Ukrainian legislation on financial services in the field of postal communications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u149	Pippa Natalia Romanovna. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have approached this issue with consideration by the Voice faction, when we decide whether or not to uphold this law. We looked at all the pros and cons. Indeed, what is the main contradiction against this law that the concentration of the banking sector in the hands of the state can increase. After the Nationalization of Privacy, we have more than half of the banking sector in the hands of the state. But on the other hand, we understand that we have a problem with the financial inclusion of the rural population, so people don't have access to banking services in the village. And we have the Spare Party, which would have this function. And if I was asked three or four years ago whether I would have supported this law, I would have said no, because there's a Savings. But over the course of these three or four years, we've seen that Spare Party has not taken a step further in this matter. Accordingly, in deciding whether to uphold this law or to give the opportunity to provide financial services mainly in villages, we have to think from the point of view of ability. We've seen that Crucifixion has shown its ability, proved the possibility of reforming such a post-Radians monster, while the bank that would have this function has not proved it. So given the question of the ability to provide financial inclusion in the village, access to normal banking services, the answer is obvious: it can only be a national postal operator. So the Voice faction will support this law in the first reading. I'm sure we'll make it better by the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u151	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u152	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you've only changed one rule in the past. During the issue of the agrarian receipt, you introduced the possibility for the creditor to remove other property that would belong to the debtor. There's no such thing today. This means that you are giving an additional mechanism to those who will provide money, including borrowing money from land purchases. What is being suggested here? With good intent to reach every peasant, you are in complete violation of the Banking and Banking Act. Colleagues, proper banking, participation of individuals, legal persons require a number of specific requirements for bank capital, bank reserve, and liability if these costs are to be lost. Colleagues, the lack of compulsory licensing rules places a certain privilege in front of other banks. Understand one thing that the decision-making mechanism is such that there will be no full responsibility if people, the same citizens, under the good purpose for which you want to introduce such an opportunity, lose the right costs. And look at this, please, and who supported this law. The Ministry of Infrastructure didn't support it, the National Bank didn't support it, the Ministry of Finance didn't support it. With this mechanism, we can only harm, harm, and harm the peasants. And I understand one thing is that this is a tax mechanism that you want to put in place for this grandmother to sell her own, if you'll excuse me, under a crowbar or at a low cost. She sold her property, including during your adoption of the Land Market Act. "Paternality" against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, together with two speeches of motive, we move on to the vote. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national MPs, this bill likens postal bills to bank accounts. And according to the Trust MP, the idea of providing banking services to non-banking legal persons seems somewhat questionable, and it's almost difficult to implement. First of all, because banking is an exclusive activity and provides for a range of requirements for minimizing financial and credit risks for our population. Of course, the bill is based on good intentions, that is, increasing the accessibility of our residents to banking services in villages, villages. However, neither Minfin nor the NBA supported the bill, or the professional evaluation of these good intentions is negative. And actually this bill is aimed at creating a parallel banking system that will provide residents with banking services, but it doesn't match the banking system.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u155	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! We're late, we're late for 15 years on this. 15 years ago, back in 2005, I, as the Minister of Transportation and Communications of Ukraine, signed a program and a development plan for Crucifixion, where it was supposed that "Staff" would become a banking institution, as was done in many European countries, where Internet commerce was envisaged, that "Stamps" would be implemented (all said it was impossible – a website, an Internet trade; see how many Internet outlets today – "The Rosette" and so on, no one has done so for 15 years), where it was envisaged to create on the basis of "Stamp" new departments such as today "New Mail" took up the market and so on. And there's still a chance to re-enter this banking sector. So why not support this bill? Why don't you give the Crucifixion to go through, to every village, to every district, and at the base of your departments, to enter into a competitive struggle, to get extra profits, to improve the quality of your work, to give your people extra wages, extra income? And that's normal. Do not give anyone the opportunity to overthrow this bill. Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on financial services in the field of postal services (registration number 2788-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:25:18]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Amendments, please show by factions some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing road construction and improving urban legislation (registration number 2680).
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on the issue in short notice. To think about it, if we're going to go through a reduced procedure, we're going to have to get 150 votes. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:26:24]] For 222 Decision taken. I invite you to comment to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Schuljak Olen Alexiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u159	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, is proposing a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the optimization of road construction and the improvement of legislation in the area of urban activity (registration number 2680). As you know, last fall, the President initiated a huge national program called "Big Construction", and as of March 1, 2020, we can see in all parts of Ukraine, in all areas, how they are being built simultaneously, reconstructed and implemented capital repairs of thousands and thousands of kilometres of roads, both state and local. With a view to simplifying the permit procedures to obtain permits for reconstruction and capital repairs, this is only a matter of capital repair, it is proposed to simplify the procedure for obtaining permits, and for this, the customer or general contractor will provide to the authorities of the state architectural building control all the project documentation, all the positive conclusions of the expertise, but will not expect to obtain the permit, only the message will be sufficient. To date, the committee has considered the bill, supported and recommended it as a basis. I also ask you to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, two for, for discussion. Please welcome to the words of Ivanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u161	Please pass the word to Mikola Knieżicki from "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u162	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, of course, we support simplification of regulation, other procedures, but according to this bill, financing of work in the development of state building standards is allowed to be done at any given time. In fact, builders can lobby their own interests, set standards beneath them. In doing so, contractors and contractors may fail to comply with such standards because such a duty is being removed. Building standards and rules will not be subject to state energy conservation expertise, which does not seem to match the general course on energy-saving technologies. But most of all. The bill proposes to remove the rule that the city’s chief architect, the district, agrees with the city’s construction and architectural design decisions of objects located in the historic part of the city, historical areas, on highways, and on public squares. I'm a major from Lviv. You can see what the historical center of our historic cities turns into. This is not just a problem of Lviv, it is the problem of Kiev, Odessa, and many other cities. And obviously, if no one agrees with projects and architectural solutions, it threatens to turn our cities from architectural units into things that they're gradually becoming. For this reason, our faction will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u164	Thank you. Welcome to Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u165	I ask you to uphold this law. And please pass the word Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u166	Who? Hand over the shirt, please. Helen Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u167	I can get out of here, can't I? So far, there's been a simplification procedure in place in order of experimentation. Government decree taken. And by this bill, we're fixing the positive acquisitions that are being used at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u168	Thank you. People's MP Puziychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u169	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Listen! The substance of the bill is contained in two paragraphs. 1 point, that's what Kravtodor may not do environmental impact assessment projects. Are we good with ecology? We are not interested in how highways and solutions will affect the environment, the ecosystem, the lives of people? How can such bills be supported? And the second question. This is what is being given today by the indulgence of Ukraine. Compared with other farming subjects, Ukrawtodor may not be allowed high - complexity objects. Why do other subjects receive and do not receive Kkrawtodor? We were approached by gas stations that couldn't get permission in the DABI to rebuild the network. Have you eradicated corruption in the DABI? Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take this opportunity, please ask the President a question tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Bakunec National Deputy, Trust Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u171	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Why do Ukrainians need the Road Building Optimization Act? It's very simple, because this bill will reduce the time it takes to get the right to start work on the reconstruction of buildings in historical areas or on reconstruction, or on the capital repair of automobiles. This means that our citizens will be able to travel on good, rehabilitated roads faster. And the second. This bill will ensure the deregulation of building activities without creating additional risks to the lives and health of our citizens and to the risks of corruption. It is also beneficial for local governments that will reduce these piles of necessary papers and will be able to get to work faster to improve the well - being of our residents in their places. Everyone please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues! Denis Anatolyevich, distinguished colleagues. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the optimization of road construction and the improvement of legislation in the area of construction. Urban activity, excuse me, (project registration number 2680). The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:38]] For 227 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u173	Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the Provision of Construction Products on the Market (registration number 2698). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:36:21]] For 222 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Schuljak Oleni Aleksyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you have before you a bill (registration number 2698) on the supply of construction products on the market. Colleagues, for no one, that the mandatory certification of building materials has been revoked in Ukraine since 2018. And for today, in our construction market, we can see a huge amount of non-quality building materials, huge amounts of counterfeiting, counterfeiting. And it's not just beauty or aesthetics, it's just a matter of security, it's just as important, for example, as food security, it's a question of our longevity and healthy lifestyle. In its time, Ukraine made commitments under the Association Agreement with the EU and in its 56th paragraph the implementation of the 305 European regulations and its implementation in Ukraine. This European regulation, it introduces the obligation of manufacturers to declare the technical characteristics of their products and to be responsible for those products, for those construction products that are made available on the market. To date, the adoption of this bill will also be the first step towards the signing of the SAAA Agreement and the free movement of our Ukrainian goods into other global markets and markets in the EU. I ask, like the committee, to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Are you there? Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in favour, two in favour. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u176	Please, the word of Romano Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u177	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, we have now, we're going to discuss a law that regulates the market for building materials. And you know, we have a lot of double standards with building materials. We have a very good example, and unfortunately, a sad example of double standards in this area, when one hypermarket is allowed to work in quarantine times, other small building stores that in the district center and in which there were never more than two people at the same time, are not allowed to work. The same double standards are found in the construction market when standards are regulated to create monopolies to create unique positions for individual manufacturers of construction materials. Therefore, the standard set out in this European Union directive law is a good step. We hold back from taking such an initiative, and we support it as a basis. Because before the second reading, we need to discuss a number of rules that regulate commissions and other issues. Double standards in the area of building materials need to be cleaned, they need to be cleaned in standards by introducing European Union directives. And that's what we support. But you have to take, by regulating quarantine activities, without creating double standards and preferences for some businessmen who trade in building materials, instead of killing small and medium-sized businesses that are just being traded and closed down to create opportunities for big business to trade, especially building materials. So "no" is double standards. And this bill is based on the Voice faction's support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u179	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u180	Thank you, Mr. Head. Stepan of Cuba, please. Stepan of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u181	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, our political force "European Solidarity" will support this bill. First. This bill fully agrees with the principles and standards of the European Union, where we agreed on an appropriate and normative and legal basis, signing the legislative aspect. The other one. We're talking about defining legal and organizational principles for the introduction of construction products into the market by improving rules and international standards. And the third. This is mainly because regulatory and technical specifications today are fully in line with European rules. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u183	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The opposition has the right to be a real opposition if it is objective. Three of my previous statements from this rostrum today have been the subject of destructive criticism of the actions of power. But we are objectively considering those initiatives that can actually affect the development of the national economy, especially the increase in jobs. Because today's jobs are the main thing that our economy needs and, above all, our citizens, especially at a time when we're going to get out of quarantine and we're going to deal with the consequences of a pandemic that, unfortunately, has affected the whole world. So it is this legislative initiative that is timely, that requires discussion, support, and decision-making. I say once again, to act on the principle that "what's wrong with the country is a good opposition" as the responsible national MPs of Ukraine, as the responsible opposition political power we will never allow ourselves. If there is an initiative that will objectively affect the national economy today and that will contribute to the increase in jobs, we support this initiative. And I think that's how opposition political power should work, and every national deputy in Ukraine is responsible to himself and to his country that we represent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone who would like to speak? No one was speaking from the "Serve of the People"? Marina Sergiyevna Mezenceva
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. The European Integration Committee considered the bill at its next session. We thank the co-authors for their activity. We would like to point out that the adaptation of this legislation is due to the requirements of European law and the Association Agreement should be implemented by the end of 2020. So the timing of this bill is very high. Also, as my colleague noted, we talked about certain shortcomings. But we are confident that, between the first and the second readings, there will be remedies in accordance with Regulation 305/2011. And of course, we're taking another step, as we did with you at the end of last year, and we're getting close to this bill to industrial failure. So this bill is not just about building materials, it's about the general concept of our European integration. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u187	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill actually introduces technical regulations for construction products, and its adoption will ensure implementation into Ukraine's legislation of the European Union's regulations on the quality of construction products. This is also a commitment by Ukraine to implement the Association Agreement with the European Union. So if we adopt this bill, we're going to remove the gap in legislation regarding the admission to the market of building materials, which is we're going to introduce a complex system of testing of building materials to meet the quality standards. So this bill responds to our national interest in the construction market, and it also accelerates our European integration. And that's why the Trust MPs support this bill, and we urge everyone in the Hall to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the draft Law on Building Products on the Market (register No. 2698). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:47:47]] For 276 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for making changes (registration No. 2256). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:48:26]] For 238. Decision taken. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the entire committee, I'm going to ask you to support this bill, and there's a very simple story behind it. Over the years, other committees have made changes, destructive changes to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code. Let me give you an excellent example. This is an example of what is called Lozov's drafts, which we all know and have canceled in September months, which essentially stopped expertizing on the bodies of the dead. There are quite a number of such cases. That's why our committee came up with an offer. We have a number of legislative acts that are dealt with exclusively by professional committees, separate laws. This is about, in particular, the Customs, Budget, Tax Codes and the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges, which are dealt with in accordance with the Committee of Legal Policy, the Committee of Tax and Customs Policy and the Committee of Budgets. Our initiative is to prevent amendments to these marginal codes, the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code, which would be passed in other great laws and amend it without the participation of the Main Committee. That is why we propose that they be enacted by individual laws, and the committee unanimously voted in favour of considering and supporting the bill today. I also address all factions. All the members of the committee, without excluding the factions, supported this necessary law, and I think the hall today will also support it. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u191	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u192	Andrew Kozemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u193	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u194	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, in the last meeting, the committee that I led today, headed by Mr. Monastery, drafted this bill in 2016. And I am grateful to you, Mr. Dennis, and to all the members of the committee for your support and support of this subject. Why? You were right about Lozov's treatment. But there are questions surrounding this amendment that because of the committee I led at the time, some legal experts wanted to go around it because of the principle of position. So, just so you know, all the resonances in both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Code were accepted, not by the Committee on Law Enforcement, but by the Committee on Legal Policy and other committees. It is also the right of the Ministry of Justice to investigate, it is also the so - called search for Janukovich’s assets without a court decision, but to forget Yanukovich and take someone instead, but we did not, eight times. So I think, unfortunately, every national MP who comes to the Supreme Council today is a tradition, even if he's not a lawyer, he wants to train as a model in the courtroom to put legal rights into the Criminal Code. It's a shameful practice, it balances codes, it hurts society, because then those who work with these codes understand how to ask questions in court and in the course of investigations. So our faction supports this initiative. And I am grateful again to the committee for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u195	Thank you. Kostuch Anatoly Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Bakumov Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u197	Who? Bakumov Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u198	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! As one of the authors of this bill, I ask this room to support a bill that is called upon to improve our criminal and criminal criminal legislation, to make it stable and consistent with the principles of legal certainty. Unfortunately, many of the bills that contain culture, art, film and so forth in their fundamental content are always designed to amend the Criminal Code -- not always, but in the vast majority. And it usually changes, not just the sanction, but the composition of the crime itself, the objective aspect of the composition of the crime changes, and the subject changes. This results in a situation where the Criminal Code is balanced. As an example, the Supreme Council recently voted in its first reading a bill that called for the safety of animal and plant worlds, for the provision of appropriate guarantees, and for the change to the criminal process, which required the investigational and operational groups to establish the death of an animal, the death of an animal, not to be destroyed, and, if necessary, to do so. In this way, we understand that a professional committee should not simply react to this, it should fully involve both scientific institutions and higher education institutions, civil society institutions, in order to process every rule that is included in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Code. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u199	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u200	Ustenova Alexandra, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u201	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u202	My fellow Members, we now have in every nearly committee a bill that will be blocked if this bill is passed. Now, for example, the Defence Committee has a bill on the reform of the BSS, which envisions many changes to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. I know that the Hetmansev committee has been reviewing the Law on the Bureau of Financial Investigation, which can be blocked only by this bill, because it also provides for changes to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. Now you want us to balance the system, because now we have all the changes, everything that will apply to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, going through one committee, and everything else, the basis of the bill, through another. Imagine if the Defence Committee and the Hall now vote on the BSC Act, and our law enforcement committee doesn't vote on the amendment and vote on the part about the Criminal Procedure Code, how will the reform work? But it won't work. So now that they want to run everything on all the committees completely under one committee, it's actually going to be usurpation. That's why Voice won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u203	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Then, with two motives, two arguments of motive. Then we go to the vote. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u204	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please hand over Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u205	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I think the worst thing we can do in the session room right now is blame each other, the committee to blame the committee for doing something wrong. And there was a reference to Lozov’s revisions. I'm going to tell you that the problem is not what the committee did, but that the bill that came before the first reading envisions changes to the Criminal Code, but they have a huge array of issues that fall within the purview of this committee. And the committee can't get away with it, it's bound to consider it. He has no right to divide the bill into pieces and to pass it on from his own initiative to another committee. And this problem has really been in past convocations. But I think it's the calling that's most abused. Too bad the committee head didn't see these examples right now. In fact, a bill was introduced yesterday that deals with electoral legislation that changes the entire chapter of the Criminal Code. And so many examples. In fact, this procedure, which works, for example, in relation to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, where such order is foreseen, works, is effective. And we didn't have it removed by Law 1008. But let's take a wider look at these things. Let's extend it to all procedural codes. Why not? Let's spread it to the Civil Code. The Administrative Code. Maybe on the farm. This issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, because it's not just a matter of criminal legislation, it's a question of codes as such. I agree that only a profile committee can give a professional comprehensive assessment of the changes that are being proposed. No one else can do that. But this is the problem and the MPs who make the bills. Let's kind of start with ourselves then. It turns out that the guilty committee, and there is no way that these deputies are responsible. If we apply such changes, let us apply them for the future. Let's do a joint bill. Let's figure out some other bill that might need that kind of thing. And now, frankly, this problem can't be solved because we're going to have a plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u207	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try simple words and give examples. Why is there a mess in law enforcement? Because there is an alternative: there is one article, and all law enforcement agencies are doing it. If there is no responsible, one article and one law enforcement agency, we have the results: spring has come, no one is sitting. This bill says simple things. It's number one. About the fact that a committee named for law enforcement agencies is only engaged in a defined field and should be responsible for its actions, for its decisions. "The opposition platform for life" will support this bill to ensure that the function is still on the committee of its own, to study legislation, to make changes, to make bills, to not betray here and to be responsible for it. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u209	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, there are many discussions about whether or not it makes sense to adopt a narrower bill when it comes to global improvement. It is about reforming the law, improving the work of law enforcement agencies, and including the legislation that is designed to do so. But we agreed that the best way to work on the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code is to be based on that. And in recent times, we have found that efforts through other committees to carry out those positions that have to do with making substantial changes to these codes have led to a distortion of both the legislative process and, in general, the substance of the bills. So we suggest, and the Trust Group will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, and I suggest even the whole acceptance, because it's a matter of a profile committee of profile issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u211	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we have indeed been seeing for many years in the Supreme Council, when bills related to changes, such as in the Criminal and Criminal Codes, are being considered entirely in any committee. And sometimes, unfortunately, we have examples of political reasons adopting laws and then the Committee of Law Enforcement forced them to do so. Dig it all up. So I think we can really support this. And the right law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I have a question right away. Because what I've heard from representatives of various MP factions and groups is that there's a proposal to vote both on the basis and then on the whole. It's settled. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the procedure for making changes (registration No. 2256). Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:34]] For 280 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for making changes (registration No. 2256). Please support and vote. [[14:04:12]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. The procedure is Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u214	Colleagues, I have a question. We have two decrees: 3401 and 3402, we've just discussed them and they still need work, unfortunately. I'm asking you to take this off the order of the day today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I suggest we move on to the following questions. Is there no objection? Okay. The next question is the draft Decision on the appointment of the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (registration number 3067). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:37]] For 229 Decision taken. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u216	Once again, dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank you for supporting the previous bill, and I think it will really be necessary and effective. As for the issue that we are currently considering, it is very difficult, since the Supreme Council has already owed more than five months to appoint its representatives to a competitive commission for the election of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Let me remind you that in December of the 19th year, we passed a law on improving the activities of the D.B.I., which released the Director and Deputy Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. And it's also determined that the Supreme Council is delegating 3 out of 9 representatives to a competitive commission. Such representatives have been appointed by the President of Ukraine, and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers are delegating representatives of the international community who are awaiting our vote today on this decision. So there are requirements for the members of the competition committee that the committee has considered. There were unforgivable, I think, four meetings during which the committee appointed representatives of the Supreme Council to this competitive commission. In conclusion, on February 12, this year, we adopted and voted on the voting rules and elected such persons. In particular: Vladen Mihajlovich Nekludova, a national deputy of the faction, a representative of the "Slut of the People" faction, a committee. Jury Anatoliyovich is a dean of the Faculty of Distances of the National Law Academy. Yaroslava Mudrogo University, a recognized criminal law expert. And Julia Grigorovna Yatzik is the National Deputy of Ukraine and our colleague with you. All meet the requirements set.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the MP factions and groups. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u218	Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u219	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of three circumstances in connection with this draft decision. First. The Supreme Council of Ukraine would decide on this issue by 22 January of this year. We have already completed all the deadlines, questioning the overall future fate of this competition. The other one. During the discussion, all experts from the Ukrainian, foreign, and foreign countries said that it was impossible to put members of the Supreme Council on a competitive committee because there was a potential conflict of interest. Those who can potentially be investigated cannot choose someone who can potentially investigate. And the third. I would like to remind you that the Committee of Law Enforcement has violated the decision of the "Serve of the People" faction, which has put forward completely different nominations and has in no way insisted on the support of candidates from the MP Corps. So this decision is too late and it goes against the standards of virtue and democracy. So we will be firm against that decision. And we urge everyone to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u221	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, first of all, is it necessary to select representatives as soon as possible for the Conquest Commission to be able to work fully both in this commission and to remove the leadership of the State Bureau of Investigation in a qualitative manner? Of course, yes. And my colleague was absolutely right to say that the delay with this question is not good. Now the second question is about composition. I will take the liberty of saying that whatever composition is offered, there will never be a consensus that everyone will be satisfied. Either the political power or the political faction or the group will say that there are no either its representatives or not such experts and so forth. I want to remind the committee that we really had a lot of discussions about whether there should be representatives of public organizations within this competitive committee, whether there should be only, let's say, MPs or MPs and groups, and so on. There's been a lot of talk. But we voted and came to the conclusion that it is those who are now being proposed to the commission who will be able to carry out their duties professionally. We know both Nekludova and Yatzik and Ponomarenko personally. So I think I need to support these candidates and vote with the competition commission to be able to work as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u223	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u224	What I'm saying is, the incident that happened: "The Opposition Platform for Life" did not support an unprecedented decision by voting on the amendments to the State Bureau of Investigation Act. By this law, the Supreme Council replaced its function and relieved the chief, and the deputies, after which he was appointed to serve temporarily. The Supreme Council, after making its decision, was struck by a law - enforcement system. At present, the State Bureau of Investigation has assumed a different function than that of the central executive branch, but the law enforcement function, the State Bureau of Investigation is now a law enforcement body. And a committee on law enforcement, which, in performing its functions, performs a monitoring function, and the State Bureau of Investigation is accountable to the designated committee. You can discuss the circumstances that should be included in the commission that will take part in the election of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. It can be said that the leaders and those who are under investigation by the State Bureau of Investigation have a conflict of interest that has a bearing. But what I want to point out is that the example of investigating the criminal conduct of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation himself, he just doesn't exist. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support three candidates for whom we will vote in favour, who we believe should be included in the commission, do their job, choose a supervisor and, in fact, start the work of the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u225	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, in the form of a proposed draft ruling, this is not a draft decision to form a commission to elect the head of the DBR, this is a draft decree to transfer the State Bureau of Investigation to the full control and manual administration of President Zelensky, let's call things our names. According to the law, three of the subjects are nominated by members of the commission: President Zelenski himself – clearly whom he sent, the Cabinet of Ministers of Zelenski – clearly whom he has put out, and the Supreme Council has sent three representatives of the Zelensky faction, the "Serial of the People" faction – two deputies from this faction and one person from the "Serial of the People" faction. So all nine members of the commission will be the people appointed by Green, controlled by Green, and as a result, Greensky will appoint the head of the D.B.I. Therefore, those who now vote in favour of this decision, honourable colleagues, are voting in favour of transferring the State Bureau of Investigation to the personal control of President Zelenski. And then it's no wonder six months from now that they're assigning a man to one hundred percent of their boyfriends, that they're assigning a person who doesn't know what the legal system is, that they're assigning a person whose job is going to be "whomever you choose," that there's going to be all kinds of totally unknowable reports of suspicion that there's going to be some premeditated criminal cases, that there's going to be things that are completely incompatible with criminal law and criminal proceedings. Once again, today's decision in the form it is proposed, it does not balance the commission, it makes the commission one-sided, it puts it in the service of the acting president, and it has nothing to do with the independence of the Head of the State Bureau of Investigation as a law enforcement body called upon to solve the most complex criminal conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u227	Thank you. The motive is Bondar Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! It's absolutely right that colleagues have just noticed that, in fact, the creation in this format of this commission of the "Serve of the People" party and the President himself take full responsibility for who will be appointed Head of the State Bureau of Investigation. There is no representative of any other political party, political group, factions, and this is essentially the usurpation of the commission. At first, there was the look of democracy: file documents. I filed documents from each faction, from each group, and I personally filed documents. Then give the documents that you have legal education. Nate's your diploma. Then you have scientific degrees. Nate's your diploma. Then there's something else you have, then there's something else. We transferred these documents five months in a row. When there was no more reason to refuse, they just took a draft decree into the hall that you have three new candidates from Parliament, and all of them by chance from one political party, from one of the largest factions called "Serve of the People" today. So it's actually unfair and unfair and undemocratic. And nowhere in the world do they do that. And you're usurping today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u229	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u230	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, once this decision has been taken, the D.B.I. can be renamed, and now this abbreviation will be understood, this is "Friendly Friends." I mean, it's all of its own. We have one three from President Zelensky, one three from his government, and a three from Parliament, where there could be any democracy. At least one of the opposition factions would have been taken! But no. Again "Serves of the People," "Serves of the People," and only "Serves of the People." Why is this being done? It is understandable that this nine they form will form such a leadership of the DBR, which will be fully controlled by Zelenski. And this nine is going to turn into that nine-gram song into a heart. This is going to be nine grams into the heart of democracy, this is going to be an instrument of political repression, and the DBR is finally going to be a KGB. Just a red button!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u231	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I especially address my colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction. In my example, I felt that the D.B.I. could open cases about me when I published the tapes about how the President's own brother was selling government office. I urge you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u233	Ready to vote? Please invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Hall. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. I would like to place a motion for a vote on the adoption of a Decision generally on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 3067). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:21:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next question of the agenda. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. You have been invited to consider the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Problems of Living Minimum in Ukraine" (Registration No. 2789). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:22:08]] For 242 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I have a request, if possible, for a slide number one. Thank you. On December 18, parliamentary hearings were held, and on the basis of these hearings, the committee was working on a project that we are asking for today as a basis and as a whole. But I would like to show the distinguished National Deputies the analytics we came to at the Social Policy Committee. The dynamics of the ratio, you see, on the left hand side of the column, the column is the legislative minimum of living, and on the right hand side the column is the actual minimum of living, the actual minimum of living. The dynamics of this ratio over the last few years have shown a high rate of growth in the gap. At the same time, the central executive authorities are motivated by the appropriateness of making decisions on the underestimation of the minimum of living in the same size as those provided for in the State budget, and the left column is what is foreseen in the State budget. It was in order to overcome this gap that we proposed to the draft recommendations to review all the social benefits that are calculated on the basis of the subsistence minimum. Unfortunately, we prepared these recommendations in February, so we set a deadline for the implementation of this standard: April 1, 2020. I have a request to amend the words "by 2 April 2020" in paragraph 6 of Chapter III of the Recommendation when voting for these recommendations. Please support the committee’s decision to take these changes into account. And I also want to make a last slide of how big the living minimum is in the European countries we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u235	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please record two in favour, two in favor. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? There's a need. Please sign up: two in, two in. I invite national deputy Tzabal Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u236	Clemensque Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u237	Klimenka, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u238	Klimenko, the Voice faction. This is a very necessary recommendation. More importantly, these recommendations will be implemented by the government in real subsistence minimums and in real social guarantees for our population. The problem is that we see beautiful figures in 4,000 living quarters that can't be put into the budget and can't be paid off, because this money just isn't due to a weak economic policy, a completely lacking economic and virtually absent economy minister that we only see once in an interview in two months. So, colleagues, we can vote for spaceships, but it's very difficult to implement them. But let's see how the People's Servant party will implement this into real life. Thank you. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u239	Thank you. Please invite me to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Levychenka Valentina Alexandrovich, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u240	Please pass the word to Mr. Michael Cimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u241	Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u242	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, in fact, the decision is absolutely necessary, and the "Fatherland" faction had a professional discussion on the subject. What exactly is required in these recommendations of parliamentary hearings? By the way, there was also a difficult discussion. And we're talking about raising the minimum of living. But unfortunately, they're different from real ones, because the draft recommendations pointed out that the government has been tasked with taking measures to bring the living minimum to its real size in the 20th year, and it's about 4 thousand 251 bracelets. This figure also does not correspond to reality, because based on the 11.6 percent consumer price increase index, on average one person is expected in the second half of this year to have 4 thousand,549 living quarters per year. Because of this faction of Fatherland says that if these proposals are raised, we are ready to support our recommendations, but in this option, which is now, we are not ready. Moreover, the Paternity faction has prepared several bills, the authors of which are Timoshenko and a number of our colleagues, to amend the state budget for this year to increase the living minimum (number 1175). We ask for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u243	Thank you. Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u244	Pavlenko Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the right draft of the decree, good recommendations. The only question is, unfortunately, they'll stay on paper. Because a year ago, actually a year ago, today's government adopted a growing economy -- about 5 percent of GDP grew, with a clear perspective that poverty was finally hit not just, but finally to overcome poverty. Sadly, though, in the fall we saw the decline of industrial production. By the beginning of this year, before the Coronavirus, before any restrictions or quarantines, we had seen the fall of gross domestic product. And unfortunately, all the perspectives that the country had a year ago are actually destroyed. Therefore, of course, we will vote in favour of this decree. Of course, an audit is required. Of course, you have to count the real cost of living. But all of this will remain on paper until today’s authorities change their course, change their approach. And let people draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u247	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u248	Thank you. People's MP Papiev, the Opposition Platform for Life faction. You know, I, uh, listen to the speakers, yeah, and I really wanted to explain to them what social standards are, where they come from and what social guarantees they form. I'll just explain. Well, look at what a living minimum is, it's a valuable amount of a consumer basket. So this is a government standard, as a 1 meter unit, as a 1 kilogram unit. So today there's a consumer basket -- it's a list of food, non-food and services. It's the method, the value of the market, there's the methodology. And we get this social standard. In 2003, we introduced a rule in the Act on "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" that we have a minimum pension -- a social guarantee -- cannot be lower than a minimum of living. In 2006, I'm from this rostrum, and we've introduced into the Labour Pay Act that we can't have a minimum wage for working people. So now you've done a completely cynical thing since 2014, you've called the subsistence minimum a value that is twice the actual size of the subsistence minimum. And in fact, you don't pay every pensioner 2,000 dollars each working for 4,000 dollars. What are you doing? Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! So it's white, it's white, it's black, it's black. You take it and you call it black, white, black, and you don't pay people today. Today all social benefits are paid, they're taken from the minimum of living. You rob people, you rob children. Let's say once and for all, as we have it, that the minimum of living in the budget can't be less than the actual minimum of living. And that'll be fair. We're going to vote for social.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u249	Thank you. Motives include Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u250	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. A few comments. Colleagues, you know, the question of living minimum, it should unite this hall, first of all, but not disunity, because it was us who chose national deputies to improve the lives of all Ukrainians. By the way, what the "Paternity" party said today, it's already included in the recommendations that we're going to vote on today. What the representative of "The Opposition Platform for Life" said is also considered. And I looked at the infographics, and infographics says, you see, I have this text when there was a social gap with a real subsistence minimum and a nominal. So he started breaking up in 2014, and now we're going to fight with Trelyakowa, along with the people's deputies, to get us back to the real level of the living minimum. And we will do so in this parliamentary convening. So I ask you to unite in this matter, to vote on the recommendations, and to continue the fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u251	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Deputies and groups, I'm sorry. All of them? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and on the whole of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Problems in the formation of a living minimum in Ukraine" (Registration No. 2789). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:34:09]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Forming and Implementation of State Policy for the Restoration of Territorial Integrity and the Sovereignty of Ukraine" (Registration No. 2677). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:34:51]] For 255 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the national deputy. No discussion? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposal, the draft Decision amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Establishment and Implementation of State Policy for the Restoration of Territorial Integrity and the Sovereignty of Ukraine (Registration No. 2677). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:35:46]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by several members of the MP factions and groups to remove questions 2640 and 3056, 3066, 3096. If there is no objection, let us turn to the next question. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Regulation on changes in the composition of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the implementation of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Special Committee of External Debt Restructuring creditors in 2015 (registration number 2727). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:36:54]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we vote without discussion? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Decision on changes in the composition of the Interim Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct an investigation of the information on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Special Committee of creditors for the restructuring of external debt in 2015 (registration No. 2727). Please support and vote. [[14:37:42]] For 263 For 262, the decision is made. Sorry, 263, decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Media Law (registers 2693, 2693-1). Committee proposal, I'm on it. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:38:27]] For 222 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. I'll give my word to the committee head. Please tell me, will the authors insist? We can do this without discussion. Then the head of the committee, please. Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u252	Colleagues, there were a lot of discussions about this bill, we got dozens of calls from industry representatives, we had a three-day video conference with the Council of Europe. So far, structural additions are much needed, so it's better to send them out for the first readout. They apply to both the powers of the National Council and the regulation of online media and the introduction of many regulations, including community language, to the rules of the European Audiovisual Media Directive. But I'd like to give you a little more trailer. During this discussion, there were many objections to the introduction of such a concept as "animosity speech." For your information. Last week, the French Parliament adopted a law that regulates the language of hostility, the language of terrorists, including online media, and the obligation to clean up online platforms such as YouTube, Facebook, hostile language or fine – 1 million 250,000 euros. So the discussion is open, and I invite everyone to a further discussion on this issue. We're actually making these laws with Europeans. So is the alternative draft "2" for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, look at the situation: the committee has decided to send both bills for further elaboration. Listen, please. Both bills are both basic and alternative. But there's a proposal to support a basic draft for redrafting, some for rejecting. Is there any objection? Then, look, we put the first bill to the vote. If a decision is made, he goes to work. I bet. The discussion, "European Solidarity", insists on discussion. "European Solidarity", by Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these two bills, I'm a co-author, one of the co-authors of the alternative bill, they're in many ways similar, there's a lot of positive work. Differences were that our bill suggested leaving a list of individuals and a mechanism for blocking content that was directly or indirectly propaganda in nature. The difference was that we were against the obligation to register online media, such as the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal, but under the right of states to restrict the spread in Ukraine of those media that speak in anti-Ukraine. We also insisted on introducing in the bill rules on transparency of financing and transparency of ownership. We really agreed on a committee that, on the basis of two bills, one of them was the chairman of Mr. Alexander Tkachenko's committee, and this is a joint bill. That's why we support sending this bill for further work. If the first one is based on the first, if the second one is based on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u255	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer a draft Media Law (Registration No. 2693) to a committee to prepare for an ugly first reading. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:43:37]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Air Code to improve the administration of the national assemblies for each passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine and for each ton of cargo arriving or arriving at the airport of Ukraine (register No. 2424). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:44:21]] For 218. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure to Pavlovski Petr Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u256	Good afternoon! Pavlovsky Peter, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Air Code for the improvement of the mechanism for the administration of national assemblies for each passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine and for each ton of cargo shipped or arriving at the airport of Ukraine (register No. 2424). To date, the list and size, the order of payments of public congregations, and the manner in which the funds are used, are provided for by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’s decree of September 28, 1993. At the same time, it should be noted that according to article 92, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution, Ukraine is exclusively governed by the laws of Ukraine by the tax system Taxes and Congregations. This situation has led to numerous court disputes, blocking the arrival of public congregations for every passenger departing from Ukraine’s airport and for every ton of cargo being shipped or arriving at Ukraine’s airport, leading in turn to inadequate and unstable financing of the State Service. The main objective of the project is to define at the legislative level the characteristics of the administration of the State Assembly for each passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine and for each ton of cargo being shipped or arriving at the airport of Ukraine. The bill is in line with international practice, ensures the improvement of the existing mechanism for managing public assemblies for every passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine, and for every ton of cargo shipped or arriving at the airport of Ukraine. During the discussion at the committee meeting, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a prescribed draft law to be adopted on a basis and in general. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u257	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u258	This bill has been called upon, including the order of payment of public assemblies by various airlines with billions of debts to state companies, including before the Ukraine Movement. I want to remind you that this is the safety of our flights. And if we don't get the order, not all companies are going to pay for it, at some point we're just going to be banned from international flights, and we're going to have a huge budget gap. Colleagues, we'll be supporting in the first reading with further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u259	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u260	Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u261	Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u262	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, we really need to bring these congregations together and make changes to the Tax Code, I'm sorry, to the Air Code. Therefore, "European Solidarity" will support this bill and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u264	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? Please, People's Deputy Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u265	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, considering that I have little time, I will return to the question that is more interesting. People wrote a lot of comments to me about the minimum of my living. Look, there are laws of Ukraine, there is a Constitution of Ukraine. The laws set out all the social standards, social guarantees, social benefits for Ukrainian citizens. The laws! Not some kind of sub-legal act. Since the 14th year, and the team that's sitting right there in that part of the room, they've just sucked at people, and they've told people that we're taking the social standard, we're dividing it by half, and we're saying that this is a social standard -- an absolute lie that they're supposed to be responsible for somewhere, because they robbed every Ukrainian citizen of tens of thousands of dollars, not even dollars. Because when they had a minimum pension, they paid 945 dollars, and it was 1,000 900 dollars. So 1,000 dollars were taken from the most vulnerable people. This law again, what does it speak of? In fact, congregations were held illegally by humans, and the Constitution says that congregations, they can only be established by laws. And now you're taking it and you're legalizing fraud, manipulation, because people were illegally collecting that money. Then you go out and say, "People, you've been collecting money illegally, we're returning it to you, and now we're settling it, we're enacting the law." You take it again and you spit in people's eyes and you say it's raining. You take legalization of illegal law enforcement. What are you doing, reverend? Surrender! We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u266	It's a binoculars. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, today's plenary day we've cut a third of the bill. And apparently for the reason that there are no votes in the room. But as I look at today's Airspace Bill, I think we're living in another time, in other realities: that there's no quarantine in the world, we've already defeated all of the pandemics, and today most of the members of the Supreme Council who live outside Kiev have arrived here with comfortable airstrips. Friends, but that's not true. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" finds it unacceptable, in the face of a pandemic in the world, to consider reviewing and complicating the air transport process in Ukraine. The world’s aviation market has actually fallen to zero as a result of quarantine worldwide in the fight against the spread of the coronary disease pandemic. And there's no clarity when this market rises when you and I start flying in the usual way again, and our citizens start flying and resting abroad, and how we're going to pick up an internal airliner. No one even talks about the rate of national growth of airlines. It's only about whether these companies are going to restore jobs in which mode and how they're going to continue to survive under existing conditions and without going bankrupt. And what do we see in Ukraine? Instead of looking for all possible ways to stimulate the development of airlines, we are asked to introduce a significant additional fiscal burden on airline operations, to create a national assembly for each passenger, for each ton of cargo, to direct this to a newly created state-owned specialized fund for financing public spending on aviation and Ukraine's participation in international aviation companies. Don't you think we're broken up in the time we live with you? The proposed legislative initiative, we think, is completely ignoring the fact that aviation is an extremely capitalist business. And let's not bury this business to the end. Our MP group will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u268	Thank you. Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich. Then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u269	The Fatherland faction, Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich. Dear friends, this law, if you read it, I'm sure that unfortunately many of our colleagues have looked at it so diagonally, it's very simple, it makes double standards impossible. One airline, using the legal coalition that is now in law, has avoided payments, causing very substantial damage to the Ukrainian company itself, which should be financed according to our terms and conditions with all partners in aviation. This law states that payments must be made, and this will be guaranteed by this law. So our faction will support and vote in favour of this law, and we invite everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u270	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u271	Thank you. The Trust MPs will support this bill because it is designed to improve the existing mechanism and to bring together the public assembly of passengers and each ton of cargo used by airports in Ukraine. Costs derived from the adoption of the relevant bill can be used to finance aviation activities that can ensure the development of the sphere and the creation of conditions for the coronavirus epidemic when, as a result of simple aviation, millions of dollars are lost. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u272	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. The only, look, respected colleagues, the committee's proposal, both on the basis and in general. Ready? Based on what? I would like to propose a proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Air Code, to improve the administration of the national assemblies for each passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine and for each ton of cargo shipped or arriving at the airport of Ukraine (register No. 2424) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:55:45]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:56:15]] For 222 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I continue this meeting for 15 minutes, until the end of this matter. Needed to Be Discussed? They insist on discussing it. The reporter is Ukrainian National Deputy Bardina Marina Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u273	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'll ask the camera to turn on the video. [[Video recording broadcast]] Thank you, colleagues. As we know, on October 14, 2014, the President's decree in Ukraine marked the day of Ukraine's protector. For us, this day is important and memorable, a celebration set up to honor the courage and heroism of the defenders of Ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity, military traditions, and the victory of the Ukrainian people. Today, some 55,000 women are serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, most of whom have military rank, including officers. So, we, the inter-fractional "Equal Opportunities" union, have been approached by women from the Ukrainian Association of Law Enforcement Representatives, asking for a change, to work on the name "The Day of Ukraine's Defenders" on "The Day of Ukraine's Defenders" to show that, together with men, they stand side by side.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u274	There's no objection if we go through. Is there a need for discussion? Discussion. Herasimov insists on discussing it. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, at our meeting on November 29th, we considered the bill. The bill proposes the name of the State's Day of Protector of Ukraine to be replaced by "The Day of Defenders of Ukraine". The Committee generally supports the bill. The main scientific and expert administration, as well as Minust, support the adoption of the bill in the first reading, and perhaps on the basis of that, they have made such a comment, the deletion of paragraph 2 of the “Principal Regulations” in part of the granting of individual assignments to the President of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights proposes to adopt a bill on the basis and in general with the exception of paragraph 2 of the Final Regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u276	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u277	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to remind you that I am proud that it was the fifth President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, who instituted the celebration of the Day of Protector of Ukraine on October 14. October 14th, which is celebrated both as the Day of Creation of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, and as the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks, and as the Cover of the Virgin Mary of Ukraine. I am proud that we have been the government in which we raised for the first time a policy of protection of rights equal to the rights of men and women to a high level of government. I am pleased today to support this initiative of our colleagues from a monotonous point of view to rename the Day of the Defender of Ukraine as "the defenders of Ukraine." True, I would think it would be right to call this day "protectors and protectors," because Ukrainian language allows feministism, and then we would definitely give honor to Ukrainian defenders, and Ukrainian soldiers who protect us continue to guard against Russian aggression. At the same time, if Parliament's decision to just go to the plural, "to defend," I hope that the girls, the women who are standing next to the men in the protection of the country today, will also appreciate this step. Thank you. We will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u278	Vronov Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u279	I give the word to Lord Neclaud.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u280	Lord Neklud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, who are we? Let's face it, who are we men without women? We're a gray mass with no hope for the future. Because everything that was created in this world was created by or by women. Our women are the best in the world. They're beautiful, they're honest, they're amazing, they're the foundation of the stability of our lives, they're the symbol of a happy future. And it's not just men at the front, it's women at the front. They protect our Fatherland, our borders. They are examples of courage and heroism for both men and all Ukrainians. So Bill 2325 proposes to honor the courage and heroism of our women and to restore justice in our society. I would like to say to you, dear women, "We are so cold and sad without you all. Without you, everything loses color and meaning. You've got a violin instead of a heart. And you don't know that." And so, I think we are going to be voting for Bill 2325 for deep respect for you, for refusing all discrimination in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u282	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u283	Thank you. I think the previous speaker was reading poems like that at the election of the D.B.I. Manager, and it would be nice. I think so. As far as the Bill is concerned, the "Paternity" faction usually supports it in its entirety. What is more, the draft law does not reflect the purpose set out in the explanatory note. As far as I understand English, the word "protectors" means a lot of men. I fully agree with the first speaker who said that in order to reflect this goal, you would have to call this day "protectors and protectors," and then there would be no questions. But in one, and in another, the faction of "The Fatherland" fully supports this bill. And of course, we support the protection of the role of women in protecting our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u284	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, the authors of this bill, they meant one thing and they realized another. I would like the authors to learn Ukrainian. Protector is a male species. So the plural is going to be the protectors. If a woman is a protector. And in plural, there'll be protectors. That is, if they wanted to unite somehow to be gender equality and everything else, then other trends need to be taken into account, for there are those who do not recognize themselves as a man or a woman. So we had to move on then, and we had to call it the average: the Protecting Motherland. So, your honor, there's Ukrainian language, you take it, you consult it, and then you're going to have to draft such short drafts. So the goal is one, and the purpose is the curve as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u286	Samantha Anatolovna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u287	First, the Ukrainian woman has always been organically involved in the struggle for Ukrainian statehood, and especially the last twenty centuries has been confirmed. And I want to remind the previous speaker that a woman is going to defend, not so that the men are not cold and comfortable, but because she has the courage and strength to change her skirt to pants and get the same level as a man. Appreciate it and respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-19-m0.u288	Did everyone want to come out? Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on this bill. Here the committee recommended as a basis and as a whole. Based on that, yeah? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (Registration No. 2325). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:07:31]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
