ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for work. Good morning again to all the distinguished national MPs! Good morning, media officials! Please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? As always, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green pros or left button. First left. See, I'm wrong. Please vote and register. Please register. [[10:12:10]] There are 327 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. Dear colleagues, we have today. Dear colleagues. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Mikhail Mikhailovich! I'm sorry. Today is a great day for both the state and the Ukrainian Parliament. Today, 30 years of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. The country has experienced difficult times during all this time. There were victories. There were problems. There have been defeats. But we must remember our history. We must continue to have those traditions that were established in the Ukrainian Parliament, the traditions that allowed our country to be independent today, stayed, respected and be the basis on which we will build, return, protect our Fatherland. Once again, welcome to the feast. And today, there will be a solemn session, which has expressed desire and opportunity, I invite everyone. Once again, everyone with a holiday. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's get back to work. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich of two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u2	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, a few hours ago, I received a report from volunteers from Luhansk, from a terrible ashtray that will burn in hell with individual characters. The Luhansk volunteers are outraged by the intention of awarding the prize to the local fire chief, Michael Psik. They blame the leadership of the district DNS and the power structures for criminal negligence and corruption. The Trust MPs, as well as all the Lugansks, we demand a detailed investigation into both the causes of the fire and the free lack of it. And also to remove the district DSNS management from the positions occupied. First of all, help didn't come in time. On July 6, at 9: 00 a.m., a fire broke out at a site about two acres [1.5 ha], but only two cars arrived for a large - scale fire and only 10:30 a.m. At 1 p.m. the head of the Luganic firemen Michael Psik held a very important meeting with the construction of the garage, and on the other hand, he ignored the calls for the assistance of the foresters, referring to the lack of fuel-oil materials. Technology and fuel were found only at 3:30 p.m. when 50 acres [50 ha] of forest burned. At 8:30 a.m., the fire was located on 85 hectares, but the firemen were unable to finish the logs of the cut trees, as necessary, and the fire started with a new force. The president was told that the fire was localized on July 9, but the village of Bobra was still on fire yesterday. The lack of fuel-oil materials justifies the lack of timely management of the DSS. Interestingly, in 2018, as soon as Psik took up his duties, he transferred a thousand tons of fuel to the Donetsk region without returning them. What about fuel when there was no water in the fire department, since none of the seven pump stations in the area were involved. Even people from the risk zone did not warn of possible evacuation, and there was a gypsy radio. For all these crimes, the chief firefighter, as well as the leadership of the forces of the Luhansk region, must be brought to justice. The following DBRs have already been established that the officials of the General Directorate of DSNS in the Luhansk region have systematically violated the law, adopted state funds for their own purposes, bought apartments, expensive buildings at a crazed cost. Clearly, the consequences of the fire could not have been so disastrous, people could have been saved if officials were to carry out their duties on time. Because what we've been looking at is a whole lot of sand against Luhansk's fire system, a catastrophic sand. Thank you. There must be justice and full support for the Luhansk region because it is in a depressed zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u3	Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Ukrainians! From "European Solidarity," I want to welcome everyone to the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. This is a remarkable event that we're going to celebrate here in the hall today, but the declaration is not just a name, the declaration is also a content. And I want to remind you, what our declaration actually said about Ukrainian tradition, about Ukrainian language. It stated that the Ukrainian State ensures the national and cultural rebirth of the Ukrainian people, its historical consciousness and tradition, the function of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life. Restoring the Ukrainian state, one of the most crucial issues was the protection of the Ukrainian language, and it is an enormous cynicism that on this day when we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the declaration, a draft bill was scheduled to be destroyed in order to destroy the Ukrainian Language Act. Moreover, the destruction of the Education Act, because at the same time Act 2362 is a blow to both the Education Act and the Speech Act. And this is what happens here in the Ukrainian Parliament, when Ukraine protects its borders from the Russian aggressor. I want to make a very clear point: not from "that side," as President Zelenski says, but from "the Russian aggressor." And it's time to learn to call an aggressor an aggressor! For us, all Ukrainians, Ukrainian language is not just a question of humanitarianism, it's not just a question of culture, it's a question of security, because we know where the Ukrainian language is, it's Ukraine, because we understand that by protecting the Ukrainian state in advance, we are also protecting the Ukrainian language. And today thousands and thousands of Ukrainians have gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council to support the Ukrainian language. They came from all regions, not only from Volina, from Lucca, but also from Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, because they know that language unites. They are here with us today to prevent the bill from being considered to destroy the Ukrainian language. And I want to stress, "European solidarity," other Ukrainian forces in Parliament, we will do our utmost not to allow this bill to be considered today or tomorrow. And I call on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the "Serial of the People" faction to remove it from consideration, not to dissipate Ukrainian society, because language unites. Do not split Ukraine! Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u5	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (registration number 3648). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Needed to Discuss the Law? Ready to vote? I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:22:35]] For 229 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanishin Olga Anatolovna, is invited to attend. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u6	"I grew up and thought all my life that I was about to die, I was going to die, and I wasn't going to finish school, and I was going to die, and I never got married. I have always lived in this fear of death," says Irina, who at five years of age in Ukraine was diagnosed with hepatitis B and hepatitis C in blood transfusions. For 20 years, Irina had been able to cope with these diseases, and it was only through innovative treatment that she overcame them. Irina married, gave birth to a son, and lived a happy life today. But this story could not have happened in our country if the donor system were quality and safe. Daily, hundreds of Ukrainians need donor blood. They're oncomaly, they're in labor, they're in traffic, they're our military. But when their parents come to the hospital, they say, "There's no donor blood, go look for donors." Every day these people need to save their lives. 70 percent of donors in Ukraine are single donors who come into the system once and no longer return. Old equipment, chaotic systems, inefficient testing -- all of this characterizes the donor system in Ukraine. For 25 years, the legislation on blood donation has not changed. Today we need to change and bring our legislation closer to European standards. The Blood Donation Act is proposed. Donor blood will be quality and safe. We're introducing a license for donor blood. Donorship becomes more accessible, and we remove bureaucratic barriers for donors. The blood system will be controlled and effective, and there will be a clear distribution of functions at all levels. A register of blood donors will be created. And finally, blood donation will be voluntary and free, as recommended by international organizations. Colleagues, every third person on the planet for once in their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance to Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Health of the Nation, Medical Care and Medical Insurance at its meeting on June 17, 2020, reviewed the draft Law on the Safety and Quality of Donor Blood (registration number 3648). The bill is aimed at creating a legislative basis for the development of an effective blood system in Ukraine and the fulfilment of Ukraine's international legal obligations under the Association Agreement and the implementation of the blood system development strategy by 2022. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine expressed a number of comments to the bill that could be removed when preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading. At the same time, after discussing the individual provisions of the bill, the committee considers it necessary to ensure the fullness of the legal settlement of the question of the implementation of the State private partnership in this area to supplement section VIII, Section VIII, “Towards and Transitional Positions”, with a new sub-item: “Participation of the first article 4 of the Law on Public-Private Partnership” to supplement with a new paragraph: “Blood donation and blood components, food, processing, testing, storage, distribution and implementation of donor blood and blood components”. As a result of the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, the adoption of Law 3648 on the basis of the Committee's proposals on the need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on State-Private Partnership, which were not considered in the first reading in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, shorten the deadline for the submission of legislative proposals and amendments to the bill by subjects. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Sukhov Alexander Sergiyyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u10	Thank you. A billiard please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u11	Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Dear Ukrainians! The Trust Group will have to support this bill because it had to be adopted in 2011 when we signed the Association Agreement with the European Union and in fact committed ourselves to the obligation to ensure blood security. But stretching out with this law was worth the lives of people and health. So far, we have huge problems with hepatitis B and S infection. The main places are our hospitals, the question is silent. WHO says that 2 million people in Ukraine are infected with hepatitis B and C. It's a pandemic, it's even worse than the coronavirus, because 80 percent of people don't know they're sick. The main areas of infection. People are not just those who are treated in drug dispensers, they're oncological children, they're children who have haemodialysis, and people who have haemodialysis, they're our military personnel. We're transfusing infected blood. And that's because we don't have a normal test. And even if we enter a state partnership. State-private partnership, and even if we provide a donor register, and even if we make it voluntary, it won't work until the state allocates money for normal testing. Do you know how they test us? We're testing the IFA with express methods, which, you know, when the coronavirus is, they're espresso tests, 50 percent sensitivity. We have to introduce PLR testing to hepatitis, or we're going to continue to infect our people. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. He's good, he's putting in the right things, he's going to provide us with some problems with administration, management, funding that are, he's going to remove them and make the blood security system in Ukraine normal, according to European standards. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u14	The bill proposes to recognize that the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components has become invalid. It will also meet the requirements of the Agreement on the Association and Development of the Blood System, which will allow for the reform of the blood system in Ukraine, taking into account better European standards and practices. I agree with my previous colleague. Indeed, we have a huge problem with the quality of blood in our extreme, and we can change that. Our faction will support this bill, and please support everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Anna Constantine's speedboat. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, by the spring of this year, I had always felt that the subject of medicine was not mine. I, a humanities education, have never encountered, except in the case of rare raids to a hospital with global problems affecting the lives of millions, until I became ill with COVID-19. And I got curious after I got better, and how can I help other people? And very simply, they told me, check your antibodies, if the antibodies G are big, give up your plasma, it can help other people. I did it last Monday. And he found that during this period of the pandemic in Ukraine, when 55,000 Ukrainians became ill, the Ukrainians gave up only 70 liters of plasma to help other people. It's about volunteering. I began to dig further. I began to find out, and what is the deadline for the quarantine of plasma and blood in Ukraine? And it turns out that since 2005, the period of quarantine given to Ukrainians for use in Ukraine has been six months and in the West, up to a month. Why? And because our blood transfusion stations are using pre - Flood methods to analyze this blood. Because in order to overcome and eliminate potential dangers that the donor does not yet know about, it's being tested by methods that no longer exist in the world, and in the European Union with which we stole the deal, long ago. It's a controversial bill. But in the first reading, he needs to be supported. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" and invites colleagues to join in processing this bill for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u17	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u18	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Do a little analysis. When a bill is reported to you and you see that the author begins to refer to the Association Agreement with the European Union, to some European commitments by Ukraine, you should know that this bill seeks to steal something. Look at this bill, here's a lot of people who say there's donorism in Ukraine. Yes, there was a normal donation in Ukraine until it was destroyed. What are they doing with this bill? The bill does not create an investor in Ukraine, does not improve conditions, but simply what was public is called private. In addition, you can read that the law obliges public and municipal enterprises to provide free premises, equipment, and equipment for this private householder. So this is actually the law establishing the privatization of donorism in Ukraine. And one more thing. What inhumanity there could have been. become the authors of this law. Look, they're -- they're canceling out the extras and extras for students, military personnel, students. This law basically eliminates a 10% pension allowance for honorary donors. So actually what's going on here, the reverends, the one who's going to vote, you think about it, and the authors say, we need the state to allocate the money. Not enough that they want to privatize the donor, they want to do more for the government money, they want to give it all to them, and they want people to take this blood for free, and they don't even give a pension allowance. Do not vote on this law. And our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is going to vote against it, not just to hold on, but against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u19	Krasnosil Anastasia Olegovna And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ah, the Voice, yes, the motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to inform you that the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy was considering this bill yesterday at its meeting. And the conclusion of the committee is that the bill corresponds to anti-corruption legislation and does not contain corruptive factors. The committee has made a number of comments to this bill, we will work to remove these remarks from the second reading of the bill. In general, colleagues, I would like to support this bill and stress that the activity of private subjects in the field of donorism is already permitted under the law. The only goal of this bill is to ensure that people receive blood and blood components free of charge. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u21	Password? Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. And then we move on to the vote, invite the people's deputies to the hall. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Just recently, literally two weeks ago, I was a blood donor, and at our national center, I was giving blood to Ana Jouk -- a plate that is now sick. And you know, when I was giving blood, I was talking to the people at the blood center, asking if they were supporting the initiative. What did they say? They are absolutely supportive because it is important to raise standards on this subject, it is important to raise quality, it is important to work to make donation in the country the norm, so that the quality of blood increases, so that we all remember, every Ukrainian who saves three lives, and that is the most important thing, and that is to be popular. And the initiative of Oli Stefanishina and her colleagues not only helps to promote donorism but also helps to improve quality. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis, with the proposal of the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in preparation for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:38:38]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has requested a cut in time. I am voting for a proposal to cut half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading in accordance with article 16 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:39:19]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the appointment of Shevchenk Kiril Evgenovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (Registration No. 3857). The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, President of Ukraine pursuant to article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of Shevchenk Kiril Evgenović as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. On behalf of the President, please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u25	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, there is another suggestion to consider the matter. A statement by the President's representative, then a statement by the candidate in office, within three minutes, then a question. One question is one answer from each faction, from the national MPs, and the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Either speak from factions, or question. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Either that or so, let's choose. I think it's a better question, that's what it's going to be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Showcases? Then the candidate's speech, then the factions, the MPs, and the vote. It's a deal. Please, a reputable candidate. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! In the end. A committee presentation at the end. Yes, it is. Kirilo Evgenovich, you. You're not going to perform? Maybe it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I thank you for your high trust in me. I want to say that over the last six years, the National Bank has gone through an institutional development path. With the support of our international partners, an independent central bank has been built to ensure the macroeconomic stability of the banking system and the economy. During recent quarantines, the banking system confirmed its maturity, which was certainly a major part of the regulator. Ukraine's economy is starting to get out of quarantine, but it's continuing stagnation, and you know better than I do all the GDP expectations. And I want to focus very closely on the concrete steps that the National Bank can take with this situation. First of all, I certainly support the NBA policy of ensuring the macroeconomic, macro-financial stability of the banking system. In achieving the goals of macroeconomic stability and sustainable development, the instrument of inflation targeting has already demonstrated its effectiveness. Over the years, this tool has shown that it is effective under a number of conditions. When Ukraine faced the devaluation of the national monetary unit in 2014 - 2016, inflation policy helped stabilise the financial sector. However, under the current conditions, this instrument should be consistent not only with macroeconomic stability but also with the creation of conditions for further economic growth in the country. Secondly, the National Bank will continue its efforts to increase the financial stability of banks, including by strengthening its work with a share of the problem credits in the banking system, which is now 48 percent. In government banks, 49 percent, foreign investment banks, 32.5 percent, private banks, about 20 percent. Because of COVID, there's a certain increase in even this percentage. But I remain optimistic, I want to say that the National Bank can find.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u27	No, I'm sorry. Kirilo Evgenovich, there'll be people's deputies here and then I'll be insulted if I give you time, excuse me. Thank you. Please. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MP factions and groups for three minutes. Kovalov Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u28	Please pass the word to the alien Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u29	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, a distinguished candidate! The key requirements for the Head of the National Bank, on the one hand, are the continuation of the useful work that was done during the management of the previous warehouse, the previous checker. In particular, this involves ensuring the stability of the national currency, targeting inflation, the stability of the banking system, and avoiding crises in the field. This is what we give due consideration to our previous leadership. On the other hand, the key is to increase the level of lending to the economy, implement cheap money policies, stimulate commercial banks and lend to the real sector. This was clearly lacking in the previous policy of the National Bank. Nazbank, I stress, must remain such an island of stability in this country, maintain its apolitical, professional and independent conduct. The new head of the NBA should ensure the implementation of the NBA’s 2020 action programme, which is an annual road map for the implementation of the Central Bank’s medium-term strategy. This will ensure the predictability and consistency of the National Bank’s activities and provide a basis for measuring the effectiveness of the new checker’s work. The Trust Group will support the assignment while monitoring the effectiveness of the new leader's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u31	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Opposition Platform for Life is against the National Bank policy that has been taking place in Ukraine for the last six years. Against that team that was under external control, against Pink and Pottery, against the total poverty of the population of the country, against the killers of 105 banks, against other things, galloping inflation, the record devaluation of the national monetary unit. Our party will support Mr. Shevchenk's candidacy for the Head of the National Bank, because we are opposed to the Foreign Office. We stand against what our successful economy has made a poor, poor, technologically backward economy, an agrarian colony of more developed countries. Therefore, the team that is now located and serving in the National Bank has no right to exist. And to a new head, to a future, maybe we want to offer and say. We expect you to be stable in the course of money. We're waiting for those macroeconomic parameters that you're proposing to help restore the economy by 2013 or by 2004, if you can. We expect a stable accounting rate of 0.25 percent, as is the case in the countries of the European Union. And what's more, we're waiting for the settlement of the problematic loans that the citizens of Ukraine took -- mortgages, leases, others, 4.99, and we have to pay 26.9. You have an obligation to solve their problems for the rest of their lives. Another very important moment. We understand with you that there have been critical things here over the past six years, and that requires clarity and a solution to the issue of withdrawing $100 billion from the national financial and banking system. We have to have both a political and a professional legal evaluation of who, where, how did you get this money out of the national economy? We have to get answers for that failed financial policy that went on for six years. Once again, our team will support a change in the financial and banking systems so that our economy has a future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, from the Voice faction, please invite Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, let us begin with the procedure and compliance with the Rules. Does the procedure apply when a candidate is introduced at night and you are forced to vote for him in the morning? Is this normal cooperation with Parliament? Is the procedure consistent with the fact that in no faction, in any of them, including the Servants of the People, was it possible to offer a candidate to come to the faction and present his position? Do I fit the procedure, and now I'm talking to my coalition colleagues when you're promised on Thursday a faction to represent the candidate, and by Thursday morning, you're forced, without knowing who you're voting for, to press the green button? And look, the factions of "The Opposition Platform for Life" gave them the opportunity when they were so actively supporting it, and something Mr. President had completely forgotten about the coalition. And the last. Is the procedure in which a candidate is introduced without the availability of declarations and other things that are explicitly required by law, so that the Supreme Council can even consider this issue? I'm sure if you think about how this decision has been made to us right now, which dialogue the President's Office has with Parliament, the answer to how to vote for the candidate, whatever his last name, will be clear: it's like a yellow minimum. I'm sure we can find a proper candidate, and this Parliament is capable of it. But let's see why they released the past leadership: because they want to speed up inflation, so that our people can pay more because they want to lower their fees, so that some oligarchs can pay less to their employees and make more money. And so, probably because they wanted to find a dialogue or compromise with one famous oligarch for a famous bank called Private Bank. And I'm sure that such haste, in violation of procedures, in violation of the requirements of the law says that the main requirement for the National Bank, namely the independence of the National Bank, will not be met today. And that's why the Voice faction won't vote for Mr. Shevchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u35	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u36	Tymoshenko, the Fatherland faction. Dear friends, I hope we all understand that this is not just a vote for the Head of the National Bank, you understand that today's Supreme Council is a key issue in Ukraine's life at all. And we will choose between whether the National Bank will be part of the reconstruction of Ukraine, part of the economic recovery, part of the financial cleansing, part of the national central policy, in general the life of Ukraine, or whether there will be what has been the last six years. What's been going on for the last six years? This is the external administration of the National Bank. You know very well that no independence of the National Bank was involved. The National Bank was made independent of the Ukrainian State, but the National Bank was completely dependent on global speculative structures, and unfortunately it was not easily played, and it did so by our domestic policy, unfortunately. And so today, as a faction of the morning, knowing that this is a matter of strategic importance for Ukraine, we met today with the Head of the National Bank, and the faction had the opportunity to ask all the key questions to the candidate. We asked only four questions. First question. Will the National Bank continue to serve speculative foreign owners, or will it become Ukrainian? And that means a radical change in politics. It's the European value of loans, it's the European availability of loans, it's a complete remedy for what people and the middle class have done forever, they take away apartments, offices, businesses. Will corruption in the Deposit Guarantee Fund end, where for 1 percent they sell to their people everything that's possible, whatever they confiscate in the middle class, will it be different? The second question. Will he get rid of those people who destroyed the National Bank and Ukraine for six years inside the National Bank? Four. Will he take the necessary steps to close the financial pyramid, deposit certificates, and send money to the economy? And the last. Will it contribute to the interim commission of inquiry to be established in the Supreme Council for the Investigation of Crime and Corruption over the past six years at the National Bank of Ukraine? We got a positive answer to all the questions. And so I urge the House to try to vote on the new head and the new strategy of the National Bank. Glory to Ukraine! We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u37	Heroic glory! Eugene Nina Petrovna. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u38	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear Mr. Shevchenko, I am addressing you. The whole Ukraine is looking at you right now. You can also see Vladimir the Great, Jaroslav the Wise, John Mazepa, Mikhailo Gruszewski, Lesia Ukraine, Taras Shevchenko – all those prominent Ukrainian actors who are depicted on our national monetary unit. Don't let it get to you. Don't let me turn this into a new 95 block ticket. Don't let the national currency take away what no one needs. It's in your hands. What must we do about it? You're supposed to be zero percent of Zelensky's man! Zero percent of Zelensky's man. Because you have to be independent. First, lock Zelensky’s cell phone on your phone because you will be called and asked to print money. By no means do you have the right to do so, for every Ukrainian, every single one of us, every person whose pocket has a Ukrainian bracelet, will now depend on you. And you have a responsibility to the entire nation and to all of these actors, the Ukrainian significant ones, for what will be with our national currency unit. Look at Zelensky's personnel policy. Today, we will again be invited to serve on the Antimonopoly Committee as the principal of the firm for which Greensky’s villa is formed. Again his friends, again his brothers, brothers, neighbors. This will only lead us to one, only to disaster. We don't have to let that happen. I have one question, dear friends, and where is Zelenski himself? We are now discussing such important issues: the head of the National Bank, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Vice Prime Minister. Where is he? Ukrainian presidents have always come to represent the Head of the National Bank to explain their choice. There's no green. He's scared. He's afraid to come into this room because he'll hear the truth. He'll hear the truth about how he, you know, when we're wearing summer clothes, summer shorts, we find 50 bracelets and we're looking forward to it, so Zelensky went into his summer shorts for a five million GDP that he just forgot to declare. And today he's become a real corrupter, he's been telling us so much about corruption that he himself has become a corrupter when he has to be incorporated into the national register of corrupters. He can't come and tell me that I'm going to go and give the place to the kids, and he finally gave it to his kids, and he went to the state residence in Concha-Sleep. And now he's sitting in Concha-Sleep watching us. That's why I'm addressing you, Volodymyr Zelensky. You said a year ago (I quote a living classic) "get out of here, thief" to an official. Now, on behalf of the people of Ukraine, I'm telling you, get out of here, thief, stop embarrassing Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u39	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Today we are discussing a very important issue: the election of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. It is essentially a person on whom it will depend, how the banking sector of Ukraine will move and develop in the next seven years. You've seen how many times before I spoke on behalf of our "For the Future" MP party that the previous leadership of the National Bank was completely unqualified. It was the management that robbed the banks, it was the management that started the OCHA schemes and so on, that robbed the state budget, the bank budget, it was the management that basically robbed the banking sector, people, deposits and allowed the assets of those banks that were destroyed. And today we have to appoint a new head of the National Bank. Our MP's Party for the Future will support Cyril Evgenovich Shevchenk. I can say that we unanimously made this decision because we know this person, we know that he's extremely professional, and he's a pragmatist who actually ran commercial banks in Ukraine, who really understands what the banking sector is. Kirilo Evgenovich, an extraordinary loan of trust to you, is extremely high expectations. We expect that it will be easier to get credits for business, there will be no crazy conditions that banks are forced to do for the execution of the National Bank's orders, when you have to collect hundreds of kilograms of paper in order to get at least a bracelet from any commercial bank. We know you're going to deny it. We expect you to cover up the benches that existed at the National Bank after the withdrawal of capital from Ukraine and allow you to enter Ukraine with powerful investment banks, foreign banks, so that people can finally get extremely cheap and long loans for apartments, for construction, for business. We expect you, Kiril Evgenovich, to be supported by the Ukrainian industry, to have targeted programs that work with extremely cheap and long-term hardware loans, to create new jobs, to have a real banking sector in Ukraine and to have a breath of life. So you have outstanding respect and support. We expect you to make real changes in the banking sector, truth, justice, cheap loans, opportunities for young people, for every family in Ukraine to buy a place to live, take money for business, support the Ukrainian industry, and finally give the Ukrainian banking sector a chance to stand on its feet. We will vote for you and call for a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u41	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u42	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This morning, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs held a committee meeting to hear and consider Kiril Evgenovich Shevchenk's candidacy as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Most of the votes were supported by the committee. Why did I personally vote "yes" and call for a vote for a colleague? Because to this position, I think there are several requirements: this person should be a banker. Shevchenko is a banker to the bone, working his life in banks in various positions, making a career from economist to bank head, one of the country’s most powerful banks. It's a reputation, it's a respect in the banking environment, which among others has recommended to the President and this candidature, and it's respect in the external markets, among our international partners, who also take this person for his professionalism, for his reputation. What do we need to do, and what do we require of a person who will be in office? Of course, we must preserve all the positive things that have been done by the National Bank in previous years. We have to keep the monetary stability, we have to keep the trend in the last year to reduce the Nitzbank account rate and multiply it as well as inflational stability. We need to preserve the stability of the banking system, which has been given to our country so dearly -- through the withdrawal of more than a hundred banks from the market. But in all of this, we have to provide credit, we have to provide blood for our economy -- cheap credit. The bank has to understand that it doesn't exist in a vacuum that price stability is the main but not the sole goal of the National Bank, and it can't achieve that goal to the detriment of others. The Bank should seek a balance between interests and partners and society and states. The questions that Chevchenko gave a definite answer to, I want to dispel the myths: inflation will be gone, uncontrolled emissions will be gone, the independence of the National Bank will be preserved and multiplied. That's what we heard on the committee, that's what we just heard in the hall. So I ask everyone to support Mr. Shevchenk Kiril Evgenovich with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Please sign up for the speeches by the national MPs. Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Shah's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u45	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u46	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, of course, the banking system is not just a regulator, it's the heart of our state. And 28 years in our country are collapsing. The main thing in today's reign is that the head of Kiril Shevchenk, whom we choose, has no shocks, and vice versa, is to build a banking system and restore the confidence of the population in banks that have lost confidence in virtually every Ukrainian during the 6 years of the war. I am convinced that Kirilo Shevchenko, as a professional leader, will be able to restore the future of our country and the banking system and restore trust to every Ukrainian. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. After that, my dear colleagues, after Kachura, we move on to the committee's speech, and we move on to voting for the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u48	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Respectable Ukrainians, respected Ukrainian citizens, colleagues! Dear Kirilo Evgenovich! In fact, the Head of the National Bank is exactly one of the key positions in the Ukrainian state. And the first thing the new Head of the National Bank of Ukraine has to do is to carry out an audit of all the decisions made by the previous heads of the National Bank of Ukraine: about the "bankopod" on how Ukrainian citizens were robbed, and they have not received their deposits to date, whether this has been done purposefully. It was a deliberate policy of the previous head of the National Bank. You don't have to go through with it, you have to put a dot on the question of work for someone else's interests. The head of the National Bank of Ukraine must be governed solely by national interests, exchange stability, the NBA account rate, which will allow for low-cost lending to the enterprise. This is a mortgage for Ukrainian citizens, this is what we promised voters during the election campaign. I think today's vote should be historic. And I positively appreciate Shewchenk's candidacy as the person who came really down. Since you're going to head the regulator, you know what happens in the banking facility that you've led and passed all the pillars. There is a positive experience of such assignments. You remember that once Victor Andryovich Yushchenko also came from the commercial bank of Ukraine and became Head of the National Bank, and he was an effective manager. Then the story turned out to be different. But I think few can say right now that he was the inefficient Head of the National Bank. So on behalf of the "Slut of the People" faction, personally, Kirilo Evgenovich, I wish you success. And this is a very high responsibility that you are taking on today. You have to understand that. And I'm asking all my colleagues in faction and Parliament to support this because this is not a candidate vote, it's a vote for the stability of the Ukrainian economy. That's the most important thing we have to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Now. You've all made your point. The position of the committee is now in place. And let's go to the vote. The question you asked can be checked again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I repeat what I have already said from this rostrum. We met at 9 a.m. today with a committee to support Mr. Shevchenk's candidacy as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We've just been told from this rostrum that this candidature is coming down by the President and is not being discussed on factions. But I want to remind my colleagues that Mr. Shewchenk's candidature is actually being discussed in society for several weeks. Along with other candidates, of course. But the myths that were invented around him are discussed. Because it's a good Ukrainian tradition, if there's nothing wrong with a person, make it up, and they'll believe it. This is also positive information about him as an expert, about the person who made herself in the banking sector. That is why, on the basis of these motives, myself and my colleagues supported this candidacy as Head of the National Bank. Please support our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. The procedure is not in this format. Dear colleagues, you've had your performances, your performances from the factions. The procedure between questions is either discussion, or. That's absolutely right. Please prepare to vote again. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Not like that. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3857) on the appointment of Shevchenk Kiril Evgenovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:15:14]] For 332 Decision taken. Hello, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 40, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 21, "Party for the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 17, "non-factional" – 13. Thank you all again, dear fellows. The next question of the agenda is the draft Decree. I'm sorry. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be relieved of its position as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 8 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be released on time from the Supreme Council’s office on behalf of his personal claim. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Veacheslav Vasilovich, wrote a statement. The statement is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u52	The Honorary Presidium, the distinguished National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the statement made by the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Art Council, Mr. Vácheslav Vasilovich, to release him from office. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the provisions of the Rules, which have just been proclaimed by the Head of the Supreme Council, are the mandate of Parliament to appoint and release the Chief Agent of the Apparatus. And the head may be suspended from office for a term of office by the Supreme Council on his personal application or on a reasoned proposal by the head or at least one third of the national deputies from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. An order to be released from office as Head of the Apparatus is made by an open-ended roll call vote. In summary, the committee supported the statement of the Chief of the Apparatus of Art Viacheslav Vasilovich, and the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, submitted to Parliament a draft Decree (registration 3850) on the release of artificial Vyacheslav Vasilovich from office of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is proposed to be considered and in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council Rules to be adopted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, an address from the MP factions and groups. Can we vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I bet. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, according to article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3850) on the release of artificial Viacheslav Vasilovich from office as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote? Take your seats, please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:19:15]] For 307 Decision taken. Thank you, Vyachelav Vasilovich, for your work, for your work, for your work, and for your colleagues. Show the factions, please. I wish you success in a new direction. [[Applause]] "People's Servant" – 211, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 34, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "The Party for the Future" – 14, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 3. Thank you again, dear fellows. For reasons, no, I'm afraid not. No, your honor, there's no motive. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the appointment of Sands to the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (registration number 3856). According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 13 July 2020, an application for the appointment of Sand Olga Stanislavina as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. You're all given the right materials. Dear colleagues, the next order of business is proposed. The statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, within 2 minutes, will be delivered by the candidate for office for up to 3 minutes. Next question or statement. Presentations from MPs and groups, six minutes away from the Ukrainian National Deputies, two minutes from the Committee and a vote. Is there no objection? The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u54	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! For the consideration of the Supreme Council, a candidate is proposed for the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Sand Olga Stanislavna. To the new head of the Antimonopoly Committee, of course, as with all of us, there are requirements for efficiency, for objectivity, for noninvolvement in making decisions in the first place. In fact, the faction had the opportunity to get to know the candidate, she was famous, she worked, and she has quite a lot of experience working on the Antimonopoly Committee. I will therefore ask for the support of this candidate. And according to article 85, part one, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, he proposed the appointment of Sand Olga Stanislavina as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, a candidate for the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Pishtanska Olga Stanislavna, is invited to the floor. Olga Stanislavina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Good afternoon, distinguished deputies of Ukraine, representatives of the public and the media! It is a great honor for me to be represented as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Behind my shoulders is the experience of working in a powerful and industrial production, my own business, for almost 10 months I have been serving as the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, which is why I understand the challenges facing the Antimonopoly Committee today as a competitive authority, and I understand the extent of the responsibility of the Committee for the Economic Development of Ukraine and the well-being of our citizens. The main priorities of competition policy for the near future are to deal with the abuse of existing monopolies and cartels, the use of tools, the reduction of market entry barriers, the cessation of anticompetitive action by authorities, the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the committee, and the reform of the public procurement body. A few words about my plans of action. With regard to improving the current activity of the committee. It's to focus on priority markets for the economy of society. Here we will cooperate with authorities, business associations, and consumers. Start a mechanism for effective cooperation with colleagues from public authorities to minimize restrictions on competition by authorities themselves. This will allow business-friendly conditions to be created and will contribute to Ukraine's increasing authority in general. Enhancing international cooperation of the Antimonopoly Committee. By the way, complete the entry of the Antimonopoly Committee into the OECD Competition Committee. Complete territorial reform and ensure the proper functioning of all Committee bodies in all areas and areas of Ukraine. An important resource for Ukraine. The issue of informing the work of the organs is also on the agenda. Every year, the Antimonopoly Committee creates a lot of market research, resulting in very important unique information, and it can be useful to other authorities involved in economic development. As far as legislative initiatives are concerned. In this, we already have a bill, several bills, with the help of our Western partners with the EU and the US. It's a bill on competitive reform that will allow mechanisms to be put in place to detect and stop cartel activities, the irreparability of punishment, the failure to monopolize markets. There is also a bill on reforming the body of indictments, there is a bill on improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question from the MPs. On behalf of the MP factions and groups. Please, you can take your place now. Candidate, take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u58	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u59	You know, dear fellows, I'm a little fed up with Eugene Koshov from 95th Street: he can't get a job for a year! What's going on after all? What did he do to President Zelenski? This is his friend, an eternal partner in intermediation, at the piano, well, maybe with someone else, but we almost played together. The entire "95th quarter" has already moved to Bankovo, 11, which has already become "95th quarter", judging from what comes out of there: then the Lutsk region will appear, then Lithuania and Latvia will get confused, Slovakia and Slovenia, and in principle, maybe "what difference" policies. And in the Supreme Council, there's at least 5 of the 95th quarter and a bunch of coffeemakers. What's the result? As a result, we receive laws that conflict with one another when their standards are adopted. That's how the last of the game's legislation is two opposite things in one bill. Because people are appointed, not by the principle of professionalism, but by the principle of personal devotion. From now on, it's exactly the same situation. Yes, Zelensky promised that there would be no camaraderie, the roller coaster wrote down, and he actually made a promise: The best man did not appoint, appoint friends, now appoint a neighbor or a sister neighbor. What was she now known for? She headed a limited society a year ago, and now she's head of the Antimonopoly Committee. You can imagine what decisions are there and what important issues are being raised at this level, and it takes knowledge, not being a student, as it is now. So once again, I want to say that what we do today is we assign friends, neighbors of Zelensky, people, not professionals, but addicts and listeners. And that's why the Ukrainian economy is now going to a standstill, which is why the financial system is now almost ruined, and in the budget, it's a hole in the size of stupidity, which is often taken from its 95-quarter scene. And the whole country is turning into a comic state that they're already laughing at in the world. Yeah, maybe let's stop this and finally show that the Supreme Council won't do Zelensky's errands and appoint neighbors and childhood friends, and finally maybe show its power and tell the President "no" if he can't figure out what he wants and what he wants.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u60	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the Antimonopoly Committee is one of the most important bodies in this country, on which it depends, on what the tariffs will be for the population, on which it depends, on what the prices will be in the stores, on which it will be equal access and competition in our country. Without exaggeration, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee can change most of the things that have a negative impact on our economy. And, without exaggeration, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee is the person on which it depends, on which side our economy is going to move: or on the side of the oligarchy and monopolies that will only develop, ripping off our people's last money, closing markets, violating all Ukraine's obligations, both external and internal; or developing into a competition side – where every citizen can create his own business, develop it, earn decent money and have no barrier to the state. And all of this depends on how much the Antimonopoly Committee is an independent institution. And the main question to the candidate is how independent she is, especially from the President; how much she can say "no" when she asks not to consider certain things about monopolies, for example, in energy; how much she can say "no" when she discusses certain issues about the distribution of certain subordinate goods; how much she can say "no" when the issue of State support is being considered. And we don't have an answer for that yet. There are only rumors or biography that show that unfortunately, in the independence of the candidate, we have doubts. Unfortunately, we do not see the possibility that the issue of the compulsory distribution of monopolies will be quickly accepted in the Supreme Council. We don't see any change in how we have the personal responsibility of people who create cartels, but we see a change of names from one of the last powers to another, to their own countrymen, and hopefully even professional people. That's why the Voice faction is not going to support this candidacy today. It's a matter of coalition. We just hope that your attack on independent institutions will end this year. Although we have doubts about this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u62	Abdullin. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. In fact, there is now going to be a historic vote. Because the institution that we're going to choose now is a key institution in a state that determines whether the country is still a country that is ruled by monopolies, where illegal entrepreneurs, where there's no competition, where gas prices continue to go up, even when global markets are falling, it's going to be a country where antitrust legislation will eventually take effect, whether it's going to remain a country that's going to be an out-of-control country, where it's going to decide who's going to be in what position and how to solve the question of monopolists. We will now determine with you whether this policy will continue to be followed by large monopolies when the citizen is no one. And I think, unfortunately, that Mr. Zelensky's candidacy cannot deal with the great task that lies ahead. For a few reasons. First reason. Regrettably, the Antimonopoly Committee should be a truly independent body that cannot be pointed out by those associated with family ties with the Presidential Administration and best man will prove what needs to be done. It must be an organ that should not be afraid to put into place the monopolies who dictate today the terms and prices of energy resources, the prices of any other goods, because our country in this regard has become an outpouring country. That's why the "Fatherland" faction, taking a firm stand against the continuation of bestiality policy, will vote against it. We encourage the Hall to deal with what tasks rely on the Antimonopoly Committee to be an organ that can actually make a competitive environment in the state. The Fatherland faction believes that today this candidature is one that does not meet the requirements. Do you not see what is being created in all the markets in Ukraine, where there should be real control, where antitrust legislation should work? Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to make changes for the better with such a candidate. That's why the Fatherland faction will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u64	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u65	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today many have said, let us return to the earth and pay attention to this enormous position that can regulate prices. Everyone knows my position and my command. It would have been my will, and I would have turned the monopolies into a state -- gas, electricity, water, transportation -- so that there would be normal government regulation, not entrepreneurs who are twisting the hands of Ukrainians today. But unfortunately, there is no such thing in our country. So today there is a huge responsibility on the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Let's see again what's going on in the food market. Why is the potato today associated with Egypt? Why is meat today related to Brazil? Why are people in our country starving today? Why does a simple, ordinary peasant today have to sell for 2,800 and grow for 4,000 dollars? Why is there a $3.50 worth of milk in the villages today, 4 bracelets, and 40 pennies per litre in stores? Who regulates these prices? Why is it that 20 percent of the daily and even more so for bread, butter, and many other foods increase in prices? Why are people paying 10 times more for tariffs today? Everyone criticizes and says: decommunization. When I was young and happy, we paid two kips for gas, two kips for water, two kips for electricity. Today, some people pay $90 a kilowatt, not looking at the cost of external electricity of 2.62, 4 times the cost. More expensive for schoolchildren in public schools, more expensive in kindergartens. For example, in the Supreme Council today. And this is regulated by the Antimonopoly Committee. Today’s great burden rests on your shoulders, a great responsibility. Will it be legal in our country or not? Will the oligarchs still turn their hands to the common Ukrainian? Will the State return to the common people for the 5th article of the Constitution? The government belongs exclusively to the people of Ukraine. We will definitely support your candidacy. But please do your duty by law and do not look at the President or the Parliament. Trust MP, Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u66	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u67	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will not vote and support the candidate. Why? The Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee is the highest government body with special status to provide State protection in the field of competition. Will this happen? Addressing the candidate, Mrs. Olga. Mrs. Olga! You see, we don't even have a candidate right now who can find time and listen to the national MPs who are speaking. Mrs. Olga, I'm calling you for the third time. Why didn't you find an opportunity and find time to meet all the factions and MPs? How can you present your program, your team, your vision in three minutes? I listened to you very carefully. In three minutes, we felt that we were hearing beautiful political even slogans. But where was the direct program? So how can we vote for it? How can we vote first for an independent leader? Why did you likely find the opportunity to meet with one faction and eventually not with the others? So we can't talk about independence. Unfortunately, we can't talk about independence. And we can't support your candidacy either. Do we have cartel plots in Ukraine, Mrs. Olga? Let me give you an example. We already have this trend in Ukraine: the world oil prices are rising -- the price of fuel for Ukrainian ASF is rising; the price of world oil is falling -- the price of fuel for Ukrainian ASF is either rising or standing in one place. This is a direct example of cartel plots. Should the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine intervene in this situation? Absolutely. Will you do so? We'd love to hear that from you. Sadly, though, we did not hear. So, honourable national MPs, citizens of Ukraine, we call on everyone on the day after day, and especially our honourable presidency when we consider candidates for any position, first of all, we should get acquainted with the programs, with the team, personally with the leader, for whom we, as national deputies, should vote. That's the first one. And the second. Once again, I appeal to the people's deputies. When we end this shameful practice, when we release the previous leaders without reports. This depends primarily on us, the Ukrainian Parliament. Where is the previous Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine? He was here with us, did we hear his report? No, it's not. And I would like to remind you that Mrs. Olga, I understand, worked on the team, was a substitute. So, of course, this attitude towards Parliament is viewed as a team that remains to work on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u68	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, it is very symbolic today that on the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty, you and I are discussing such an important and relevant issue -- the issue of monopolies in our country. We understand very well with you that there is no Antimonopoly Committee in the country. There are oligarchs and monopolies in the countries, and there are those in the country who now control the full price of almost everything. We saw it with you during the pandemic when the price of masks, of disinfectors, of protective suits was the highest price in the world. Also, you and I are very well aware of the situation in tariff policy, when tariffs in our country today are also almost the highest in the world. Because when gas prices fell on all markets almost three times, in Ukraine they remained the same, and since September 1st, you're still planning to raise the price of electricity. So, dear fellows, we have two ways to go with you. Or this is the way to fight monopolies and oligarchs and to support today's real market and competition, because this is the way and only this path will lead to real investment in Ukraine. Because, in fact, fighting monopolies and protecting small businesses today, protecting today the Ukrainian investor, supporting today those people who are creating jobs in Ukraine, is a signal to the world that there is a real market in our country, there are real property rights, there are today real people's rights to invest in their country, and only then can there come major foreign investments. So if you take this chance and you can really break the backbone of that monopoly that you built in Ukraine in 30 years, that oligarhat that today holds Ukraine completely hostage to price policy and monopoly, then you and I can build a country where people will have a chance to get real services, real work and real competitive prices. And so I remind you that the goal of the Antimonopoly Committee State Authority is to ensure State protection of competition for entrepreneurial activities. We will abstain from this vote, but we want you to be on guard today for the real struggle against the monopolies and clans in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u70	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u71	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, reverend Olga Stanislavna! Today we're talking about getting you a chair of the Antimonopoly Committee, but I want you to know that this chair is electric. Because, as in the past, you used to work as an engineer in a design office, you're going to have to create a real Antimonopoly committee from scratch. Because we've historically done this, we've never had an Antimonopoly Committee, we've had a monopoly committee that has helped build big corporations, monopolies in Ukraine. And the first step you're going to take is fighting the monopolies of the oligarchs. Because we see what's going on in the fossil market right now, what's going on in the conspiracies of the knights, which were a vivid example during the Coronavirus pandemic, when drug networks agreed on each other and agreed prices, when the goods of the first need, medical masks in a country where 1,600 dollars of pension were worth 2,000 dollars. And we welcome your first steps in the role of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And so we started running with these reteilers. We also know that there has been a historic moment, and now, as far as the tobacco monopoly is concerned, the conduct and the arrest accounts are open. That's never happened before, because you really have the political will, you have the power, you're going to be the first woman in the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, but not every man is capable of the courage you have to fight these monopolies. That is why we definitely welcome you to this position. We will control your activities, of course. We're going to demand that by the end of the year, as we talked to you at the faction meeting, the tobacco monopoly, the mafia of these manufacturers, the cartel conspiracy, it has to be stopped, taxes have to be paid to the state budget, and it's up to you. That's why I'm asking you to support Olga Stanislavina Pistanisky's candidacy as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. I want us not to have a monopoly in the country, and let's make sure that we have an Antimonopoly committee and a real brave committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u72	The necessary speeches by the national MPs, can we vote? We can. The position of the committee, and then we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, with Mrs. Olga, we have not known the first day since last year, we have worked sufficiently closely with her in the process of legislative work, in the process of reforming the Antimonopoly Committee, approaches, ways and priorities of this very important institution. It has already been said in this room that Ukraine suffers and is burdened with monopolies in energy, in transport, particularly in airlines, in fertilizers, in tobacco, in rituals. And these are challenges that need to be addressed not only by Parliament's bills but also by an organ that is one of the country's most critical independent regulators. And as a result of our cooperation, I want to say that we have confidence and an understanding of what Olga Piscanska is capable of doing with the people's deputies, with the help of Parliament and with the help of our great team. Therefore, after hearing the committee at its meeting, for the first time, the report of Mrs. Piszczanski as the Acting Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, having had the opportunity to ask her all the necessary questions, reached a conclusion and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment of the Sands Olga Stanislavovna as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, take your seats. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Order (Registration No. 3856) on the appointment of the Sand Olga of Stanislavina as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:07]] For 255 Decision taken. Congratulations on your assignment. Let's see the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have six minutes until recess. The big question is, is it worth asking right now? I suggest we call it a break and start at 12:30. I have a request: the heads of the deputies' factions and groups to meet in my office for 15 minutes, to negotiate the agenda. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is the draft Decision on the appointment of Uruski Oleg Semenović as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine (Registration No. 3842). In accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of the Uruski Oleg Seminovič Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. It is proposed that this issue be dealt with in the same way as the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Is there no objection? The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u76	Honorable Predestination! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Ukrainians! As we have been told and promised, Ukraine needs a special view today, especially care for industrial industries, for the strategic development of the industrial sector in Ukraine, so of course we talked about creating a new ministry. And the new minister must be in the position of Vice Prime Minister or have not only an established responsibility, but also an appropriate mandate and representation status in order to take care of and develop both industry and the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine. The status of Vice-Prime Minister very clearly points to the priorities of our government. We understand that Ukrainian strategic industries need a new vision, a new approach. Ukraine must become a playground for the emergence of new technologies. And today, the Supreme Council is proposing Oleg Semenovich Urussky as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine. According to article 85, part 1, part 1, and article 114, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of Nardu", which according to article 83, part 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, to submit an application for the appointment of the Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister, Oleg Semenović of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u77	Thank you. The candidate for the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Urussky Oleg Seminovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to welcome everyone with today's celebration of our 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. I think it's quite symbolic that today the Supreme Council is looking at the issue. It's not that big a deal. Of course, it's a personnel question, but first of all, I think it's a question of repaying those debts that our industry received as a result of making certain management decisions that were made many years ago. When we took away our industrial enterprises, the whole industry, of course, they were sent out for free navigation. So if the private business, because it had the ability to normalize normal management, could still somehow keep to the swim, then everything about state-owned enterprises, which is primarily the defence-industrial complex, we only have state-owned property, machinery-building enterprises. Today's situation, I don't want to stop at this in detail, and the people's deputies have great information about the state of our industries today. I see the first challenge is to set up a system to get rid of the chaos that our industry is in. The government is planning, in cooperation with our partners, with the Federation of Employers, with the Ukrainian Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, with our companies, there is a lot of work, as well as working with the various associations and the Association of Light Industry, the Association of Defence Industry, the League of Defence Industries, there are a lot of work that we will need to do together, and at that time we have very little. I hope for fruitful cooperation with the MPs, because only together can we get out of the crisis situation that our industry has experienced. And the fact that we don't have a systematic approach is, for example, that if we analyze in the defence and industrial complex, how management takes place, that Law on the characteristics of the management of the defence and industrial complex really needs to be changed. And I would like to once again urge all the people's deputies that today is the crucial moment for us to return to our industry and, as stated in the President's Decree on the Objectives of Ukraine's Permanent Development by 2030, to take on and ensure the wide-ranging industrialization of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Can we vote? Please sign up for the factions of the MP factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] I only support you, Alexander Rafkatovich. We can give the faction that wants to speak and go to the vote. Is there no such objection? Who? Only the EU insists. EU, Voice. Everything? Lopushian. No, then all of them. "Trust," I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u80	May I have a word with you, Sümar?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u81	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, you know, I've read the dungeons of "The Servants of the People," where it was written that most of the most difficult times in the history of Ukraine have taken place. I was impressed by that phrase, to be honest. I want to tell you that the most difficult times for Ukrainian history happened in 2013 and 2014 when Russia annexed Ukrainian Crimea and went to war on Ukrainian Donbas. And I want to remind you of the state of the Ukrainian army, everyone forgot about it. Six years have passed, and no one mentions it. You've been there, haven't you? There are people here who were in the army in 2014? Did you drive an armored car there, tell me? Did you guys see what you were like in the rubber wallpaper? Great, we did it, and you did it, and great, what we did! And instruments of further vision drove. And you know very well that there was nothing, and we had to rebuild this army from scratch. And now that I hear that it turns out that the army, faith and language is a slogan, because we have nothing more to promise, friends, but we did it, the whole Ukrainian people did it together, this army came along. And today, Mr. Candidate, it's up to you whether this army will continue to develop and build. Because for the first time in six years, Ucrobronprom was virtually bankrupt. Today, 5,000 workers working in the defence complex have been released. This is the seventh year of the Russian-Ukrainian war. And this, colleagues, is our responsibility with you. Do you know how many businesses we have left working in Ucrobornprom? 15 out of 100. Do you even know what "Vilha" is? You know? It's not a tree. Well, so is the tree. And it's not even "ship pine." This is a missile complex called the U.S. Smerch, which is built on the entire production cycle. Do you know how much it was worth to do that? You know that everyone was against it -- the Russians, the Turks, nobody wants us to have a strong army. But we have to do it. Do you know what Neptune is? Not an ancient god. This is also a Ukrainian weapon that can destroy an enemy ship of 5,000 tons. So if we are to protect our country, we do not need to look into Putin’s eyes and seek peace there. We need to build our own army. And I hope the candidate for this position just heard me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u83	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, democracy is a procedure. We have no illusions about this government regarding its ability to improve the economy, to raise industry, particularly strategic enterprises. We see it and we feel it in statistics. And every citizen of Ukraine in their pockets feels that we're fighting the coronavirus, how we're effectively raising the economy. We have no illusions about the ability and desire of this government to communicate with Parliament. Except for the monotony. I will not be responsible for the majority, because we do not belong to it, but we feel unwilling to hear, to listen to the advice of all other factions and parliamentary groups in Parliament, in particular the parliamentary group "For the Future", which consists exclusively of deputies in the majority districts that have been elected in the majority districts. And we have a question for the government as a whole and a candidate for the post of Deputy Prime Minister from strategic issues, from the strategic industries of Ukraine. You do have respect for Parliament as the higher legislative body of Ukraine. We are with you in a parliamentary-presidential country where Parliament's position and then the government should be the key. Is it so difficult to identify meetings with representatives of the MP factions and groups, apart from a majority that does not have 226 votes on most of the questions voted in the Chamber today? And you want us to take shared responsibility for the state of the economy and industry, in particular. And I have a question that I read in the media. This is a question that my colleagues are asking me about the candidate. With all due respect to the candidate, I want to hear that since April 20, you are the director of the engineering company Progrestech-Ukraine. There's information in the media that Progrestech-Ukraine has Russian beneficiaries. In particular, it is pointed out that the official final beneficiary of Progrestech-Ukraine is the Russian military science academy Volodymyr Kulczycki, a well-deserved transport worker of the Russian Federation, founder and head of the Progrestech group, a well-known engineering and service structure in the field of aviation and airport technology with the main office in Moscow. Well, confirm or disprove, because because we don't communicate, because you don't want to hear the MP factions and groups, there are these questions when the Prime Minister says, and I don't read the Telegram Channel. Either you hear Parliament or we vote no. So in this case, our "For the Future" MP group is not going to support your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u86	Coltunovich? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'm pointing out to you that about a year ago, when they formed a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and when they appointed and represented the government program, I drew the attention of our Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers to the fact that there is not even a mention and a word about industrial production. In general, there was no such concept as "industry" in the government programme a year ago. What do we have? Minus 8.7 percent of the decline in industrial production. This is more than a significant indicator in relation to the past period. We have negative 11 percent already this year's car crash and production equipment, this product with high added value. If we're talking about exports of goods, that's less than 10 percent in the overall commodity structure of exports, we only have cars, equipment, other industrial products. 74.5 percent is raw material, agricultural raw materials and ores. So that's why it's so important for today's industrial policy, industry 4.0 and industry 4.0, and the modernization of our industry in general. Of course, the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister for such an important direction is, of course, good. But I want to bring you back to the 12th and 13th years where the problem of industrial production or the deindustrialization of the country in general arose. And it came from the wrong vector, the choice of an economic integration vector. We overturned the industrial potential of Ukraine when we broke up the free trade zone with the SND countries. A few days ago, we were talking about "Yushmash," about "Antons," about other businesses that are currently in a state of bankruptcy that are barely surviving. And this is high-tech manufacturing -- rocket building, aviation, shipbuilding, hardware. All of this was lost when we broke off economic ties with the SND countries. So if we're talking about restoring the industrial and high-tech potential of the country, we need to hear and see a clear concept from today's authorities about restoring or reintegrating Ukraine into a free trade zone with the SND countries, to deepen integration with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, it's a serious industrial impulse for the national economy. And actually, so you can understand how this is happening. If industrial enterprises do not have markets, this means that they do not need to produce this industrial product. And if you don't have to produce, you don't have to pay people's wages, you can just fire them. So again, our party requires a clear external economic course as one that is the fundamental foundation of industrial policy and industrialization of the country on a new technological basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u88	Vasili Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u89	Geo Leros, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u90	Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Urussky's candidature is a powerful example of how the President's Office "makes cancer" the entire Parliament. This Friday’s nomination was sent to the Supreme Council by Mr. Schmigal, but then it was called off. Because in this document he said there was a faction sitting, and there was no faction sitting. What does that mean? That Mr. Schmigal forged the documents. Then he realized it and called it off. So I urge you not to support this candidature, press the yellow or red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u92	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u93	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u94	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we will be voting with you in a few minutes for the appointment of Deputy Prime Minister for Strategic Industry. You know, I listened very carefully to his talk. And I loved the way he said the words "systemic approach." So I want to tell you that this person actually has a systemic approach. Systemic approach to the motherfucker. In 2014, when this person was the head of the board of directors of the Radar State Enterprise, which was part of the Ucrobanprom concert in downtown Kiev, he there a month after his appointment, immediately realized that 10 hectares in the center of Kiev near the palace of Ukraine had been put under construction by a private company. It's on condition that the state gets 1.5 percent of the apartments that are going to be built. In Kiev, less than 8-10 percent, no one will even talk to you. So I wonder why, as Head of the State Enterprise, the State has made such a generous gift to one of the builders. Now, by the way, this case is criminalized by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. So if you want to vote now for someone who's going to be involved in the strategic industry, think about whether you need to vote for a person who's a crime figure at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for a landfill of land in the center of the capital. After the dumpster took place, Mr. Urussky went to work for the Space Agency. And guess what happened there. It's also a dumpster. The Kyiv Radio Plant was completely bankrupt and stolen. And it was the Space Agency managed by Mr. Urussky that gave permission to alienate the property of this company. Then the company went bankrupt. So now that we're talking about strategic objects and strategic industries, this person is definitely going to help them "strategically" tear them apart. If you do not want to participate, press the yellow or red buttons. And I'm asking you very much, stop bringing here the corrupts and the dumpsters that you then assign to the government. Find people who are not involved in corruption who are not NAB figures. And please, come on, we're here to change this country, not scratch this country. Think about how you will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich of Trust, position of the committee, and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u97	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues need to be properly diagnosed in order to treat the disease. Not in one year of the rule of greatness and not in six years of war has industry been destroyed in our country. So, Mr. Candidate, from the Trust Group, from all over Donbas, from all over Ukraine, we're asking you to immediately audit all the privatized enterprises that worked and that were destroyed. Donbassa is flooded with mines. Who flooded them? It was in the city of Lysicánsk that destroyed the Lyssuda factory, which worked for 250 years. Mechglass, RTI is all the strategic industries of Defenceprom. Everyone knows that Donbas is a cradle of industry and an industrial base that actually fed Ukraine. But today, not only does war destroy Donbas, but also inside officials and politicians, and those who have taken all businesses, have taken advantage of scrap metal cutting, killing our economy. Your first trip should be to Lugansk, to Donetskina, to communicate with the majors, to the MPs. I'll personally drive you to those businesses where you can make a horror movie. People today cry with tears like that, and they can't do anything because the power structures don't do anything. When an audit is made, it will be concluded that our country has been destroyed in the vandal way, so there will be a conclusion as to who will be responsible for today’s decline in our country. We are fourth in the world for wealth, and so are poor people who are starving today and who are going to be slaves in foreign lands. We need to return industrial policy, an industry that will fill the Ukrainian state budget, which Ukraine will be holding today both the army and the normally fed people, in the normal state of school, kindergartens. And we can also do the best we can to build Ukraine, not to destroy it. Traitors inside Ukraine, not just from the outside, and have to show their faces. Show the faces of those who run state-run enterprises today, like the Star, like today's oil-processing companies. Why are the bad guys who are even in this parliament benefiting from this today? Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. The final speech is the committee? Oh, no? We can vote, right? Is everyone in position? The committee's word is two minutes, and we're going to vote. Invite while the national deputies are in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u99	My colleagues, congratulations! Indeed, we had the opportunity to consider, at the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Oleg Semenovich Urussky's candidacy. Questions were raised, questions were asked, positions were identified, and decisions were made during the discussion: Recommending to the Supreme Council the way to vote on the issue. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please take your seats. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 3842) on the appointment of Uruski Oleg Semenović as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Hello! Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u101	As a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I, Oleg Semenovich, have solemnly sworn allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u102	Congratulations! Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the following issues of the agenda, but there are proposals for factions until we move on to the Electoral Code, 3760 and 3807 to put the agenda into order, shorten the lines, and vote 3640 (this is a mortgage). Is there no objection? Just so we can get in. You don't? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now I'm putting two to the vote, and then to the vote. Dear colleagues. There's no committee decision yet? I can't hear you. In the committee's office? I'll give my word to the committee head. Taking into account the committee's proposals. Then the Electoral Codex. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law on State Support for Investment Projects with significant investment. We need 226 votes. This is the registration number of the 3760 bill. Please support and vote. [[13:10:17]] For 236 Decision taken. It is proposed to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the extraordinary plenary meeting on 16 July 2020 before this bill. Please support and vote. [[13:10:50]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is also inclusion and shortening. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 on the proper financial provision for the restoration of the Institute of Social Work Professionals to identify and accompany families (persons) who are in difficult living conditions (registration No. 3807). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[13:11:40]] For 272 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to accept the bill as urgent and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills (registration number 3807). Please support and vote. [[13:12:13]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is bill 3640 with committee proposals. First. We have to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans (3640). Please support and vote. About getting into the daytime. [[13:13:02]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:13:27]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I put the vote on the ground and in general. I'll bet first. What do you mean? Then we won't vote it if we don't. What do you mean? Why would you want to get into this bill? It's in the committee's office. The Gethmans? I give the word to Getmantsev, head of the committee. Dear colleagues, if we don't vote, it's a filk's letter, I'll tell you again. I'm sorry, but we're either voting or we shouldn't have talked about this at all. Vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill yesterday on the committee, it refers to the issues of currency investors called. These are the people who took the money in the currency and counted on the stability of a bracelet that the state didn't provide. Today we have a very difficult situation where the moratorium on pleasure, on debt collection, ends in October, and in fact people find themselves on the streets. The state couldn't afford it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u104	Danilo Alexandrovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. This is not a political talk. The committee's decision, please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u105	I'll read out the committee's decision. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of property of citizens granted as collateral in foreign currency (No.3640), introduced by the People's Deputy Dubinsky, to be adopted on the basis of and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposal: paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section 1 of the bill should be amended as follows: "This law takes effect from the day it was published and becomes invalid from January 1, 2022." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u106	On the basis and then on the whole, respected colleagues. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign currency loans (registration number 3640). Please support and vote. [[13:16:22]] For 349 Decision taken. Wait. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency (registration number 3640). Please support and vote. [[13:17:03]] For 349 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the important issue of today's agenda, which is the amendment to the Electoral Code. I'll be right there. Wait, Alina Leonidova. I'm going to talk about the arrangements that were reached at the meeting between us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Nestor Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, there will be no further questions. We agreed with the leaders of the MP factions and groups that we would consider the following procedure, because there are almost 4,000 rights. It's impossible for him to go through the little time we have left in this session. Three minutes will have each faction and the MP group to perform. This is the first time. Next. Up to 15 axles can be placed on the count or confirmation, up to 15 axles, from each faction and from the MP group. Next. There are three, there are three blocks left that we're going to vote separately at the end. It's a so-called quota principle. The vote will be set at 5, 25 and 50 percent, changes in the voter list. They will vote as follows. First we vote 5, if she's got 226, two other proposals don't apply. Then we vote 25. If she picks up, she doesn't take the next one. Then we vote 50. If. One, if you get 25, we don't vote anymore. 226 won, we don't vote. Next. As for the beginning, when the election starts by a party system, by a proportional system. Dear colleagues, then don't ask questions. Vadim Vladislavovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I am. You don't care, we can bet as much as we want. 10,000, 5,000, 10,000, 15,000 and 35,000. The same thing will be voted from lower to higher until we get 226. If there's one vote, we still don't vote. And the ballot paper is the third question of how to vote separately. Did I say the right thing, fellow leaders of the MP factions and groups? Is that right? The bet will be voted on, the question of the pledges will be put by honorary colleagues from the EU, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Is that right? No notes? Let's get to work. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups for the performance. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u108	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u109	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Fellow Members of Parliament, and above all, Honourable Ukrainians! There were 101 days left before the election. 101 days. And you know, it's very brilliant to change any rules before the game itself, before the election itself. The day before humans are completely confused in this chaos, they do not understand either how to choose or how to choose. I want to talk to the voters. Dear Ukrainians, please tell me, do you know how you will vote in three months? I'm not asking who. Keep an eye on political parties, monitor candidates, and identify yourself. But how? Will you vote and act only for the parties? Whether you're going to influence who's going to be in the front section or whether they're going to be at the end of the list. Do you understand that? The answer is obvious -- no, because we're still looking at changes in these rules. I want to turn to the candidates, the people who have had confidence in themselves for years, trust in their actions, actions. Please tell me, do you know how you choose? Do you know who your electorate is? What are the boundaries of your district? Where Can I Agitate? Where do you convince people that you're the best candidate? You obviously don't know, 101 days before the election. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a few basic positions. First. 101 days before the election, they want to change the electoral system, and that is completely contrary to common sense, and that is contrary to international standards. Because you can't limit the self-regulatory of the people who were preparing for these elections, who got confidence from people, and now they're just being artificially driven to party offices. You can't do that. Do you also know how many times you increased the election bond? 40 times. Why? In order to be able to influence money bags, to be able to compete, you will have to pay 40 times as much as you did in previous elections, and this is also absolute nonsense, and that needs to be changed today. And most of all. Will people influence, or will political party bosses influence? Who will be the first number on the list, the tenth and the fiftieth, will be decided here too today. And finally, I want to point out that yesterday, under the walls of Parliament, there were people here, there were representatives of the Association of Cities, there were other organizations, they were definitely against the change from 90,000 to 10 electoral systems, and there were downturns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u111	Dear Ukrainians, in the most difficult years, our political team held fair and transparent elections in 2014, 2015, 2019, which the Ukrainians themselves and the world recognized as democratic. Is the "green" team ready for democratic elections today, or is it preparing large-scale forgeries? Obviously, when electoral legislation changes a hundred days before the election, which is a gross violation of the rules and recommendations of the OSCE, it says that unequal conditions for all players are being created at the start. Why did they pull? First of all, because Zelenski and his team have been misleading the country all year long, elections can be held throughout Ukraine, including in occupied Donbassa. Actually, Mr. Zelensky, there's no "other side" on Donbas, there's the Russian Federation with its weapons. And it's only right that our political team canceled this adventure, there was an election under the guns and guns of the Russian, and the election to the siege in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas would take place only after the occupation by the Russian mercenaries, not the other side. The war in Zelensky's head was over, and it was important for him to have a twig. It's very important, my friends, that the Electoral Code, which we adopted a year ago, means really open lists. Today, the green team is fighting a real war against decentralization, trying to cancel certain areas without the will of the community. A particularly shameful attitude towards the capital city of Kiev, where the intellectual capital of Ukraine similarly shows its "fu" to this team, which can only do something. Your ass shows up in the video when you go to the polls. And that's why we're definitely against this exotic division of Kiev into areas along some railway track, at the Velour restaurant. We'll be firm against that. You have to count and respect the thought of the sneezes. Friends, it's very important that there be a high standing, because it's the same responsibility of the political parties that you're taking to the elections, not the creation of the fair teams and the crew of freaks that you're going to lead to the election. Very important intra-party competition, so 5 percent of what you're trying to leave now, not 25, is the same majority when Greece works in the regions. And we are absolutely against it, my friends. Well, what's really important is that you run an unforgivable election. To this end, we insist that all the political parties represented in Parliament today have equal representation in the territorial election committees of our members of the TSK and the electoral commissions. And we, our political team "European Solidarity" won't let you fake it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u113	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I'd like to welcome all the Ukrainians with the anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. Indeed, it is an important day today, and it is good that today questions are raised that largely unite the session room rather than divide. I would like to thank Parliament for listening to Julia Timoshenko's proposals and for voting on Bill 3640, which protected the Ukrainian people who took credit and evicted them from their last home. It's a very important bill, it's a good thing we accepted it. We now have an equally important bill on the Electoral Code. I would like to thank the committee for the hard work that has been done with the drafting of the amendments, he took into account the maximum amendments that have become a difficult consensus between all the political forces. And we can really adopt a bill today that will unite the hall and allow it to hold the local elections on October 25, 2020. In fact, we have made a revolutionary decision in the past Parliament that elections will follow a proportional system with open lists. So let's make these lists really open. Let's make sure there's competition inside the parties today. Let those for whom more votes and voters put it on the ballot and be elected representatives. Not the party offices today have to determine who will become the deputy, and the electorate has to determine that. That's what we all promised people, and that's what we can do here today by voting for amendments to the Electoral Code. Of course, this bill is also important because we correct many of the legal inaccuracies in the text. And we, as the Fatherland faction, will vote in favour of the Electoral Code, we will support amendments that correct inaccuracies that will allow declarations not to be made by candidates, but by directly elected deputies. Let's not turn the electoral process into declarations. Let people be chosen, then elected deputies will submit to the NAZC Declaration. We also believe that we need to accept an amendment that should remove the problem of forensic evidence. Let's not load the electoral process with forensic evidence, this will be able to make appropriate territorial election committees by asking questions. In general, "Paternality" today will certainly support all the smart amendments that apply to party discipline, and which relate to today's party being able to control the electoral process throughout the country, and which relate to having open lists, starting with 10,000. I think that, in fact, there must be open lists, and only people have to determine who will be their representative in the local authorities. We vote this bill fast, we run local elections, we let people choose, and the main thing is that the election process is fair, democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been following the genesis of electoral legislation for the past 20 years, so it's very strange to hear from the national deputies of previous calls, especially the suggestion that this Supreme Council has taken a long time with changes in electoral legislation. I would like to remind you that before the preparation of the local, final, elections in 2015, the then Law on Local Elections was adopted in mid - July 2015. Is that good, or is that bad? Well, it's real. Of course, this is not very good. Yes, Law 3485 - it greatly improves this regulation of preparation and election. At the same time, I think, and I'd like to get the room's attention, and at some points we need to pay attention. I have great respect for all the leaders of the parliamentary factions and the parliamentary groups, and for the agreements they have reached, but I have passed on to the Presidency my proposals for the amendments that I will be sure to make. They apply to four main blocks. And this is in the interests of everyone without the exclusion of political forces. First. Organization of the work of the election committees. Well, we need to go back to the way we've always been, and avoid this shameful practice when the Central Election Commission is holding closed meetings and deciding on the issues at closed meetings. What is always criticized by observation missions is now wanted in the law. All decisions of the electoral commissions, such as the Central Electoral Commission, should be properly regulated, not only by the rulings but also by protocol. The second important point is the handover of ballots. Traditionally, district commissions received ballots at a high - level, district, or territorial commission. Full decentralization is now proposed so that high - level representatives can travel through the district commissions and pass on. So the control of the circulation of ballots is much lower, there's a high risk of abuse. We need to return the information on the protocols that are now proposed to be ruled out without justification, including voting outside the voting box or, as we call it, voting at home. And the last. Grounds for refusal of registration. Members of the previous statements may recall that in the 12th year, there was absolutely no acceptable practice of CLTC when candidates were refused registration on the grounds that some documents did not contain certain information, and therefore the CLTC did not consider the document to be a document. So in the 12th year, we didn't fight through the courts, only in 2014-2015 did the courts take that position. Now they want to put it right in the law. And I urge this room to avoid it. Well, I completely agree with what's going on here, like the evidence of the murder and the missing person's statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Babak Mikoli Viktorovich, the "Trust" MP. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u117	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, distinguished voters! There are no ideal laws. There is no perfect electoral legislation. And that's a fact. And it's Bill 3485, which today we're going to vote on local elections, that also has its pluses, that has its minuses. But we have to take into account that we have a local election on October 25, 2020, that we voted yesterday on the right decision, so society needs to know what the rules are for the election race. And we certainly need to finalize electoral legislation and make appropriate important details about what we should do today. Which I would like to point out from the positive what is in this edition of the Electoral Codex. We support the committee's decision to reduce the electoral quota from 25 percent to 5 percent in the second reading. A reduction in the electoral quota allows people to look at new faces and new political projects, but it's people, not party brands. Because, in fact, in the first reading, we made classic closed lists, we completely closed the list, and people need to know who's coming from one political power or another. And that's why reducing the quota to 5 percent is just a social demand for new faces, for new party projects. And that's exactly what's going to trigger and allow party competition inside the list. There should be no caste chosen, and that's the right thing to do. And that's why we support and support this decision of the committee. Since then, there has been a positive rule regarding the reduction of the election bond. This will again enable new people, new political projects to get into local self-government, and they have a huge demand for society, and people will look for these new faces. Thirty percent of the people now want to see new faces and new political projects in local self-government. Under this Electoral Code, the right to vote is given to internally displaced persons, with problems. One and a half million internally displaced persons, plus over a million non-registered voters. Some 3 million internal migrants will be able to vote in the autumn of 2020. The need for people with limited opportunities is also considered. To be honest, we long ago had to vote on these changes and those changes to electoral legislation, but this is what happened. So the trust MP group will vote in favour of this election code and call on colleagues to support this editorial as well. People need to know what rules, what criteria they're going to choose their deputies in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u118	Please, Puzanov Alexander Hennadiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u119	The honourable chairman, the honourable presidency, the honourable fellow national MPs, first of all, I would like to thank the head of the leadership and the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and the organization of government for the enormous and petty work they have done in preparing this bill for the second reading. More than 4,000 amendments have been considered, including amendments from all MP factions and groups. In particular, more than 400 rights have been considered by the Opposition Platform for Life. Of these, 130 were taken into account, for which individual thanks were given to the governing body and to the members of the committee. At the same time, despite the fact that the bill had really become better, he took into account a large number of proposals and withdrew those questions that were before the bill that was tabled in the first reading, removed those problems that were with the authority of the Central Electoral Commission, with the formation of territorial and district election committees, with the replacement of the leadership of election committees. In spite of all this, there are still questions that today, in particular, will be asked by deputies for consideration or confirmation. These are certainly the main questions that the speaker was talking about today. Questions 5 or 25 percent of the electoral quota to allow candidates to change their seats on the electoral list. This is definitely the form of a ballot. It's a question of how many inhabitants, from which number of voters will the electoral system change from major to proportional. As for these three positions, I want to express the position of our faction. We will certainly vote for the preservation and form of the ballot that was proposed for the first reading. I want to remind you that the form supported by the committee has already been proposed to the Supreme Council when you and I were discussing the Electoral Code, which was returned by President Zelensky with our comments. Then we found understanding with all the MP factions, and we found that form of electoral ballot that was changed accordingly. This electoral bulletin remains unchanged for the election of Ukrainian national deputies because the amendments voted by the committee did not change this form. But with regard to local elections, there is an attempt to change and propose such a travesty, so-called travesty form, to enter the candidate number supported by the voter. It is wrong, fellow believers, to have a unified ballot, unified both for the Supreme Council and for local elections, for local councils. About 5 or 25 percent. Dear colleagues, today it has been said, it is a possibility of political corruption. For the city of Kiev, it is 300 votes. I'm talking about 5 percent. If we vote 5 percent, the proportion of the seats will be determined by 300 votes. It's going to be Greek, it's going to be a grid, it's going to be a voter bribe. Dear colleagues, we will support this codex, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u120	The hammer of Igor Fedorovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future first joins those greetings that are now echoing from the rostrum on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. You know, remembering (who remembers who doesn't, obviously, we've all been young and young) these years, starting in the 1990s, we've been building a model of a responsible state. But the model of a responsible state is evidently based on how in a civilized world? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And all this time, we can't survive party responsibility by constantly shivering from one election system to another. With regard to this Electoral Codex. We have been amending the Electoral Code for about two years and, obviously, leading to the last day, to the last hours of this plenary session conceptually enough conceptual changes in this Electoral Code. I want to say that our "For the Future" MP group will definitely support it, but it will support it in the open list. Because we understand that those underwater stones about percentages, about thousands of votes, about the form of the ballot that we're talking about right now from the rostrum, they have a hidden model of election lists that some parties want to go to the electorate conveniently. That's why we're primarily advocating that there be a model of party responsibility, and it was hidden in open lists that voters could see, 5 percent being electoral quotas, not 25 or more. This is an internal party competition that was already in 2015, which we're just deepening and expanding. Friends, I have a request for all MP factions and groups, support 5 percent and open up, don't hide behind party lists, open these lists for your candidates and for all voters. A form of a ballot. The form of the ballot should be available to the electorate, not the form that makes it difficult for him to choose. So our parliamentary group will support the model proposed by the committee at its last meeting, the speculative principle of creating a ballot, where people could, without being confused, vote in favour of the party, choose the candidate they support from this political party. Not to end as in Poland, when only 15 percent of people vote for a candidate, and actually this model fails. We are responsible to the community, but not to the local princes. And our party must be accountable to the electorate, not the party oligarchs. We vote in favour of the open Electoral Code. And ask for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u122	All those who wish to speak? All of them. Now we're going to the factions. Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, list, please, who's speaking from the faction? Factions, alterations. Give it to me, please. Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich. None. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u123	Dmitri Alexanderovich, can I have three minutes, I have two tickets?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u124	No, three minutes is two shifts, no one's giving it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u125	I've only got 20 rights, but please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u126	No, let's give it two minutes, because the colleagues have to come forward. 2 minutes is 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u127	Thank you. According to the proposed draft, paragraph 2 of part two of article 203, part one of article 204 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, the right to apply to the election committee shall be conferred on the local political party organisation, which has concluded an agreement on political cooperation in the relevant local election of the parliamentary group, which has been announced at the Supreme Council session, no later than 1 January of the year in which the election takes place. Similar footnotes are found in the new article 204. My license number 1739 and 1826. Please place it on the count. The granting of the right to apply to election committees of local organisations, parties that have concluded an agreement on political cooperation in the respective local elections with a parliamentary group, is not in line with the legal nature of the parliamentary groups, as they are internal parliamentary formations and are created solely for the provision of equal rights to members of parliaments elected by a proportional system. They have an unstable composition and non-partisan character, and therefore they are granted certain rights outside Parliament, and more in the electoral process is unacceptable given that there is a violation of article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in addition, article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the project’s mechanism for creating a quasi-Subject in local elections, such as a local party organization that has concluded an agreement on political cooperation in appropriate local elections with a parliamentary group, is neither consistent with the Constitution nor with the logic of the project. Please place my changes on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u128	Number line, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u129	1739 and 1826.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u130	1739, 1826. They're not considered by the committee. I'm betting on the 1739 vote, it's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:20]] For-125 The decision is not taken. 1826, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:43]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich. Sergey Vitaliyovich, you've got a couple of blocks, right? Two minutes. Turn on Calchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u131	2 minutes for everything or 2 minutes each?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u132	Let's do 4 over everything, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u133	Okay, Dmitri Alexanderovich, okay. I'll even be faster. The first block of several, with seven proposals, is the organization of the work of commissions. Again, it is now proposed that one form of commission work will be closed to meetings where neither candidates nor candidates on the Central Election Commission will be present, neither authorized representatives nor trusted persons. So that's what's being criticized over and over again by the observation missions of national elections. It's a practice. Now they want to include it in the law. I think that this shameful practice should not be included in the law; it should be avoided. Next, it should be anticipated that all decisions of the electoral commission, including the Central Election Commission, not only decisions but also protocol decisions should be made as soon as possible, accessible to the public, as this would allow them to be challenged in the event of disagreement. Next. What is this novelty that the election commission can determine for itself when its decision takes effect? There is no such thing in any electoral law so far. And it is suggested that the election commission itself will determine when its decision will take effect. This should be avoided, too. We need to avoid situations where election committees can cancel their decisions. What is the risk, especially in local elections? In the local elections, each territorial commission is a mini-CEVK, and it decides to register candidates. The risk is that in the last days before the election, the election boards will be on the premeditated basis of making decisions and not canceling the registration, but canceling their previous decisions regarding the registration of candidates when they are no longer available. either the decision to cancel the creation of commissions or to make changes. So it poses enormous threats to both candidates and local political parties. It's completely non-political of my proposals, I think they're in everyone's best interests without excluding the political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u134	And, dear fellows. Wait, I've got the amendment numbers. We agreed that Calchenka would be voted in. I'll just call and vote. Yeah? 146. Please vote. [[13:50:51]] For 337 Edit included. Five-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-s. Please vote. [[13:51:10]] For 340. Edit included. 538 axle. Please vote. [[13:51:28]] For 347 Edit included. 540 correct. Please vote. [[13:51:44]] For 348 Edit included. Sergey Vitaliovich, your papers were all off-limits, weren't they? Not 541. Turn on Calchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u135	There's 541th, 622th and 624th before that, before the organization of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u136	And all the other revisions, they were all off-limits?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u137	Yeah, everybody's off the hook.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u138	Can we walk on it then, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u139	We have to go for a walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u140	Okay. 541 axles. Please vote. [[13:52:27]] For 350. Edit included. 622 law. Please vote. [[13:52:45]] For 353 Edit included. 624. Please vote. [[13:53:02]] For 354 Edit included. 937. Wait. One minute, Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u141	But very quickly, even for 30 seconds. It's about what's going to happen now. Decentralizedly, it is proposed that the local or district representatives travel through the district commissions, pass the ballots. This was never the case, the ballot papers were always broadcast either in the district or in the district election committees. And so you can control their circulation. And what's being suggested right now is that there are huge risks of what's not known what's going to happen to those ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u142	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, well, Sergey Vitaliovich has great experience, and somewhere is the fate of the truth in his words. But in fact, what we offer does not rule out normal order. It's just that we're at the same time, we're offering an alternative to passing ballots. Because we're changing logistics, we're going to have larger areas, there's going to be a lot more district election boards in the areas, and as these ballots come in, there's going to be a problem. Therefore, if the decision is taken, the commission may authorize a separate representative to transmit the ballots. So one proposal does not rule out another.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u144	Thank you, Alina Leonidina. Let's go to the vote. 937. Please vote. [[13:54:44]] For 341 Decision taken. Edit included. 1233. Please vote. [[13:55:01]] For 337 Edit included. 1375. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u145	That's all there is to it. Stop voting. Stop the vote, please. Again. 3175. 3175 is your turn? I'm sorry. 3175. Edit Calchenka, 3175. Please vote. [[13:55:45.]] For 341 Decision taken. 3229. Please vote. [[13:56:05]] For 347 3233. Please vote. [[13:56:24]] For 342 Edit included. Next block. The minute is Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u146	That's enough for one minute. This is all about having to go back to the protocols and district committees all the information that was there. First of all, how many electors are involved for a vote outside the voting room, that is, at home, how many voters have voted in real terms. For some reason, this bill proposes to delete it. We know that traditional house voting is a risk of abuse, of counterfeiting. So there's a lot of proposals here, up to 16, they apply to the same thing, the return of information in the records of the district commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u147	Thank you. 337. The position of the committee is mandatory? Well, let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u148	Just to understand the logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u149	Yeah, yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u150	Colleagues, just so you understand the logic proposed. Our protocol is so difficult because we are changing the electoral system. The only reason we've suggested that we rule out the information is because it seems to be too much, it doesn't affect how the results are set. And these lines that we basically removed, they don't fight on any of the control formulas. So the proposal was to make it easier for people to work on boards and to simplify the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u151	Thank you, Alina Leonidina. Let's go to the vote for Calchenka's revisions. 3377. Please vote. [[13:58:12]] For 292 Edit included. 3378. Please vote. [[13:58:30.]] For 317 Decision taken. Edit included. 3379. Please vote. [[13:58:48]] For 325 Edit included. 3381. Please vote. [[13:59:08]] For 327 Edit included. 3382. Please vote. [[13:59:24]] For 319 Edit included. 3383. Please vote. [[13:59:41]] For 319 Edit included. 3387. Please vote. [[13:59:59]] For 316 Edit included. 3388. Please vote. [[14:00:16]] For 319 Edit included. 3389. Please vote. [[14:00:33]] For the 320. Edit included. 3391. Please vote. [[14:00:49]] For 319 Edit included. 3392. Please vote. [[14:01:06]] For 322 Edit included. 3393. Please vote. [[14:01:23]] For the 320. Edit included. 3474. Please vote. [[14:01:40]] For 316 Edit included. 3475. Please vote. [[14:01:57]] For the 320. 3,475 is included. 320 – readout. 3476. Please vote. 3476. [[14:02:24]] For 324 Edit included. 3477. Please vote. [[14:02:43]] For 315 Edit included. Sergey Vitaliovich, one more minute? The last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u152	The last one. One minute is enough. These proposals, they relate to the implementation of an active and passive electoral right, such as the grounds for refusal of registration. Again, it is now proposed in the law to provide that if the electoral commission considers that there is no information in the documents, the whole document is unreported. I remind the MPs who were running in the 12th year, which was the practice of the Central Electoral Commission, and they couldn't fight it through the courts, the courts took that position. In the 14th year and in the 15th year, the position of the courts changed. But now they want to see it right in the law. I mean, it won't be in the autobiography, according to the commission, any information. The commission will consider that the autobiography is not provided and can be legally denied registration. And it also applies to absolutely unconstitutional requirements for the provision of information on the absence of justice and statements of absence of elements. So again, I thank you for your support and ask you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u153	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues in connection with the second part of Sergio Vitaliovich’s presentation on the manual. The committee can absolutely meet if there's agreement in the room, so that you don't give any information about alimony or trial, you decide. When it comes to autobiography and information, it's marked. And you asked yourself a question, and if the candidate didn't give you information, for example, about his partyism, which is printed in the newsletter? That's the basic requirement for a ballot. None. So this problem is solved by what we've taken into account, and that's not a clear reason. We suggest: The CEC must inform the candidate that the information is incomplete, the candidate completes it, and only if he has not done so will the refusal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u155	I'm betting on a vote of 485 non-committee amendments to Calchenka. Please vote. 459th. [[14:05:15]] For 279 Edit included. 462. Please vote. [[14:05:31]] For 298 Edit included. 484th. Please vote. [[14:05:48]] For 305 Edit included. 897. Please vote. [[14:06:07]] For 304 Edit included. Ninety-three. Please vote. [[14:06:25]] For 301 Edit included. 1167. Please vote. [[2:06:42]] For 296 Edit included. 1180. Please vote. [[2:07:01]] For 294 Edit included. 1182. Please vote. [[14:07:19]] For 295 Edit included. 2323. Please vote. [[14:07:39]] For 297 Edit included. 2325. Please vote. [[14:07:58]] For 296 Edit included. 2387. Please vote. [[14:08:22]] For 289 Edit included. 2387 was just there? 2390. Please vote. [[14:08:44]] For 301 Edit included. 2767. Please vote. [[14:09:02]] For 298 Edit included. And the last, at the request of Alina Leonidina, 2774. Please vote. [[14:09:27]] For 302 Edit included. Thank you. Sergey Vitaliovich finished his work. Dear colleagues, perhaps the "Serial of the People" faction will no longer insist, shall we? We just have a lot of time left. They won't deny it? We can move on. OPCW, how many rights? 5. Let's do it. Well, with all due respect, Alexander Hennadiovich, come on. Give me three minutes and 10 votes, okay? Two minutes? Puzanov, turn it on. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have three tickets, my faction colleagues will have seven more. My rights are 1309 and 3672 and 660. 1309 and 3672 refer to the addition of the first number in the regional electoral list for parliamentary elections and the first issue in the territorial electoral list. A 50% quota is also foreseen to change the queue. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u157	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u158	According to the committee, the committee's editorial is much better. So in order to avoid balancing the bill, the proposal to reject the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard the position of colleagues, the position of the committee. It's on. The committee's position is to reject. Vote 1309 of the Puzanova People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u160	1309. Please vote. [[14:11:39]] Z-87 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is 3652. 3672. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:07]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Puzanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u161	660 amendment, it refers to what I propose to exclude candidates in the election of local self-governance candidates to campaign for themselves during working hours. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u162	Committee position, 660.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u163	The committee rejected the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please vote, amendment 660. [[14:12:49]] For-146
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u165	The decision is not taken. Alexander Hennadiovich, all right? Natalia Igorovna Alien? One minute, yes, one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm the application of 4059 and 4060, the proposals aimed at violating the principle of equal electoral law guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. And these principles should be fundamental, but similar actions, they only make it impossible for our territorial community rights, and this will only continue to have a negative impact on the functioning of local self-government. Crowds today demand even representation in power, not a chessboard for laying figures under specific parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u167	Are you putting them on confirmation right now? Dear colleagues, let us then note: Confirmation or consideration. It's for confirmation, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] 4059, 4060. Colleagues ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] They're considered by the committee. They're counted by the committee, I repeat. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Ready? I'm betting on a vote of 4059 for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:14:42]] For 269 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 4060. I'm betting on the vote, too. Please support and vote. [[14:15:07]] For 273 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Natalia Yuriovna, one minute, right? Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to give me two minutes, and then I'm asking you to put two tickets on the table: 4047 and 4051. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the entire room again. Today, there are about two and a half million voters in Lugansk and Donetsk -- people who voted for you, voted for this Ukrainian Parliament, people who voted in the presidential elections and elected the President of Ukraine. And in their vast majority, they were supporting Vladimir Zelensky's second tour. And today these people also want to be able to vote in favour of their district council so that they can choose district leaders, select a deputy corps, and resolve their life issues in the same way as all the other citizens of our country. For example, from Donecina. Today, there will be about one and a half thousand members of the local council. There will be elections in 46 united local communities. There, according to a new proposal for the distribution of areas, deputies and circuit heads will be elected in five areas in the controlled area. At the same time, however, you ban your decision to choose a district council there, thus ruining the entire system of local self - government today. And how do people view all of this? So where the money is on the district council, there today you're going to manage it yourself without choosing representatives from the communities. I mean, how does this violate the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the rights of people? And that's why we think it's very important today to assign first-stage elections to controlled areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions in the district council. And we still require this Parliament to start implementing the Minsk Accords and do everything we can to bring Donbas back to Ukraine today and Ukraine back to Donbas. And today's election in the area of the Donetsk and Lugansk Districts, where today our Ukraine is completely ruled and enforced by Ukrainian laws, is the first step towards peace in our country. Please place these two adjustments on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u169	Number line?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u170	4047 and 4051.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u171	Is that counting? 4047.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u172	Counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u173	4047 and 4051?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u175	Is that counting? Counting. I'll bet you 4047. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:39]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 4051. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:56]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Everything? Aunt Michael, I love you. Last one, huh? No, wait, how many rights? Burmich? How many bars? A minute? Wait a minute. One minute, three revisions. Come on. Turn on the Burmich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u176	I asked for two minutes, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u177	Could you pass the time, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u178	My dear colleagues, I and our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" have always consistently stood up and acted, and we will stand for sovereignty, Ukraine's independence, primarily because the source of power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people. We've always stood up and stood up against the external, any external government, especially the government and the influence on power. My actions are three, they're combined. This is number 211, number 317 and 345. These three amendments, they are united, actually apply to the same thing. They are. The bill proposes to allow foreign funds to be involved in the elections, in the financing of the Central Electoral Commission, in the process itself, in the Secretariat of the Patronate Service, in foreign countries, in foundations, in various organizations of commercial, foreign organizations with unknown origins of capital. We have taken a firm stand against it, because it is the foreign influence on elections as well as on corruption schemes. Those who finance, you know who pays, who orders music. You can't let that happen. The elections in Ukraine are the festivals of the Holy Ukrainian people. We're voting in favour of my rights, 211, 317 and 345. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u179	I'm betting on a 211 vote, aren't I? They don't count? 211th, 317th and 345th. 317. 211 at first. I'll bet you a vote on 211. She's been rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:22:21]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 317 on the count, too? I'm betting on the vote number 317. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:44]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 345 axles. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:01]] For-47 .15 your rights. 14? You're doing a good job. For 47, the bill is off-limits. Aunt Mikhailna Placzkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u180	Thank you, colleagues. I want to make the amendments that have already been adopted by the committee, namely the amendment of 1,684 People's Deputies of Gurin regarding the possibility of derogation from the general rules for the formation of the districts of Kiev. I think the rules should be the same. And I want to make the second amendment for confirmation 3881. It refers to the fact that the two-round elections in the cities of more than 75 voters contain more than 75 voters. And we think the rules have to be the same, 90 grand has to be. So there's two confirmation papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u181	You have one right to stay, not two. No, it's either that or that. 1681. I'm voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where did she insult you? No, she didn't. [[B in m in s a l in]] What did they do to offend you? Colleagues, let's go without the circus. 1681. 1684 I'm voting. It's not considered by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Partially counted. Are we leaving the part-counted? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u182	The committee counted it in part. But even on the committee on this issue, we had a lot of battles, because there are actually cities with over 2 million voters. We realize that it's just Kiev, setting their own rules. So let the hall be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u183	It's partially accounted for. You can't. So everyone will answer his or her report, your esteemed colleagues? I'm betting on the vote, partly counted. I'm betting on the vote on that editorial that's included in the committee table. Please support and vote. Partially counted. [[14:26:04]] For 213 Edit rejected. No, 15 rights. No, 15 rights. It's a binoculars. How many rights do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u184	They're 417, but they're the same. That's part eight of Chapter I, there's 15,000 by 35,000 of the majors' plank, which goes down when they go to the proportional party system. It starts there from 417 to 2875. Let's just put her to the vote once. This is about the majority board, our committee counted just 10,000 partisans.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u185	Wait, Larissa Mikolayevna. So I went to the beginning to get you all to listen, and every national MP did anything, but not what you agreed to. We're putting the party in the end. No, at the end of the day, we put them in, we put them in the end. We agreed. Now you're going to do it so that we don't have a code. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u186	I've got two changes. The first one is 342. This amendment relates to the financing of the Central Electoral Commission. The Commission is a collegiate state body funded by the State budget of Ukraine. We cannot allow the public authority to receive additional funding from the European Union's assistance programmes, foreign governments, international organisations, donor institutions. Once again, it's a public body, not a public organization. Please support number 342. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u187	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u188	Colleagues, committee dismissed. And I stress to you that our legislation that we are adopting today should correspond to today. This practice has long existed, with the technical assistance of Western partners, it can be used to purchase technology that is essential for the operation of, for example, registers. Therefore, the request is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u189	I'll bet you a vote. 342 axles. She doesn't count?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u190	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u191	Declined, the committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:17]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u192	561 revisions are very important. It prevents the establishment or modification of the territorial boundaries used for the preparation, organization and conduct of national elections during the electoral process. Colleagues, let's really look at things that can change the boundaries of the district during the election campaign. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u193	Can you tell me the number again, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u194	561.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u195	561 axle. Is she rejected by the committee? I'll take her into account. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:11]] For-86 The decision is not taken. All right, can we keep going? Polakov. Is it Shahov?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u196	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Who's funny, please come to Lugansk, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u197	Please call the editor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u198	Edits 106, 264 and 278 and 382 and 443. Please put 106 on confirmation, secondly, give me 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u199	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u200	106 right. It's about recalling members of the local council. We called off the 25 deputies of the city of Severodonetsk in the near future, reloaded them, but no council is yet to be convened. For four years, we have struggled! That's why I'm asking you to put number 106, Alina Leonidina, on confirmation that no one else will ever be tortured, and they knew what parliamentaryism is, to MP local councils. Second, Natalia Královska said that today the Lugansk and Donetsk regions are in decline and in war. There are no district councils, nine governors or heads of the VCA have changed in the Luhansk region. Where did the billions go? Who would control the budget, who was responsible for the looting of government funds today? There are no public funds, as Margaret Thatcher said, that there are taxpayers' costs. So we need to fully support the Donetsk and Lugansk region on these issues and hold elections in the district council. If you don't do that, how are you going to look people in the eye, which today is a million 700,000 displaced people getting copies: 400 bracelets -- and the person who works, 800 bracelets -- that doesn't work. Can any of you live in this room at this cost? As people struggle on the sidelines, they don't know how to take down their apartment. No jobs, no jobs today. Today all the settlers are secondary, like me, like the Great One, like Sukhov. We're sitting in this room today, and we're secondary. We were unable to vote, thank you for even starting the vote, and we cannot put the members of the district council to the vote today. Who Answers Today? Imagine that the city council may show mistrust to a local police officer who is looting, not having anyone today, perhaps a governor or district attorney, and to a district police officer, we cannot express our mistrust. So let's go ahead and do what I'm saying: the district councils of Lugansk and Donetsk. And a minute, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u201	No, Your Honor, well, we made a deal. 106th, 443rd. Next, what two? Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u202	106th is for maintenance. There's no need for others. But I'll just put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u203	I'll bet 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u204	Yes. And give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u205	Colleagues, we're not going to vote right now, and you're going to go run past legislation. I'll bet you 106 votes. She's been rejected by the committee. Right? Please identify and vote. [[14:33:51]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. From "For the Future" Poles? Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u206	Dmitry Alexanderovich, can I have two tickets, two minutes, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u207	Come on. Give me two minutes, please. Please tell me the number of the rights first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u208	852th and 853rd. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention, these are two related amendments. I ask that each of you remember how nearly a year ago you got here. Not only did you pass the election but it was important how your victory was counted and who counted it. Someone went to the Council only through prolonged lawsuits, someone went straight through. But it is very important that all the votes you give out are very difficult to count the members of the district election boards and the district election boards per penny. They stood around all the time with boxes, ballots, records, queued for the KLA for two, three days to protect your results, and received money from the state for it. With these rights, I propose to raise their pay, if you put it simply, not 10 times, not 20 times, but just 2 times. I realize that this is disproportionate to their real work, but this will help avoid political corruption when some members of the DTC are forced to take black money to influence elections. It's very important. You know, there are 70 percent of the people who work on the election from election to election in every village, city, village, they'll be very grateful that you appreciate their work. Thank you very much. Please support my revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u209	I'll bet you 852 votes. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:14]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 853 revisions, also rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:34]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Fatherland, Krulko? Ivan Ivanovich, how many rights do you have? Please turn on Krulko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u210	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I don't have a lot of rights, I have two rights, we vote separately, they have different issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u211	Number line?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u212	Listen carefully. Amendment 1158. This amendment provides for the establishment of a maximum number of candidates in the regional lists, depending on the electoral region, since there cannot be the same number of candidates in different areas, such as Montenegro, Montenegro or Dnipropetrovsk. These are different areas, they can't be the same number of candidates. So I'm asking for amendment 1158, and so is amendment 1149, to support. Please, hall, concentrate and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u213	1158. Is it rejected by the committee? Declined. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:54]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Edit Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u214	Another of our amendments is the question of providing information on the absence of judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u215	Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u216	This is amendment number 888. If this amendment has already been voted on in Sergio Calchenka, then I will take this amendment off, and thank you for supporting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u217	888?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u218	Yes. But if Calchenka is voted on, then you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u219	You don't have to, okay. Can we keep going, Ivan Ivanovich? Thank you. Voice. Password, how many lines? Dear colleagues, we are simply not voting!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u220	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, the Voice faction, passed 312 straights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u221	I understand. Excuse me, one second. Maybe a few minutes and then a 15-rights vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u222	Several rights have already been counted. I'm not gonna put them to the vote. Other adjustments, please. 498.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u223	498?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u224	Yes. Dear colleagues, we have a desire to always control elections, including control through the Central Electoral Commission and use it as essentially an administrative resource. This is about CBC, this is about information and IT. That sounds good, but you can't afford to do without a special legislation that will regulate what technical means should be, what data security standards should be, which should be the standards of all electronic systems, now allow the CLF on one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u225	I'm betting on a vote in 498. Is it rejected by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u226	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u227	Please identify and vote. [[14:40:08]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u228	The next thing I know, it's relevant. This is 605 revisions. 605 correct. It also applies to CECs, namely territorial representations. There is a great risk here because the enormous powers of the CLTC are laid down when the territorial representations of the Central Electoral Commission will act as secretaries of the electoral commission. We're given this as an optimisation. We're given this as a kind of improvement and a positive change. But as soon as the CEC and their territorial representations are given additional powers, they will begin to abuse them. We remember the factor Janukovich. We remember that we cannot set a standard if we trust the good members of the CLTC, let us vote. Because tomorrow the members of the CLTC and the head of the CLTC can be anyone, and their powers can be used as an administrative resource. That's why the Voice faction and I are against the excessive powers of the CLTC in order for people to decide, not an administrative resource. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u229	605 correct. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:32]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u230	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm addressing you right now, because you said by procedure that we're going to end up looking at 90,000, 10,000, which is going to be self-reliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u231	We talked about 10, 25 and 35.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u232	My amendment, 1329, 1351. This is an amendment that says 90,000. We leave the self-regulatory limit, as it was 101 days before the election, we want to change the electoral system. There was no such amendment. Dmitri Alexanderovich, this amendment was not counted as 90,000 options for voting at the end of the vote. That's why I'm asking you to consider it. We have rural, rural, urban, city associations, associations of rural councils, local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u233	I'll let you know. We made a deal with your faction management the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u234	There's no 90 grand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u235	No, it wasn't 90. It was about 10, 25, 30 thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u236	But there's an adjustment of 90,000, too. So I'm asking you to take people's opinions into account. 1329.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u237	The number? 1329. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:02]] For-32 The decision is not taken. All right? Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u238	The following adjustments apply to circuits and district councils. Dear colleagues, number 1497. This is an amendment that applies to district councils. We know that there have been no changes to the Constitution. President Vladimir Zelensky has suspended the district government twice, has cancelled the district councils twice. But it didn't happen. One of the consequences of the large areas that will be offered for the consideration of the hall today will be an increase in the number of deputies. And the district councils will increase to 42-64 deputies, and some to. Listen, please. 84-20 deputies. If we don't take this into account, then we're going to get the district council giants, who still have the financial authority and all the other powers to reform decentralization. So, dear colleagues, consider this bill so that the districts do not destroy the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, the vote is passed by 497 People’s Deputies of Lozinski. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:27]] For-76 The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, not all of them have just heard, because we're looking at these amendments, we've seen how we started voting them, and now you see how we continue. Listen, please, we are going through administrative reform, decentralization reform is an extremely important reform. If there are larger areas today, we're going to have district councils, with these district councils, there's going to be district government administrations, their executive bodies. They will constantly oppress communities, but now not by the small district councils they were, but now by the district councils of the 80 - 120 deputies. I ask all my fellow members of the National Deputies once again to hear that the District Councils should go back in time, the communities, their budgetary powers should become our priority. You can't create district council giants and you can't put every village, village and city council in great danger right now. So I'm asking everyone to support the community and not to support the district councils and district governments here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u241	Please give me the correct number. You'd start with that. What's the amendment number, you didn't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u242	Amendment 1507.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 1507 People’s Deputy of Lozinski is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:03]] For-73 The decision is not taken. You have everything, don't you? Please. Do you still have your papers? Alone? Please, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, and now it's very important. We're talking about local self-government, right? It means that communities have to decide what and how to change, not party verticals, not state verticals, not President's Office, not party offices. 105 correct, I ask you to place it for confirmation. This is an amendment that allows the MPs to be called off. It's an amendment that allows you to make decisions over and over again who should make decisions rather than decide people, who would decide party offices. So I'm going to ask you to put this amendment for confirmation and without giving another minute, and within this minute, I'm going to ask you to put it on 1389 without making a statement, this is an old-age election amendment. We have to leave the election officer and represent the villages and villages in the OTG. There has to be real local self-government. Therefore, 105 revisions and 1389 revisions are requested for confirmation without the next statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u245	I bet. Colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. 105th for confirmation and then 1389 for confirmation. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u246	We need to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u247	What? I can't hear you. I understand that's why I heard the committee's position. The committee insists that the appeal remain, both one and the other. Do I get it right? Aren't you wrong? Ask for support, right, committee? Ready to vote? I'll bet you 105 votes. She's taken into account by the committee, and the committee's asking her to support her. Yeah? Please support and vote. 105 correct. [[14:48:28]] For 313 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I'm going to vote 1389. Please support and vote for confirmation. [[14:48:51]] For 274 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u248	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm not going to put nearly a thousand of my own, I'm going to put a couple of rights there literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u250	Amendment number six. It's very important, it's about changing into KUPAP and the Criminal Code. Friends, we passed Special Law 619, adopted it on May 19th, which provides that all changes to the KUPAP and the Criminal Code should be made by special law. During my consideration of this law, I specifically asked the question that we are amending the Electoral Code, which provides for appropriate changes to the KUPAP and the Criminal Code. And then we agreed that we were removing these changes to the second reading. I know that Alina Leonidivna has also supported this position on the committee, but the committee has somehow not listened and has not removed it. Let's follow the law we passed. There are no exceptions to the other laws that have been introduced. This is an imperative requirement for all legislation. Otherwise, we're going to vote on all the other laws where there are these changes, and that's a violation of the law. If you do so now, you deliberately place a mine under these changes, and then in court someone will definitely benefit from it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u251	Six adjustments, right? Is number six not supported by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u252	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u253	Declined. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:28]] For 172 Decision taken. Unacceptable, revision not supported. I'm sorry. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u254	I'll be quick. 83 revisions, these are changes to the Criminal Code, where you're supposed to think about a possible bribery of an election candidate. We have candidates who actually make bribes, and everywhere in the world are being punished by a briber. And we want to punish voters for bribing candidates. Well, I don't know that novice yet. But I understand why this is done so that every candidate in all kinds of elections can be caught for something, sorry, and told that he's being bribed by the electorate. That's why they take him out of the election and put him in jail. I ask such absurd things not to allow, but to support my amendment. Please vote in favour, 83 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u255	83 committee privileges rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u257	Please vote. [[14:51:37]] For 267 Decision taken. Edit included. Ruslan Petrovich, look, we don't have much time left. We're going to have a celebration, I remember, it's going to be a celebration. Are there any other adjustments that need to be taken into account? Last if possible, if you don't mind. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u258	If you can, with this 85th, because it refers to the same part of this article, the next part of this article. So that it doesn't happen that we've made our decision, but there won't be any in the other part. Or technically work it out and remove it. If it's technically removed, then I'm not asking that question. Do you want to delete it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u259	Exclusion of technical law? It's hard for me to answer right now because I don't know. I'll put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u260	Then 85th in connection with acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u261	Is this the last time you do your work?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u262	No, I'm still on bail. You said it yourself. It'll be the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u263	Yeah. It's a deal. 85 Committee review rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u264	The committee's dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u265	Please identify and vote. [[14:52:49]] For 327 Decision taken. Edit included. And the last installment of the bet, right? Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u266	Last amended 2456, it refers to the size of the election pledge. Our proposal is that, unlike the first reading, where we predict a reduction of 4 times, we anticipate, we ask that we support a reduction of 2 times the electoral bond. Our logic is clear. We think that the election stand, as it is all over the world, is a solid financial responsibility for both voters and voters in the electoral process. So it turns out that we're cutting 9 times the mortgage and all the financial burden on the budget and on each of the voters. There is no such thing anywhere in the world. Excuse me, do we have any problems in the country right now? We take it to the military, to the doctors, to the teachers, to the pensioners, and we throw everything at the elections that someone wants to get warmed up and fight the election campaign. He wants to be a pianist — let him put his money on the table, and along with the entire Ukrainian people, he shares the same solidarity and financial responsibility. Please support this amendment, it is very important for the organization of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u267	It's an increase in the wager, I understand? I'll bet you a vote of 2456. Is the number right? Is it rejected by the committee? Please identify and vote. [[14:54:21]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. 30 seconds, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u268	Alino Leonidovno, there's 1210 in my account, instead of 23 for something 24 days, what we talked about. Please restore 23 days, as agreed on by the committee, this is important technical and legal. It's a newsletter, remember, before.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u269	I understand it's time. But the right-hand side is the number 24.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u270	We won't change. It's not technical law. These are numbers. We're not going to be able to change that technical legal question. Ruslan Petrovich, what do you put to the vote? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u271	I'm asking you to take this situation into account and just consider this committee's amendment as technical and legal. I'm like the author of the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u272	No, it's from the voice. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u273	Because there are different numbers in different places. It cannot be in the same law that applies to the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u274	No, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u275	And the last 1684 was not confirmed, but 1645 contains the same standard. I'm asking technically in 1645 to remove the same standard that was not confirmed in 1684. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u276	1645, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u277	I think since we didn't count 1684, it's technical and legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u278	1654.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u279	1684.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u280	1684 can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u281	We didn't count it. We haven't confirmed it. We didn't confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u282	It's not your job. You're putting her on the stand? [[B in m in s a l in]] 1684. Because. 1645. Ruslan Petrovich, that's the wrong thing to do. Is she on the committee? 1684, it's now in conflict with the 84th that we've supported. Yeah? And Cornyenko can. The author does not insist, we may not support her. 1645. Yeah? I'll bet you a vote. The author does not insist on this. Do I get it right? For confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're not voting with this one right now. Please don't yell, you're not at home. I'll bet 1645. No, Ruslan Petrovich. The author thinks so. You're not the author, Ivanno Orestovno. You'll be the author of this amendment, we'll talk. I'll bet you 1645. The author does not insist on this. Please identify and vote. It's about confirmation. Right? Please identify and vote. [[14:58:26]] For-39 Edit rejected. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Let's move on to the blocks. The bet was voted on. That's right, we didn't vote. Next. Those changes that apply when election lists actually start to work. Amendment number 426, Kornienko, 10,000. Right? I'm reminding you, we're going to have 10,000 -- 426th, 25,000 -- 1331. Calchenko? 35,000 is 423 Bezgin's license. Is that what I'm saying? The three amendments we're voting on. 50,000 -- we didn't make a deal. 5 -- there's no such thing. Five thousand -- there's no regulation. Yeah? Dear colleagues of the factions, we've talked about 5,000, there's no such thing. There's 10, 25 and 35. All of it. First line, 10,000. I remind you, we're voting next. If the first one gets the second one and we don't put the third one, if it doesn't, we go to the next one. Ten thousand, four hundred and twenty-six. Is she for confirmation? Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko! Is she for confirmation? She's for confirmation. I'm betting on a vote of 426. Please vote. [[15:00:25]] For 273 Decision taken. We're not looking at any of the following revisions. Ten thousand. The next question block is a cluster of issues related to so-called quotas. Committee position? Gurin, give me your word, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. What is this about?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u283	Mr. Head, I have four tickets per ballot and per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u284	I wasn't talking about the newsletter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u285	No, they're connected there. I ask once three minutes to give me about all four revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u286	You can't hear me. You can't hear me. You can't hear me. I said it's not a newsletter, it's a quota of 5, 25 and 50, three allowances. 5 percent is 3677. Yes, the committee? Alina Leonidina! 3677 is what kind of edit? 3677. Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please. Listen, you're not going to vote that right now, and then you're going to be worried. Gurin 3677 by 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Today is the Day of State Sovereignty, and today we choose who we give the lists to. We're trying to set up a metal stick in the open list system to keep them closed, and so that the parties can pick all the candidates to come in. And I want to say that today we have to decide who we trust to choose in eastern Ukraine, who will be in the councils, the people appointed by the godfather of Putin, or the people who will be chosen by the Ukrainians? This is our choice on the Day of State Sovereignty. Vote for 5 percent supported by the committee, please. It's not about parties, it's about the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u288	Edit 3677. Listen to me, please. Listen, please. Dear colleagues, the first amendment is 5 percent. I'm betting on a 3677 vote, it's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[15:04:16]] For 197 Edit is not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! Listen, please! Next item. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Next item. 50 percent, us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, please, I'm telling you again. It's not a rally. We don't put 25 percent to the vote because it's the first reading. If 50 is not supported, we have 25. Do I get it right? Committee, please tell me under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u289	Yes, the first edition provides for 25 percent of the electoral quota. If we don't now take 50 percent of the proposal into account, then the first edition will work, what the committee proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u290	Did you hear that? I'll be right there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, please! Well, that's impossible. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we put it to a vote? Order 50 percent, Puzanova, 3972. Yeah? I'm putting her to the vote now. Turn on the Puzan microphone. Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u291	3672.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u292	It says, "Puzanov" is 50 percent. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3672. Yeah? 50 percent. Don't make any noise, please. I'm putting her to the vote now. Please vote. [[15:06:34]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Once again, the position of the committee, I want everyone to hear. Is the first reading still available, that is, 25 percent?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u293	From the electoral quota, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u294	And the last question that was the deal that was going to be voted on in the third block is the issue of the ballot. There are three revisions, they're Gurina. Yeah? Turn on the Dmitry Alexanderovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u295	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, everyone on the table has a bulletin, everyone has one, you can see it. And you can compare the left-hand ballot that was offered to the previous one. The main editorial, and what the committee agreed. You will be the electorate. And you can see for yourself what's right. The matter is more understandable. Please let's make elections for the voters, for the Ukrainians, not so that we can't choose a candidate, and no one has. We have to work for the people of Ukraine, not for the OPCW, which is doing everything we can not to choose candidates, but only those who will be listed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m0.u296	Listen to me, please. Listen, please! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we're not going to vote now, are we? Three orders: 3194, 3196, 3274. Yeah? I'm putting them to the vote now. They're supported by the committee. I'm putting them on the stand. 3194. Please vote. [[15:09:05]] For 228 Decision taken. 3196. Please vote. [[15:09:26]] For 265 Decision taken. 3274. Please vote. 3274. [[15:09:45.]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I lay down the law as a whole. [[Noise Nodes]] I am betting on the vote, honourable colleagues, to vote on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of electoral legislation (registration number 3485). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:10:40]] For 308. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Wait. Don't yell, I can't hear. We don't vote in the districts right now, we do. No, you have five minutes, four minutes left. [[Noise Nodes]] I can ask you a question, but you don't vote it, or a 30-minute break. There's one question. Can I not scream in the rostrum? Thank you. One question. Please tell me. Wait, wait, wait, wait. We've got a defense order, we haven't been able to vote for months, we've got three minutes left without talking about it? [[Noise Nodes]] Oh, no? All of it. Then I close the meeting. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Dear colleagues, if possible, should be able to leave their jobs quickly enough because the hall needs to be prepared for a meeting. And don't forget, please, things.
