ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Good morning, media reps! Please prepare for registration, we're starting our work. For those of you who have forgotten, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the "Z" green button, the first one on the left, yes. Are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:55]] There are 302 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, today three of our colleagues, three of our national deputies are Olga Valeriyovna Saladuha, and I welcome you, Sergey Petrovich Labazuk and Igor Fedorovich Molotok. [[Applause]] Hello! I wish you luck! I don't see everyone, but I welcome everyone. Health and Success! Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions: "Trust" and "Golos", the MP's "Trust" and "Voice," replacing the break for the performance. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow believers, fellow citizens! Today, you and I are going to be looking at the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whether it's a document called that. This is a document that you and I got a little bit over a month ago, and I don't think we can get back to that document we got. Because a document called the Cabinet of Ministers Program does not draw attention to a serious document. What we got is actually a school report. And what I'm now proposing is to evaluate it as a school report, not as a government activity programme. So first. The structure of the document. We have two chapters called "The Government's Short-Term Priorities" and "The Government's Long-Term Priorities". And then there's three chapters that don't go into priority: "Excellent standards of life," "Effective governance" and "Development of a safe country." It's very surprising that they don't get into any of the priorities. It is not clear when these programs are actually going to be implemented. Let's take a walk around our cabinet members, or the students in our class who gave the paper. The first chapter on short - term priorities, I understand, was written by the minister of health and the minister of economy. I think doctors will find it particularly interesting to read here about the purchase of protective equipment for doctors and many other things that they promise. But let's be honest: none of this is implemented, none of this looks like a serious government activity program. So to both ministers, I think it's worth two. Then we have chapters that were written, perhaps by other ministers or ministers. We once again have a chapter, which probably was written by the Minister of Economics, about the development of small and medium-sized businesses. General Wikipedia phrases. I'm sorry, when my students are writing a Wikipedia paper, it's not serious, it's a two. Then we have a chapter written by the minister of the interior. I would like to point out that there is no police reform section in the section written by the Minister of Interior. The same applies to the Minister of Justice: there is absolutely no chapter on judicial reform. Friends, if you don't understand the priorities, if you don't know what you really need to do, it's also a two. This is the estimate that we can place on this document today. I would like the government, of course, to be better prepared for this, to write a school paper, for example, to have an education minister. I understand that the minister of education did not show up, even though I heard that the boys from the regions were being dragged there. Well, I would recommend that my colleagues consider whether these recommendations of the parental committee should be followed. Mr. Smigal, as a class mayor, it's a two-way, it's not serious, it's not what Ukrainian citizens need. Please appear next time with the parental committee in the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, another statement came from two MP factions, from European Solidarity and Fatherland, about a break with a replacement for the performance. Jonah’s Maria Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u4	Good day to you all! Dear colleagues, I would like to speak to you today not only about the economic, financial, health and position of European Solidarity that the whole government has to resign, but also about the Sheremet issue separately, because we actually have a legal vacchanalia going on in front of us. At the same time, Parliament has, unfortunately, been ignoring the ruling on the creation of the TSC in the Sheremet case. And for free, because every day we have more questions than answers. According to three main suspects: Andria Antonenko, Julia Kuzmenko and Jana Dugar, there is total lawlessness against them, because there is no evidence, the motive for the murder is neither established nor proven, the investigators and prosecutors are operating on solid assumptions that are already being made in the people's memes, people are simply being assigned to take the lead from the real perpetrators of this crime. Lawyers, and I would like to point out that MEPs of European Solidarity are present at every session of Andrew, or July, or Jana, and have broken down every assumption of investigators. And I want to pay attention to a few of the screaming moments. First of all, all three suspects were detained illegally. The briefing announced the arrest of Antonenko before the investigating judge was presented with appropriate concern. The worst part is that the media is constantly broadcasting false evidence, gossip, and gossip. Most of the so - called evidence was only on television, and there are none in the case. I would like to emphasize that there is obvious evidence when Julia, Jana, and Andrew were completely unknown in 2016. The case files are now revealed by a lawyer. There's nothing new about them. The trail acts like a dumpster caught in a dropped log. And it's the texts in the decision of the deprived judges. They're like this legal achinia because it's a set of words that have no meaning or thought. To sum up, in this case we see a demonstration and presumptuous political order. We, MEPs of European Solidarity, urge all conscious MPs to come in on Wednesday, June 10, at 12:30 and listen, and to support those who are actually illegally and falsely accused of murder. And a pierre, which is a speculation on emotions that's very patriotic about Ukrainian people, is a dirty game that's going to turn, unfortunately, against those who set it up. Once again, Zelensky has appointed the entire government. Green was assigned to a well - known guilt briefing. And that's why the government has to retire, and it would be good for Zelensky to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. First question of the agenda: About the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 03.04. 2020 (registration number 12503/0/2-20). And according to article 85, paragraph 11, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consider and decide on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. In accordance with article 227 of the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. Report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 15 minutes. A statement by the Economic Development Committee's head in three minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes. Presentations from the National Deputies for up to six minutes. The Prime Minister's closing word is up to three minutes. And making a decision. Is there no objection? None. Then let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the report. Dear colleagues, how about a little quieter in the hall? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u6	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! This spring, the whole world, and Ukraine, including, faced a crisis that no one could have imagined or predicted. It's obvious that the disease is related to both the crisis of the medical system, the economic crisis, and the social crisis, including. It endangers both the lives of the people and the well - being of our country. Nevertheless, we believe that Ukraine has done well to meet the challenges that have come before us in this regard. It was very difficult for three months when the price of error was very high, and it was necessary to act quickly from the beginning of the pandemic. Both in our country and in our health system, there has been no collapse, even in the most developed countries of the world and Europe. Our doctors aren't overloaded. Lethargy from the virus remains lower than in most countries of Europe and the world. This is due to timely quarantine and, of course, to Ukrainian doctors. As the President said, we were all the Ministry of Health during this time because we knew that we needed to meet these challenges together. By the way, we also saw that our doctors would actually be on the front. Thus, when payment problems arose in early May, both the President and I personally joined the process together, we kept the situation under control virtually every day. Today, I can say that the government and the Ministry of Health have worked out all the necessary mechanisms. The National Health Service has made all necessary contracts with doctors. This means that 300 percent of the payments due to struggling doctors for both April and May will be paid on time. That's actually what we have to do for Ukrainian hero doctors. And I offer, of course, today to support and thank our doctors for the Titanic work they do, and every day they protect Ukrainian society, and they save the lives and health of Ukrainians, risking their lives and health. Thank the Ukrainian doctors. With regard to the challenges of the economic crisis, last week we presented and launched a discussion of the government's "Stimulating the Economy to Overcome the Consequences of Coronavirus" programme. This program was developed by government analysts and the best expert centres on the basis of a law passed by Parliament in March of this year. The presentation that we put out is an ideal framework for this program, which includes an analysis of the current state of affairs in the key sectors of the economy, and this ideaable framework is already reinforced by specific proposals for changing the legal field in this program. Support is also envisaged for virtually all sectors of the economy, especially small and medium-sized businesses. This program will allow us to become involved in economic recovery as early as the second half of this year. At the same time, over the past month, our government has been working with the MPs, with the committees of the Supreme Council on a new programme of government activities and updated that document that has actually passed every committee of parliament, and today we have an updated document. The coronation turned out to be the same "black swan" that partially changed our plans, and it didn't just happen in Ukraine, it's happening all over the world. Our partners in both the West and the East say that the horizon of planning through the pandemic has narrowed considerably. This, in turn, called for changes to the Government’s Activity Programme and other planning documents. We gave the first program of action with the understanding that we would definitely work on it. At the same time, the government did not want to violate the law and the Rules, so the program came to Parliament within the time limit prescribed by law. It was a basic document that determined the direction of our activity and the main beacons to which we planned to move in the uncertain conditions at the time. By the way, part of the steps that were set out in the basic document in the short term, we've already done it, and this is about the social direction. It's also an increase in pension payments, and unemployment assistance, and family support programs, and business lending programs, and hospital security, and a lot more. A single important point was actually restored from scratch to the epidemiological services of Ukraine. The pandemic has not really disappeared, so all the systemic steps taken will continue and even increase and expand. Since the government's first action programme, we've continued to work on it. We now have a complete and finalized document. Most of the national deputies and without exception all the committees participated in working out a common vision of the national programme and plan of action. The updated document now contains clear calculations, proposals for changes to the legal framework and the responsible persons for each item. Dear colleagues, our government is in the same direction as that of the nation that leads to overcoming the consequences of the epidemic crisis. And all the committees worked together with us in these directions. And we have today really an activity programme not to show and get some immunity, some preferences, but actually to be able to formalize, synchronize our joint movement to the changes that will give Ukraine the definition and confidence of our future. The government is actually working on the program, and in parallel, it is pursuing the directions and actions that are set out in conjunction with the committees. I agree with Mr. President of the Supreme Council that it is important, not when, but what matters is the content and quality of the document. It is important that the program responds to the challenges that are present today, that it be professionally written and, above all, carried out and produced, rather than remain dreams on paper, as it used to be. That's why today we're going to ask the National Deputies to send that Program of Government Activities to the polls. Following this step, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be able to introduce an updated programme of activities developed jointly with Parliament, with all committees. And after that, our government will be waiting for your support under the new document. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, fellow Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u7	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please invite the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Thank you. Today I'd like to talk about the chance of an unprecedented chance that our generation has faced for the second time in this decade. In 2014, the war with Russia gave us a chance to recognize the place of everyone in our own country, and the war with the pandemic this year gave us a chance to understand our country's place in the world, to rethink our economic model, our reforms, international trade and relations with international organizations. This opportunity arose solely because the response to COVID-19 and the crisis was exclusively national and was of an exclusively national nature. Citizens were left alone with a pandemic and relied on national governments, not multinational institutions such as the UN, the IMF or the WTO. COVID-19 is the war of the virus against all nations, it's a challenge to all humanity. And so each state has to decide how to answer it. So our motivation for this answer is not to serve foreign creditors and play with foreign importers, but to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian goods and Ukrainian services. Ukraine’s time to count on itself. The driver of the Ukrainian economy should be Ukrainian producers, not foreign companies. The blood of the Ukrainian economy should be the money printed in Ukraine, not sent by organizations abroad. The Ukrainian economy should be invested in the Ukrainian business, which deserves the best caregivers in the world. That doesn't mean we're arguing with our international partners, but we're continuing a constructive dialogue with them. This international partnership, colleagues, it has to be based on the economic self-sufficiency of countries, and the most reliable sign of self-sufficiency is exports of domestic goods and imports of foreign raw materials. And that's the kind of economic self-sufficiency course we'd like to see in the government's Crisis Action Programme. Unfortunately, there is a different course in this program, although we know that it was inherited from the previous government and that in times of crisis this government did not have the right time and opportunity to prepare for the challenges that our nation faced. And that is why we, as the Committee on Economic Development, recommend that the Chamber return to the Government's Programme of Action, taking into account the comments and suggestions made in its deliberations. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Well, it probably wouldn't even be a hand to analyze the deep program that we've been given, because we understand that it's a formality, and more so the Prime Minister in his report on the program asked Parliament itself to send this program for work. I'd like to say now not about this document, where, unfortunately, there's nothing for people, there's no numbers, there's no specifics. But let's talk about the intrigues that take place behind every Ukrainian's back. In fact, we see a situation where worse programs were voted in the turbines than this, in the form of laws, is worse, but we voted. Now, in order to then point to someone, someone is to blame, and someone has to be in white gloves, they're trying to put their government on the hook. We all understand that power is in the hands of one person in the country today, in the hands of the President. He runs the government, he's a real leader of government and of all power today, and of parliament, including. And in order to then be able to appoint the guilty, that's why they don't vote on their government's agenda. That's the real reason. Oh, well, there's more. As discussed in the Committees. All the committees are a back-up program. This was never the case in this session hall. In Honcharuk, I'll remind you, the former Prime Minister, who has already been replaced in this brief time, was 118 pages, and this program is 7 pages. But the 118-page Hotchark program didn't save him, and even his immunity didn't save him, because there was a command to resign him, and he carried out that command. Because today the power, once again, is in the hands of one man. I'd really like to ask you what? The government will now take this program for further work. You don't have to write big programs, but you have to give a specific number: how will people's lives improve; what will be markers for economic growth; what today must be done to get Ukraine out of this terrible socio-economic crisis, out of this pit; and how do you make the tax authorities and customs finally start collecting taxes into the Ukrainian budget, not because of scraps, because of corruption schemes? Here's what should be on your program. And then this program will be supported by all the halls, and it won't be like that when you get hung up on a hook. We do not accept such principles. And Fatherland is going to vote in favour of sending this program for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u11	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear friends, dear colleagues. To be honest, today, when we met in the session room, listening to the Prime Minister of Ukraine's speech, we did not understand why we had gathered today, what the purpose of our meeting was just to talk, just to complain and to listen as a result of the Prime Minister who asked for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian State not to accept the government's action programme, but to send it to work, asking for work as the weakest program of all that we had seen in all previous periods of the Ukrainian State. I think it's a paradox and I think it's nonsense, and I think we shouldn't listen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and today not just send it away, but press the red buttons and send the whole government out. This is the first position. I believe that we have a previous Prime Minister and a previous government to cover up for the predecessors, and this government has apparently covered itself well with the struggle against coronary disease. It's obviously a good tactic to explain why we're still going down the economy and why we're still being held hostage by the outside government. Today, the collapse of the economy as a natural coma, the snow coma flies, and the fact that it will collapse this government is obvious. It's important to us that this snowstorm of the economy today does not collapse the economy as a whole, because today the Ukrainian economy is the main patient that we have to save today. Our government does not discuss with the IMF, because what is the discussion when there is no restructuring of government debt? We haven't even gotten this so-called stand-by yet when we're in line for this stand-by, these miserable couple of billions of dollars, between Papua New Guinea and Guatemala. This is the price of this government that can't defend Ukrainian positions. The question of decentralization. So much has been done in Nadesh, in Zor, in Saratsk, and in other communities. And in Lviv, in Lviv, in Lviv, the OTH: they violently joined the mass of villages into the Lviv OTH. They don't count with anything. I don't think it's a frame. And at the heart of this box, if there's a memorandum of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, we shouldn't vote for such a government, because it's not just an economic blow, it's a blow to the pensioners, it's a blow to the budget, it's a blow to the state. We believe that. The MPs convince all factions and MPs in parliament, and non-factional groups, not only should they push red buttons against the government's so-called program and resign the whole government as a whole. And to move on, and to think about what a coalition government should form in this room, not a big government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u13	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u14	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, honourable ministers! You know, I have this kind of rain going on today, because there was a government in this bed recently -- and it had exactly the same problems as you. He had a communication problem with parliament: they didn't listen to Parliament, they didn't hear it, they didn't join in making decisions, they didn't find time for the national MPs to be heard. We have a representative in the Parliament, Vasil Mokan, who performs his duties beautifully. But very often he himself receives timely information that parliamentarians should know. I still can't find an excuse for why when the program was being developed and when the economic exit program was being developed. (Mr. Prime Minister, can you talk to the deputies later, please?) And when you did a program of getting out of the coronary crisis, you didn't involve representatives of the economic committee, because that's definitely not normal when there's a declaration before us in Parliament without any economic justification, without ways of implementing it, without any number. How are we going to control how Parliament controls what you've given us? I want to remind you that we are not the legal office, as your predecessor Prime Minister thought, and we are not the legal office of the Cabinet of Ministers. We have a parliamentary-presidential republic and we have to have real mechanisms to control your activities. So all the committees made the right decision and sent your program to work on it. And when government officials, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, ministers such as Minister Cherniszov, came and presented a wonderful program for the development of his ministry. He understands that now, first of all, we have to solve the issue of decentralization, second of all, we have to fight corruption in the organs that are now issuing the building supervision licenses. That's the right approach. But why is that not on the program? Why did we get the document, and now we have to waste our time here for meaningless conversations? That's why we're putting "inconsequential" on your program today. Go home and do your homework to get back and we'll give you a five. Because we're one team. We'll support you. And please conduct the teambuilding stickers, or without them, to work out a really strategic document, not what you submitted to Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u15	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u16	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, 10 years ago there was a great initiative in our country, when on the Day of Child Protection, children were invited to the Cabinet, gave their cabinets and the child "led" by the state all day. I'm convinced that the children who "led" that day by the state would rather write a program than the government today. You did not even run the 7th class program. Where is the energy security of our nation today? Last night, I was on the "Kraznolimanski" mine, which wasn't even paid for six months by miners in six months! Decommissioned coal. They say, "Why does Africa pay off coal immediately, from America -- immediately, our workers, our workers, they don't even give money to feed their families?" Why is there no single - gas program today? Why is it that again in America today, gas is being purchased and money is being paid in advance? Why are the billions of prizes paid today by Naftogaz Ukraine instead of paying the wages of the people who sit underground for a thousand meters? Please tell me, where were the audits of enterprises that were "adopted" 28 years ago? Why are they destroyed today, why aren't those who killed the economy still before you? And you have to check it out. Why is everyone hiding behind the coronavirus today? They hid behind the war six years ago, robbed in war, demolished those bases for billions of dollars, completely destroyed, suffered, and today you're hiding behind the coronavirus. Coronavirus, if available, should be treated with Ukrainian tests. Everyone in the room has to put blood on the antibodies. I am convinced that most of the national MPs, and in general the people in the country, have become infected with the coronavirus. Cheap tests of our Ukrainians by Ukrainian scientists. Why are tests abroad 30 times more expensive? Where is this program? Please tell me where your program says: support for small, medium, big business? There is support again for the oligarchs who rob the state. Who today will be helping a business that can still bring our country to ruin? We suggest that we send them for processing immediately. And please don't leave your offices until we have a normal program for our state. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u18	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Prime Minister, People's Deputies! Today's review of the program reminds me of the times of the Soviet Union, the party-household asset that deals with the program. Which is a brilliant analysis, the program itself is very bright, and it was a very modest implementation of these programs that we saw with our own eyes at the time. Similarly today, a bright queue program was drawn, but the first real step that the government had to take was to raise payments to doctors by 300 percent of the wages that struggled with the coronavirus. At the same time, at the same time, 27 billion were paid for external lending to financial speculators who bought bonds for our country’s loan. We think the government has completely confused priorities in its work: instead of supporting its own manufacturer, its own citizens, its own economy, it's doing external credit services without any attempt to restructure external debt. We counted: even on paper in this program, on all the unemployed, the real sector, the support of small and medium-sized businesses -- 100 billion dollars is all allocated, 20 times less than the neighbouring Poland. Of these, 144 billion are planned for external debt service, 27 of which were paid last week. We consider this to be an absolute disregard for the national interests of our country and our citizens. So our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" initiates the Retirement Order of this government, and the only decision in relation to this government that we support will be the decision to resign the entire composition of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u19	Please, National Deputy Vjatrović Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Porcelain Peter Alexiyovich, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u20	Dear friends, seven months ago in this room, there was a program of government activity, but few even in this room would mention the name of the then government action program. Because the government is now just a smokescreen, a smoke screen that is supposed to cover the real host, a person who is fully responsible for the situation in the country. And the name of this man is Vladimir Zelensky. He's the Prime Minister, he's the Minister of Economics, he's the Minister of Social Policy, he's the Minister of Internal Affairs, and he's the Attorney General of Ukraine. In May last year, our team handed over a country with an economic growth of 4.5 percent, with a full treasury of money. And already in December, in December, they created an industrial rescue committee of their own. In eight months, they had enough to bring the situation to its present state. This room was filled with self - criticism from the President. I quote, "Economy took the edge off, stumbled, and risked a face on the ground." These are the words of Zelensky when the program was considered. Now the economy is on the ground. And to save the economy to save jobs to protect people, we need to act now. We need to identify areas that need the most support. We need to protect small and medium-sized businesses by delaying the payment of bank interest, by delaying the payment of taxes. Stop the corruption of VAT. Stop corruption on customs. Stop the energy crisis. Stop talking and start acting. Investors do not need caregivers to protect and fulfil their obligations. We need to review Law 1210 immediately. And if that's the basis of your tax policy, you'd better do nothing. I emphasize and urge the President to ensure the formation of a professional technocratic government. And I'm calling on the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately issue us signed letters to collect signatures on this government's mistrust. The experiment with new faces failed. Ukraine's management is not a humorous evening or a beauty contest. This is a highly intellectual and highly professional business. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u21	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, congratulations! We're finally waiting for this paper that the government called the program, and we all called you a report, we're looking at it in three months. This is the paper that's on the 9th page. It was the paper that all the committees under consideration did not accept. And this is the paper that we're going to send you and me to the service today. But, you know, I don't want to pay much attention to this 9th page. We've already considered it. I want to talk about something else. You know, the government didn't find a "no" for businessmen. But somehow I decided that you and I are the 'neath' to the government. That's why the Voice faction and I decided to help the government and put together such a backpack for the government. What's here? For the next time they work well on documents, for the first time in economics, you'll find a lot of interesting and important information. Secondly, we put on a mask is the only thing you gave the doctors to protect, and to keep in mind your responsibility. We gave you nice bubbles so that the next time you decide to love each other's eyes and your citizenship, and we, the honourable people's deputies, don't waste your paper. Here's some nice bubbles. We gave you the calculations. Oh, no. It's very difficult -- budget calculations -- for you. You don't need it. We're giving you the Government's Teapot Program. Here, as you love: the cloud of words, the stickers, the slogans and the main question and the slogan is not to do anything stupid. This is exactly what will help this government to hold on a little longer. Last of all, let's say it's in your favor: we're giving you chocolate. First of all, it helps, and second of all, you remember this famous slogan about not stopping or delaying the program for three months. Most importantly, the national MPs, and now no jokes. This document, which they call a program, is worthless, it gives them immunity for a year. And I am grateful to each of you who gave a fair assessment of this paper on the committee. So I urge you all today not to vote in favour of this program, not to vote in favour of getting this document drafted, not to need it, not to be without immunity, but to fail together, to press the red button, and then to take the work, the proper work that is on every committee, and to make them a programme of activities that our Parliament will continue to work on. Well, we'll remind the government that once your program is broken, there is every legal possibility to collect 150 signatures and resign the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Please sign up for the speeches by the national MPs. Comer Natalia Igorovna. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Unfortunately, I have to say that, in nine months, the work of the majority of the second Cabinet of Ministers has become uninhabitable, more precisely, uninhabitable, all macroeconomic indicators have failed. Here the previous speaker said that there was a 4.6 percent increase in GDP. That's really true, but industrial production, not real income and all that. Today, unfortunately, everything is broken, and these are the results of that work and directly this Cabinet of Ministers. All your concepts of deconstructivism, destructuralism and other schizophrenias have led us to have a completely broken budget. In five months of this year, we have minus 52 billion dollars in the general government budget. We have a record in the history of Ukraine -- 650 billion dollars -- in the government budget of Ukraine. We have $450-490 billion worth of government debt. In fact, the country now lives in debt to cover its social obligations. And most importantly, this program is certainly not going to be supported by anyone right now, but unfortunately, the new 80-page program that was presented to us today, not today, but in the days, it's just as empty. It's the only thing that's different, it's just SWOT analysis and infographic, there's no calculation. Moreover, there is an analysis that ends in 2018 instead of calculations. I have a question: did you come from January 1, 19th, what do you take as a benchmark for the 18th year? Absolute zero, and there's nothing to talk about. I agree with my colleague that we do not need to hear and re-work this program, we need a new Cabinet of Ministers, which will work for the benefit of not individual energy barons, but for the benefit of the national economy and citizens of Ukraine. Another very important point is that external trade is locomotives, markets. What does this Cabinet of Ministers offer in its second program? And he's offering instead of going back to the Eurasian markets, we're offered a free trade zone with Britain. Imagine where we're going and what are the asymmetric conditions of trade and increasing imports in Ukraine. Of course, we will not support this program. And we think that this government is actually damaging the national economy. But we urge you to gather even committee leaders, collect from those deputies who have been elected, and propose an economic programme, a new economic course that will raise the real economy, industrial production, increase the real income of the population, and establish a fair tariff policy in all areas of activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u25	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u26	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! We understand that in this room everyone understands that it's not a program and that we're wasting our time for nothing, because the real program of government is a memorandum that they signed with the International Monetary Fund. And we all really understand that this is a strategy, because our government is today the International Monetary Fund branch, and they follow the instructions they're given there. So first of all, we demand that the government report to us, prove that they have signed on behalf of whom and what they are going to do. Because what we see is that in the memo they still want to continue the medical reform of Suprun: shut down hospitals and reduce doctors today. And what the Prime Minister here says is "thank you to the doctors," is that, Mr. Prime Minister, but you don't have to thank the doctors. You know, it's like the saying, "He's the one they were expecting money from, and he was giving hope." That's what doctors expect from you today, real support, money, salary, not "thank you." Thanks to the citizens they are saving lives today. The second question is education. What you signed with the International Monetary Fund is the closing of schools, that's the teachers' cut today. Stop bullying our children! Allow them to receive a quality education today. Listen, what about the fact that you're still going to raise tariffs, and who gave you the right to sign it? And the fact that pension reform is a nightmare at all, because you are under an obligation not to change social standards today, not to review the Ukrainian Pension Fund today, to create some collectors' agencies, not to move in any way to support our industry and national producers today. Mr. Prime Minister, a respected government, you don't have to create fiction here and imitate your violent activities. Well, first of all, if you don't know how to make a plan of action, "The Opposition Platform for Life" has prepared an anti-crisis plan for you, and we're ready to tell you gradually what to do today. Well, if you don't want to work, so don't experiment, don't abuse the country, please write a statement, we'll gladly vote it out, and go get some rest. Because you've been quarantined for three months instead of taking anti-crisis measures and saving people and countries. That is why we will not support this and demand your resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, two minutes is the Prime Minister's closing statement. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Denis Anatolyovich. Invite the National Deputies to the Hall, and we will proceed to the vote after the speech of the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u28	Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to those committees that have worked constructively with ministers and with the government on a plan of action, on the Government's Action Programme. Today it is a solid document with calculations, conclusions, goals, specific dates of achievement of these goals and results. Therefore, of course, the documents worked will give us a basis and a vision of where to move, what reforms are the priorities for today in Ukraine, and how we should implement reforms for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of our country of Ukraine at a difficult, difficult time. Thank you and I would like to support the program's return to work so that we can join you in adopting the right strategic document that will be followed by the country in the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, I haven't said what we're voting for yet. I will certainly speak. I am sure that I will hear the wording of the vote. I haven't told you yet. I invited the national deputies to the hall to prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 227 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee's proposals put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree (Registrational No. 3330/P) on the purpose of furthering the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Programme of Activities, taking into account the comments and suggestions made in its deliberations. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. For processing. I repeat. Please support and vote. [[10:59:14]] For 245 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Liberation of the Bay of Vadim Volodymyrovich from the post of Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal introduced to the Supreme Council the application for the release of dock Vadim Vladimirovich from the post of Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration, the relevant materials are distributed to all of you. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:00:30]] For 284 Decision taken. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u30	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable national deputies, regarding the question of the release of Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Pristajk Vadim Volodymyrovich, the discharge takes place in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the first part of the Constitution of Ukraine, is filed accordingly. And from myself, from the government, I want to thank Vadim Volodymyrovich, and thank you very much for the work he did and the support, the system, the fighting spirit. We've come a long way together. A distinguished professional diplomat. I am confident that Vadim Volodymyrovich will continue to serve and work for the benefit and benefit of our country. Thank him. And I also report that after the release of Vadim Volodymyrovich, a suitable candidate for the post of Vice-Prime Minister from European and Euro-Atlantic integration will be submitted, which will be suggested in your opinion. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u31	Thank you. The chairman of the committee is invited to report, sorry, the first deputy head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Galajchuk Vadim Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u32	The Honourable Presidium, dear colleagues, was commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Dmitry Razumkova of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union at its meeting on 3 June 2020 to consider a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the liberation of the Party, Vadim Prisik of the post of Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of the country (registration number 3583) (from 03.06. 2020) The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a report on the work of Vadim, Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration, and to determine how to vote for the relevant draft Supreme Council decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? You have to. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u34	Please give it to Shah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u35	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u36	I would like every minister in office to report fully on his work, and not only Pristika, but all of them. We saw the previous government escape in three minutes. I don't want this government to run away like that, it's very good that the borders are closed. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u37	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u38	I'd like to pass it on to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u39	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u40	Good afternoon! Well, first of all, we would like to point out, particularly to government representatives and the future, that the Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration, as well as to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that you are, despite the fact that international politics is the President's priority, you are not Vice-Presidents of the President's Office, and we would very much like to see systemic work at last. Not enough, every three months, the change in the Vice-Prime Minister from European and Euro-Atlantic integration is actually very strange. Question: does this change our strategy, do we have problems in our heads every three months, or does this give us more stability in the political arena? And the last thing I'd like to do is ask for priorities. And the shame and shame of the government is actually to write these five lines of foreign policy that your program doesn't have. This is a disgrace not only to Ukraine but also to the outside world. I find it difficult to find our partners there, and the foreign policy strategy that exists today and is chaotic. does not exist and is chaotic. And you know, it's so sporadic that it actually only happens where the President comes in. And I still want to see the results of the trip to Oman, what did you do there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u41	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u42	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, actually, the first thing you have to do today is hear the report of the Stalker. Because this practice, when the minister gets laid off in absentia, ministers are appointed by default, has to be stopped in our country. And clearly, the Prime Minister should at least come to the factions' meetings and present his candidates, and why they're being released, and explain the logic behind their appointment, and why individual candidates were campaigning for political parties that are diametrically opposed to the views of that political party that assigned you to this position. This is all to be understood. We realize that there are many professional issues. Indeed, the government must be technoctic. But your involvement in direct and logical decision-making as a government manager is important to us. That's why I'm asking you for the future: every time any personnel change takes place. God is with him, it's your question, we'll support, we'll strengthen your government by any minister you suggest, if he's really professional, but please take the time to come to the faction, talk to us, explain why some of the personnel changes need to be made. And the practice that we're putting out in a country where international politics is at the top of the line, in a country where war is currently taking place, is absolutely unacceptable when the vice-premier is released. So we need to hear his report here in Parliament, he has to say what he did, what he brought to Ukraine during his tenure. And there can be no other logic. So for the future, I'm asking you to do just that. Because otherwise we're going to vote against any of your proposals. Thank you for your attention. Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u43	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u44	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, I'm not talking about a last name again, because neither the name of the Prime Minister nor the name of the Vice-Prime Minister nor the ministers in these governments matter. All decisions regarding foreign and domestic policy are made in the Bank’s. In the government, there are simply performers. I'm talking about facts. I'm saying that this authority declares European and Euro-Atlantic integration, and actually the reality looks different: we made a car, and you gentlemen made a trip. You've appointed a Vice Prime Minister from Euro-Integration to protect the rights of employees. But our employees must be protected from our own government. And then we had to make the Ombudsman to protect human rights this responsible or most powerful minister of this government. Parliament says flexibility, the government says it's impossible to reach standards, and it's actually a decision. NATO standards, and decisions are made that run counter to our commitments to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Colleagues, European and Euro-Atlantic integration are not foreign politics, it's a tiny bit of serious work, it's a system of work for all interior ministries and departments. And this, in my opinion, this carousel, which has been invented with changes in the vice-premiers of permanent ones from this direction, means that there is no real intention of moving Ukraine to achieve strategic goals for EU and NATO membership. Otherwise I can't explain this horde and these changes, and I can't explain this ferret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Koltunović is now motivated by the OPCW. And then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to answer some of the MPs who asked questions: Why is there no report? And there is no report because those promises that were made were not fulfilled. Promises to view, deepened, inclusive, free trade zones to the best. But we've looked at it this way, and we've got an 8.6 percent reduction in exports of goods to EU countries in the first quarter of the 20th year. That's how we do the expansion of our producers into European markets. One more moment. And we have silence because we have a commitment not only to economics but to the implementation of technical regulations and standards so that we can increase the competitiveness of the national economy. What's done? Nothing. The global competitiveness rating is minus two or three positions a year. That's how we're doing Euro-integration. That is why, of course, we support the resignation of such a Deputy Prime Minister, and unfortunately, the results of his activities have been negative for the national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u48	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. And prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u49	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government! The MPs, the Party for the Future, will vote in favour of resigning the Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, we agree with our colleagues that the practice of resigning should be only after the report on this rostrum of each member of the government. Likewise, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you, Mr. Prime Minister, that, according to your Minister of Justice, human rights are not in the focus of the Cabinet of Ministers. After that, in any other state, such a minister would write a resignation application or there would be a reaction to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It turns out that Kabmin works for all things except people, except for the protection of human rights. So, of course, we support the practice of resigning as we wish, but very soon there will be the resignation of the entire government if you do not change your attitude towards Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the release of dock Vadim Volodymyrovich from the post of Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine (Registration No. 3583). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:13:10]] For 296 Decision taken. I would like to thank Mr. Pristika for his work in the government. Thank you. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with articles 83, 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in accordance with the proposals made by the deputy faction of the Political Party "Staff of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes most of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. Let us go to their consideration. You have been proposed a motion for a decision to appoint Stephanie Olga Vitaliyovy Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, so, as Vice Prime Minister for European Integration, I propose that the Supreme Council appoint Mrs. Olga Stefanishina. She's a high-class specialist, managed by the Government's European and Euro-Atlantic integration coordination office for actually three years. It's very deeply absorbed in the subject and it understands where we've built into European integration and how we're accelerating in that direction. Olga Vitaliyevna will be facing the vice-premier with the task of actually restoring the work of this Office from the coordination of European integration. You know, we sometimes see Euro-Atlantic integration as a purely foreign political story. But in fact, it's about reforms inside the country. This is not what Europeans need, but we need to carry out reforms with you to have a successful country. We have to move only in the best of world practices. At the same time, this movement must be parallel in all areas. Another ambitious and complex task facing the new vice-premier is to negotiate with our European partners to review the EU Association Agreement, especially on trade quotas. We expect active cooperation from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Parliament, and from the Office of the President. Actually, this is the key task of the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention. And I'm bringing in an appropriate application. Draft decision on the appointment of Stephanie Olga Vitaliyovny Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u52	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal: now for up to five minutes, a statement by the candidate, followed by a question from the MP factions and groups, one question at a time, after that, the position of the committee. And let's go to the vote. Is there no objection? The candidate for the post of Deputy Prime Minister Olga Vitaliyovna Stefanishina is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you for the opportunity today. In fact, in the face of a global economic crisis that will affect not only Ukraine, but the whole world, the issue of European and Euro-Atlantic integration becomes even more important, and they become not a political process, but a condition for Ukraine's survival. Today we have the largest market in the European Union, which is on our continent. This is the market that we have to expand for ourselves, and this geography has to expand. Today. That's why I think it's necessary right now to sound a few priorities that will allow us to negotiate with the European Union, not as a subject of foreign policy, but as a full-fledged player in the world arena. Today you've all had the opportunity to get to know and hear the President's words, many of you have spoken, and it's also the government's priority in terms of protecting national goods, protecting national goods, protecting national economic security. This can now be done in the context of initiating the review of the Association Agreement, starting in 2021. Similarly, since our priorities for European and Euro-Atlantic integration are invariable, we must insist that funding is commensurate with the reforms Ukraine is implementing on the path to European integration. Likewise, I think it is necessary to negotiate an increase in funding, not credit, for Ukraine, access to cross-border cooperation programmes, increase bilateral cooperation with neighbouring countries on infrastructure development and projects that will ensure the liberalisation of trade services. Similarly, we need to introduce those changes to legislation that have been adopted by today's Parliament on customs liberalisation, because today, as has been noted, trade dynamics with the European Union are no longer so high because we have to start making changes that have been approved. This is a priority job in the position of Vice Prime Minister. Again, work towards the EU and NATO is a command job. It is impossible to do, to implement these reforms without interacting with Parliament, with the President, with the government. So I think that the position of Vice Prime Minister is the position of operational manager of this process, which ensures the daily achievement of great results, giving results every day. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups: one minute for questions, two minutes for answers. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear friends. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, of course, we regret that the candidate for the Deputy Prime Minister does not find time to meet with the "For the Future" party's deputy group, unlike other candidates for this position, and this is the factor that deters us from giving our vote. But in this context, I would like to ask you about the irreversibility of the integration course into the North Atlantic Alliance because today we are narrowing it down because of a number of circumstances related to the fight against coronary disease. What is your position on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic, so dialogue with Parliament is beyond question. That's the first one. The other one. The issue of the irreversibility of the course is not political decisions, the irreversibility of the course is that the European Union and the countries of the European Union are the countries that are primarily neighbours of Ukraine. So European integration is a natural process for our country. It is important to ensure that the process of European, Euro-Atlantic integration is based primarily on the national interests of Ukraine. With all the branches of government working together, working together within the government, it's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u57	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini. Olzy Anatolyevny Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u59	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u60	Olga Stefanishin, the Voice faction. I want to say that I worked with Olga in the government a few years ago, and I know that she's an effective person who knows what she's doing. I want to wish Olga good luck in this government, because she's going to have a hard time with colleagues like Mr. Maxim Stepanov, who's already famous for buying protective suits for doctors twice as expensive as they've come to hospitals. By the way, colleagues, if you would like to sign the resignation order, please also consider signing Mr. Habakkuk’s resignation order, with which Olga too will not be easy. And I want to ask Olya, what are your performance indicators? Well, it's good luck. I think we need to take a picture together so we don't get confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u61	A brief comment. Thank you, Olga. I'll be very brief. The three main priorities and, let's say, the KPI of my work are to form an internal position of Ukraine in terms of the format and scope of the review of the political and economic association agreement, to look at the financing conditions of Ukraine not only as a country with which the EU works, because we are talking about market integration; and the third is to work together in the form of the Parliament-President on the development, adoption, implementation and implementation of decisions towards the implementation of Ukraine-NATO's annual national programmes based on Ukraine's national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u62	Please, National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u63	Please pass the word to my colleague Nemira Grigori Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u64	Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. I have a question for a candidate. If you're approved today, you're going to be the third Deputy Prime Minister on European and Euro-Atlantic integration issues in nine months -- that's the world record, probably from the point of view of such a human resources guard -- I want you to answer a question that you think is the reason that Ukraine is changing the third Deputy Prime Minister, three Vice Prime Minister, from the same question in nine months? It's important to answer it, because if there's no answer, the next couple of months -- and there's going to be a new Deputy Prime Minister. How do you answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gregory, for asking. I think the main thing is that despite the changes in positions and in the names of the vice-ministers, we need to ensure the continuity of bureaucratic processes, the continuity of the work. I see it as a priority in this position. Because, as you can see from my bio-help, I have a long enough time in public service, and I understand how sometimes political changes can have a negative impact on the implementation of these or other reform priorities. So one of my tasks will be to ensure the continuity of the changes that I intend to make along with the government and the parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u67	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u68	Please hand it over to Oleg Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u69	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u70	Good afternoon! At first I would like a brief comment on what is absolutely justified and justly asked Mr. Nemira. You know, when three people whose professional qualities are beyond doubt consistently change each other in nine months in the same position, it's not random in diplomatic circles, including in Europeans, that it's only a matter of wanting to get rid of one professional diplomat and send him away from the presidential team. And for that, all of these rotations were actually made. Now, actually. Because it didn't work with one of the President's officers. Now, actually, the question. My colleague, Mr. Rabinovich, recently passed a bill on the creation of a special economic zone in Odessa. There are similar bills from other deputies. Please tell me how you plan to negotiate with the European Union on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u71	Sorry, I won't add time, Oleg Anatolyovich. There is no further question. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u72	Please give Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u73	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u74	Dear Mrs. Olga, at the annual press conference, President Zelensky, who under the Constitution is responsible for foreign policy, and the internal one, he did not mention Euro-Atlantic integration in any way. One time he mentioned Crimea, one time he mentioned Donbas, and then he talked about roads and stuff. Similarly, Parliament's leadership today says that we need greater flexibility in matters of Euro-Atlantic integration, rather than demanding Parliament to make Euro-Atlantic integration our guide. Does this mean that you are now a member of the team, ideologically a member of a team that considers Euro-integration irrelevant, irrelevant? And the President, we see, yesterday he opened a nursery, drank coffee in a coffee shop (without a mask, by the way), along with his Office of the President. Is that your ideology? And to the head of the Supreme Council. We demand that we have signed letters to resign the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for asking. I'm going to give a very brief answer to that question. Maybe the President in his press conference didn't mention once about European, Euro-Atlantic integration. At the same time, on 26 May, he approved the Annual National Programme of Cooperation with NATO, which is based on the format of the Membership Action Plan developed with European partners, which, irrespective of whether there were questions or answers that reflect the President's ideological platform, is supported by matters and concrete actions that will be implemented by the government on the basis of a policy that is formulated by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u77	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Vintonjak Oleni Vasililowni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u78	Vintonak Olena Vasilivna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u79	Good afternoon, Mrs. Olga. I'd like to ask you a question like that. The government's parliamentary platform is an important tool for introducing a Euro-integration course. It was convened six months ago, and after that, cooperation stopped somehow. Will you call for active participation and appoint representatives from the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. Indeed, given that the issue of European, Euro-Atlantic integration is not a question of diplomatic relations, it is not only a matter of negotiations with European partners, it is primarily an internal work that covers all spheres from social protection to transport, infrastructure projects, the system-wide interaction between government and parliament is crucial. Obviously, this dialogue should continue. Given the priorities that I have already outlined, the order of the day of such a dialogue will be accurate and I hope that there will be support in Parliament and in the work of this platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u81	Thank you. We're going to listen to the committee's position. The first Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Integration with the European Union, Vadim Sergiyovich Galajchuk, is invited to attend. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u82	Honorary Presidium, Colleagues, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitra Razumkova, Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union, at its meeting on 3 June 20th, discussed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Olga Stefanishina Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine (resistance number 3584) (from 03.06). In 2020. As a result of the discussion, after finding out the position of the people’s deputies, the members of the committee discussed the matter in a comprehensive manner and the committee decided to support the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, subject to the approval of Decree 3583, on the release of Mr. Pristajk, who we have successfully supported, thank you. Please also support this determination. And it's not about the date of Ukraine's accession to the European Union (although I'm sure it will happen), it's about internal reforms, it's about the very complex processes that we're going through with you now. It's about bringing Ukrainian legislation closer to European legislation, the role that you and I play is crucial. This is about moving closer to the standards, to the EU technical regulations, which has been discussed today. So there's been a lot of involvement in these processes, and we're with you. And it is necessary to approve this candidacy, Mrs. Olga Stefanishina, in order for us not to stop, to accelerate in this process. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decision No. 3584 on the appointment of Stephanie Olga Vitaliyovna Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:33:36]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you. Orders adopted in general. Hello! Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the appointment of Mr. Alexander Vladislavovich as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine (registration number 3585) Please don't break up, wait. Procedural decision. We heard the previous candidate at the following algorithm: the Prime Minister's statement, then the candidate's statement, the question-answer to the candidate, then the committee's position, and then we go to the vote. There is a suggestion to take the questions and replace them with speeches by MP factions and groups. I'm going to put the first question to the vote, and then we're going to vote, or we're going to speak to the MPs. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because it's not, because it's not. Please show me where this is provided by the Rules, Your Honor. Show me where it's supposed to be. Dear colleagues, or we can do it in a nutshell. Let's do it in a nutshell. Where is this supposed to be impossible? Let's do it in a nutshell. The decree is being considered for a reduced procedure. Shall I put it on the vote? Short-term procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the draft Order on the appointment of Mr. Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:35:49]] For 260 Dear colleagues, "shulers" is, I think that's what you think. Yes, you have a great deal of experience in this. Thank you. The report is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Šmigal Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! The minister of culture and information policy is proposed to appoint Alexander Tkachenka. I don't think the people's deputies need an extra presentation from Alexander Volodymyrovich. And you were able to see what his expertise was. I personally and our government also cooperated during the meetings of the Cabinet Economic Development Council. There Alexander Tkachenko also showed and proved to be a true advocate of cultural industries and creative industries. You know, I think it's very important when the minister is in pain for the branch he's taking care of. It's always an additional motivation to work better and it's one of the criteria for selection to our government team. Now I expect the new minister to be able to present a comprehensive approach not only to cultural initiatives but also to work in the field of information policy. In addition, within the government's economic stimulus programme, we plan to support the post-crust economy by actually 1.5 billion dollars for cultural industries. It is very important to present a transparent and rational approach to this funding and in these approaches. This is one of the first tasks before the future minister. I'm introducing the Supreme Council Decision on the appointment of Tkachenka Alexander Volodymirovich as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u85	Thank you. You're welcome. Dear colleagues, will we listen to the candidate? I'll give you five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no discussion. Discussions later. Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u86	Good afternoon, colleagues! Culture is certainly an element that cements this country and society and creates additional possibilities, Mr. Herasimov, for its development. In Ukraine, the area of culture is 1 million people. Each year they form about 4 percent of the country’s GDP. But their contribution is much greater, because without culture there is no future, without culture there is no nation, without culture there is not all of us. During the crisis, we united the entire cultural field — the publishers, the cinematographers, the museums, and all the representatives of the cultural environment. I thank them for this because the cultural field and the creative industries are shaping Ukraine's DNA. As a result of our unification, we have managed to maintain a budget for culture, to form a package of laws to support this area, so that people can save their jobs. In particular, Bill 3377, which we voted unanimously on the committee yesterday, is the first step towards Ukrainian culture and the hand of assistance from the state. We should continue to work together and not divide the country into patriots and traitors. At last, for the sake of culture, there is an opportunity for unity. What challenges and priorities? Priority number one: to refinance this area. Mr. Schmigal! Priority number two: increase funding for this area. And certainly complete the restructuring of the Ministry, the formation of agencies, the administrative capacity of the Mincult and the conduct of audits. The real figure to be used to support culture and tourism is 3-4 billion dollars to survive and return development opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u87	All of it. Alexander Vladislavovich, colleagues chose a short procedure. In fact, I'm sure you've had a lot of time to prove your professionalism, your knowledge, both on the Committee and on the Supreme Council, and to that and other important positions that you've held. So thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. The word for the report is given to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Crawchuk Eugenia Mikhailni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, yesterday our Committee on Humanities and Information Policy actually unanimously, except for one faction, supported Alexander Tuckenk's transition to the Ministry. It's very important that it's the subjects of our committee's knowledge and the objects of the ministry's knowledge that are completely consistent. We've already started quite a lot of work on how to prepare important industries for the creative industries of the bill. We are counting on the support of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to provide additional funding for grants for creative industry representatives. Our committee is asking for the support of Alexander Tkachenk's candidacy as Minister of Culture and Information Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two for, two for, and two for, against, on. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u90	Your Honor, honourable national deputies, I don't think we need to speak much for our candidate for this ministry. During our joint work in Parliament, Alexander showed that he was really a professional, that he was a patriot of Ukraine, and that he would be worthy to represent this ministry in all relations with all the authorities of the state. So I call upon all the national MPs to give their votes for the Tuck of Alexander, to support him in this position. And I'm sure we won't be ashamed of his work as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u91	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u92	Please tell Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u93	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u94	Good afternoon. Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Mr. Tkachenko, we do not envy you, but we wish you success. And I hope that both the government and the Supreme Council will allow you to make all the positive changes. But we wanted you to accept our suggestions as well. First of all, it's an information security issue. It's got to be floating at least as much as any other area of culture and stuff that's coming to you. And it's not really a question of producing new channels that will say, for example, in a temporarily occupied area that are extremely difficult to find. In the Luhansk and Donetsk region, we did not see any broadcasts, including when we went east last week. I mention, in particular, the "Dom" TV channel. I wanted to talk more about a complex approach so that not only East and Crimea, but also Volin, Plains, Cherniveckin, Odščina, could hear Ukrainian radio and television. This is number one. The other one. It's a real cultural heritage. That's what's gonna come down on you, a huge layer on your shoulders. And you know very well that all the permits, the papers, the money and the withdrawals, they go through the immovable cultural heritage. Next item. I can't help but mention here all the Odessa that just mass writing, I think, especially to you. It's a question of Odessa's film studio. Will she return to government property? And what is your role and position with regard to the Odessa Film Studio? Next. District museums. Today, I may not mention again the Odessa Art Museum. Where it's very strange, the Odessa District Council is once again taking down, and through the courts, Mr. Alexander Roittburd from the position of director of the museum, and he's actually turning this into some kind of weird structure. A structure for interest. And the last two. It's the support of cultural institutions in OTG, where the human factor is extremely large. People just shut down libraries and cultural buildings. Ukrainian cinema and books. Give them a chance to be. And the third. We wish you success. We don't vote, but still.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u95	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u96	Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u97	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Germany's Opposition Platform for Life. Let me inform you about article 1 of the Ministry of Culture. It should also ensure that national policies are formed in the areas of cinematography, restoration, and preservation of national memory. And who is Smeagal imposing on us here? Today's candidate is the beneficiary of the entire film industry in our country. And, first of all, he has broken the law, and the State Bureau of Investigation is considering the case under article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Does the Prime Minister know about this? And about the abuse. You remember when you considered Law 3377, the bill, Tkachenko here said he wanted to extend his hands to culture. You don't need your hands there, your hands should be clean, your heart cold and your honor. Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry, look, there's essentially a policy, a policy of legal nihilism, which is based on political relevance and material convenience. Was that not evident in June of last year when the humanitarian committee was pronouncing the privatisation of Odessa kinostudi for the honorable Mr. Alexander Tkachenk? Wasn't that right? Why didn't the Economic Committee consider this right? Because he's the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Urban Anatoly Igorovich After that, Konstankevitch. Then we go to the vote. Please. Then there's the motive, and then we're going to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u100	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Tkachenko, I would like to ask you what will be the fate of our Odessa cinematudio and what will be the term of our Odessa cinematudio, and when will it return its "former majesty"? Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u101	Unfortunately, there is no way to ask a question, chosen. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna I'll finally give you the procedure, and you can answer Urbansky's question again. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, I believe, and I have the right to speak from the Group "For the Future" about what we really need today to support Mr. Alexander Tuckenk's candidacy for the post of Minister of Culture. But at the same time, I want to emphasize one key notion that he said that culture is the basis of our national DNA. And I hope, Mr. Alexander, that you will maintain your position as statesmen. And in that sense, I ask you very much that you have priority over national television, particularly social television, which has already been auditioned, and there are many questions to it. I hope that the issue of libraries and museums will be in your sight, and children's libraries in particular will not be destroyed. I hope that art education will likewise be preserved as a foundation of its national traditions. And most importantly, all of that DNA, all of that DNA that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Who's speaking? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u104	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Finally, a hundred days later, the government decided that the Ministry of Culture needed us, too, and found a candidate. And of course, it turned out to be after a long search, a person who worked as director-general of the television channel, on which was a work of art at the world level, "Serve of the People." And now it's clear that some of these are going to have big benefits, and the state is clearly going to have negatives, and one of the negatives is the Odessa kinostudi. The fact is that the company that owns Mr. Tkachenka’s family is now judged for 12 percent of Odessa Film Studio shares with the Ministry of Culture. So Mr. Tkachenka's company will be tried by the Ministry of Culture, headed by Mr. Tkachenk. Conflict of interest? We haven't heard, we don't know anything about it. I welcome you friends, this is a new step even in your personnel policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Procedural. I'm going to let Tachchenka do the procedure. If there's time left, he'll answer Mr. Urbansky's questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u106	I'm glad that in this country there's only Odessa's film studio in the field of culture, and only because I have a touch with it. No one sees the National Cinematography that's been stolen, no one sees the National Cinematography that's been stolen by half, everyone sees the Odessa Film Studio. I know there are no boundaries in the lie, because it's ignorance and the homage that I hear all the time about it. So I want to state that there will be no conflict of interest. My stock is ready for sale, and in no blind trust, I'm sorry, and this case will be done soon. Conflict of interest, I can't vote for myself. Yes, I have a conflict of interest. I won't vote for myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. In accordance with articles 85 and 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3585) on the appointment of Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Ilja Volodymyrovich, let's vote. Please support and vote. [[11:54:26]] For 263 Decision taken. Congratulations, Alexander Vladislavovich! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, don't break up, please. Show by factions. Don't go away, please. Now we have a few more votes. According to part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of the person who is a national deputy, for submission. The person shall be added a personal statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the time-limit for the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question of the composition of Ukraine’s national deputy office is addressed immediately after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian National Deputy Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Can you be a little quiet in the hall, dear colleagues? Thank you. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:42]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich, for the work you did as a national deputy of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers on the day of his appointment shall serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of oaths. Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Stefanishina Olga Vitaliyevna, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u108	I, Stefanishina Olga Vitaliyevna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of our state, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Congratulations on your assignment. [[Applause]] Please take a seat in the government's bed. Minister of Culture and Information Policy Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u110	I, Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. The one moving forward will be strengthened!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u111	Congratulations, Alexander Vladislavovich. [[Applause]] 12:00. There's a break until 12:30. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions for a break with a replacement for the performance. Please. Kirill Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished, distinguished colleagues! Nesterenko Kirill, 26th District, Dnipro. Now I want to address you, colleagues, as well as every resident of my own Dniper about the pain. Almost everyone has seen the news of the 600 graves in advance for the dead from the Coronavirus, the falsified test results on the coronavirus, and the disorder in Dniper. Under the word "disorder," I also mean total green planting in the city in violation of the legislative procedure. Regrettably, thanks to the city’s authority, this is a situation throughout the city that is transformed into mass MAFIs, stone jungles, and parking spaces. With such a trend, soon every denim will pay for parking even in his own backyard. However, the city’s head, Boris Filatov, continues to justify and cover the actions of local authorities by expressing his own manner on his Facebook page. That's why I'm now drawing the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to a request for violations of environmental standards, a mass removal of trees in Dniper. In addition, this is the very issue that has already been reported in the Dniprov district prosecutor’s office for the discovery of criminal conduct. And I ask the Attorney General, Irina Valentinovna, to take control of the urgent matter. And finally. Dnipro is not only the largest river in Ukraine, it is also a city with an extremely large potential that can take first place. Sadly, however, this is unrealistic with the current local authority that declares tickets to space, although perhaps there is a place for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Responsibility for Crime committed by the Criminal Society (Re-reading) (registration No. 2513) The chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me who will insist on law enforcement? Windshield, Dirdin. Who else? Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're on every turn, or maybe I'll give it to you there.? Every single one. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, do you have every right? One minute. Please turn on Dirdin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u115	Good afternoon! Colleagues, I wanted to be number 25. I urged her to be considered in the Supreme Council. However, a normal dialogue with the head of the committee, with Mr. Monastirski, and his conviction that certain moments are positive in those work on the second reading, was decided not to insist, but to take into account that the normal work of the committee head with the deputies led me not to insist on that. And I want to call on other fellow MPs who still have doubts about voting, supporting or not supporting the bill, to support it in this reading and to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u116	Amendment 14, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This amendment applies in principle to the whole bill. First, as scientific expertise rightly points out, the Criminal Code cannot contain structures that have no legal definition. I would like to take this opportunity to address the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Mr. Habakkuk in particular. It's the law, not the criminal novel. Ukrainian legislation cannot operate with criminal jargon, even if it is operated by the legislation of Georgia and the Russianputinian. Ukraine is still a European state. And there should be no "thieves in the law" and no other terminology from the gangster "understand" in our texts of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u118	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 14 of the Windmill. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:20.]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next line is 15, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u119	This is rereading the second reading, but it has not even helped to stop the abuse of the text of the Criminal Code. Once again, you can't replace legal terminology with some kind of gangster "female," which unfortunately is present in this bill. Perhaps for today’s authorities, which is becoming increasingly active in banditry and has brought back to power the methods of Yanukovich’s day, such a language and a closer one, but this is not the reason to push such a language into Ukrainian legislation. Please support this amendment and do not allow it in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u120	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 15 of the Veterans. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:15.]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next line, Vetatrovich, 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u121	The second reading committee removed the changes to the 28th article of the Criminal Code, but the problem was not removed but transferred to other articles. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, what are the "faults in the law" that can be in Ukrainian legislation? There's no word for "wort" in Ukrainian, that's the first. Secondly, the Criminal Code is not a collection of criminal "female" but a law of the European state. And the main thing in this law is the greatest danger. Under the smoke curtain of the fight against organized crime, this project actually proposes to persecute people who have committed no crime. Anyone who reads this carefully can understand that the bill is actually designed to turn it into a tool of repression against citizens. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u122	I'm betting on the vote number 21 Wind. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:25]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 22 Laws, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u123	Deliberately confused and poorly formulated provisions of this law should not be transferred from one article to another, as happened between readings, but deleted. Even now the police are setting up criminal groups to hold volunteers, veterans, opponents of crimes that have nothing to do with those people. For more than six months, there are people behind bars whose political leadership has simply declared guilty of the murder of journalist Sheremet. Do you have any idea what would happen if people could be judged for being a member of a criminal community whose definition is essentially very vague in this law? As a result, this cannot be the case in the rule of law, so I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u124	I'm betting on the vote of 22 Vetrović. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:28]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 70, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u125	Today’s edition of article 255 has a clear and logical pattern of crime: If people create a criminal organization or arrange criminal associations to plan crime and coordinate action among themselves, they have criminal responsibility. The new 255 article will allow people to be imprisoned for 10, 12, 15 years for just so - called participation in the criminal community and criminal influence, even if they have not committed or planned any real crime. Knowing the imagination of investigators and courts in Ukraine, virtually any Ukrainian citizen can be sentenced to 10 to 15 years, that's more than they give for killing in Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs, I ask you to support this amendment and not allow such an aberration in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u126	I'm betting on a vote of 70 Váterović. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:36]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 71 Rights, Viatrowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u127	As a historian, I know what a communist totalitarian regime is, I know a Stalinese system, and unfortunately, I see that this bill is going to be pushed away by Stalin times. Such punishments as 10-15 years in prison for so vague a crime, and in general the deliberate formulation of the composition of the crime exists only in dictatorial police states. Is that the kind of Ukraine Zelensky sees today? This is the kind of Ukraine he's building today? We don't want to be in a state like this. For this reason, I ask you to uphold this right and not allow it in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u128	I'm betting on a vote of 71 Vetrović. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:28]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Give me 2 minutes, please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u129	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable chairman of the committee, the ministers, the representatives of the National Police, in fact, the draft for the second reading became more perfect. But there are still the wrongs that my colleague was talking about, speaking before my speech, that we're still introducing understanding, or the notion of "the thief in the law." There is also the experience of European nations fighting those who organize criminal activities that are so - called mafia groups. The only way we're going is through Georgia and our northern neighbor, and we're putting a task for the law enforcement agencies to fight organized crime. I was correct about the deviation of these minds that I was talking about. But taking advantage of the opportunity that there is an IMF leadership present, I have a question. If the adoption of this bill strengthens and allows the elimination of those criminal groups that are being led today by those people who have called themselves that or crowned them, and they have come to Ukraine from other countries, then this bill can be adopted in a second reading. And then the leadership of the law enforcement agencies assumes responsibility for an effective fight against crime. Otherwise, it will be legal nihilism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are three other papers by Vátrovitch. Then we go to the vote. I asked the question who would insist on editing. You were on the phone, Alexander Yuriyevna. Which ones do you insist on? We've gone straight. Now what's our next one? After 124, your turn. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, we can pick up the transcript and listen. It's just that at 12:30 there weren't any national deputies here. Vetatrovich, 124. Next, if you have yours, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u131	I'm sorry, 106 revisions. 106 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u132	It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u133	It's partially accounted for, but what did we get?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u134	106 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u135	So think about what's written in this bill right now. "A person who is in the status of a subject of increased criminal influence, including in the status of 'war in the law', should be understood as a person who, through authority, other personal qualities or capabilities, exerts a criminal influence and coordinates the criminal activity of other persons who have a criminal influence.".. My amendment calls for responsibility for the creation or management of a criminal community, as well as participation in crimes, that is, for actual criminal acts, not for fiction. And that's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. And I'd like the committee head to comment on, in part, my previous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u136	106 committee privileges are included in part. The author insists on taking full account. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:51]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u137	It was in these regulations and in the position of the committee that we were moving away from the concept of recognition of the status of "wort in law" that came under criminal responsibility, which, according to our belief, is a violation of the principles of criminal law. The footnote that you quoted clearly states that criminal coordination must be shown in order to be responsible for these articles. So the crime in this plan is pre-emptive, we need to prove a set of signs that are before we violate 255. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Next issue, Vejatrović, 124. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u139	107.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u140	107 too?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u141	107.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u142	107th was partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u143	Partially counted, I don't think. In response to Mr. Monastery’s reply, he spoke of a criminal influence. So what is the criminal influence in this bill? I quote: "It is any action of a person who, through authority, other personal qualities or capabilities, promotes, motivates, coordinates or otherwise influences criminal activity." Colleagues, with such standards, the investigating D.B.I., the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of each of us may be held responsible for fictitious crimes. Please don't support this norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u144	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u145	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u146	I'm betting on a vote of 107 Vetrović. The committee is partially counted, and the author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:49]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Is it 124 again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u147	No, no, 124 went by. 148th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u148	148th? 148 Vátroviča. That's the last thing you do, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u149	The committee decided not to touch the first part of article 256 of the Codex, and it was the right thing to do. After the committee's work, this terrible bill of President Zelensky acquired at least some kind of legal act, but it is still not allowed to vote for it, because it will only lead to political repression, increase corruption in the judicial legal system, especially under the current regime, when authorities called to defend the law and the law are storming the Goncara Museum, storming the Long Centre, grabbing children's doctors, volunteers, poets to banish them for playing for crimes they didn't commit. That is why I do not insist on this, but I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u150	Thank you. We've got five rights left. Stealth. And then we go to the vote. Right? 80. I'm sorry, 149th, Windman, more. After that, Ustinanova. And let's move on. 149th, Viatrowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u151	My amendment was rejected because the committee in general refused the President's idea of interfering with part one of article 256, and that's very good. But the question is, why does the President of Ukraine allow himself to constantly submit to Parliament very low quality and dangerous bills that we are considering here, we are wasting our time on them? Projects that multiply the will, injustice, such as the one that can transform, provide additional instruments of political repression against political opposition. I urge my colleagues not to engage in false covers about the alleged fight against criminals, and I urge in no way to support this bill, which is very dangerous for democracy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Are you insisting on this? I can't see. You insist. I'll put 149 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:03]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Arseny Mikhailovich Pusharenko, please do not see your colleague. You insist. Is that it? Your changes are over? Do you have your papers? 84th. We voted, sorry. 84th Amendment, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing the entire room: you are now voting for a super dangerous bill, which you are trying to sell as a bill on "wrecks in the law." I'm sorry, we need to vote for a bill on thieves in pursuit, not "wolfs in the law." Because right now under this bill, you're not expanding the mandate of the National Police, and you're giving them now without proof of a person's guilt to bring them to criminal responsibility. In the first version of this law, there was only the word "faults in the law." In the second reading, there were some legal issues that any citizen of Ukraine was subject to. My ruling 84 made it clear that there was a need to make it clear that this person should hold a high position in the criminal hierarchy. That's what the law says. Unfortunately, they didn't want to accept this amendment because they wanted it not only to be a criminal hierarchy, but that any person in Ukraine could be tied up under it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u154	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 84 Ustinovov's vote. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:58]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 85 Ustinov's revision. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u155	My colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill has changed very significantly to the second reading. If the first option was purely about "wrongs in the law" and we were trying to offer options for how to write this so that ordinary citizens wouldn't get involved in it, then the second reading came up with a standard like the subject of increased criminal influence. I will tell you that if you give someone an assignment and then this person suddenly commits a crime, you will be the subject of increased criminal influence, and your crime will not need to be proved, but you will be able to be put up for it. So I'm asking you not to support this bill, it's dangerous. We need to vote now for Arsen Awakov's resignation and the head of the National Police, not to give them powers that can come easily to any business and to any person in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u156	Thank you. I'll bet you 85 Ustinov's vote. The committee is partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:22]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 86 Edit Ustinov. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u157	I'm sorry, can you give me two minutes, just I'll take all the turns -- and that'll be faster?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u158	How much? Two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u159	Yeah, I've got four tickets, give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u160	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm just going to read what we've been proposing to both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the committee to figure out what "watt in the law" is. It is a person who has a high position in the criminal hierarchy, including in the status of "wore in the law", through financial assets, his own authority or personal characteristics, subordinates members of an organized group or criminal organization, or divides roles or functions between members of an organized group or criminal organization, gives orders, orders, etc. I'll tell you how it was adopted in the end. There's no such thing. All that's needed is the status or the code of law or the subject of increased criminal influence. Once again, you have to hear that the individual status of the "disposal of increased criminal influence" is being introduced into the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is now going to be the same thing as the "wrong in the law" that any person in Ukraine falls under. You may not know when you and someone made a joke that this person would then go and commit a crime, and you would be responsible. Not many people will be able to listen because suddenly the person they're talking to has committed a crime, and you didn't even know about it, you're just. This is your neighbor you were talking to, and the joke was that you liked another neighbor's car. If someone steals that car then they can hang it on you. And if you don't hang, at least listen to you, or, somehow, they say, "come and heal" when they walk and beat money off of you. Once again, we need to adopt the law, not the law, but the law, about thieves in pursuit. Because it greatly expands the authority of the police, who now rapes people in the precincts, kills children. And now you're giving them additional tools to do what they're doing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u162	Thank you. The position of the committee, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u163	Colleagues, I ask you to separate political manipulations from the content of the law you are offered. It's about a clear definition of what is "a subject of increased criminal influence," including "watt in the law." The position from which we started, this room, and, yes, indeed the committee and all of us together have made great efforts and spent many hours of discussions to bring this to a level when: first, it will not be held accountable until criminal influence is brought to light. For example, the distribution of influence between the areas of motorists that are distributed, and only then will it be possible to bring responsibility to the person who coordinates criminal activity, rather than just generally call any person a "wrong in the law" and attract criminal responsibility. Second reading again, colleagues. We've really given up a lot of things in order to preserve the very essence, and the goal is to make the word "faults in the law" disappear from the territory of Ukraine. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, as the national deputies gather, I will give the floor to the head of the National Police, Igor Klimenko, Igor Volodymyrovich Klimenko. Two minutes. And after that request from Nazpol to put on a short roll for one and a half minutes while the colleagues are meeting. Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! The honourable head of the committee! Dear National Deputies! "The Thief in the Law" is a concept closely identified by organized crime. They're all criminals. The fight against this category has never been easy, because the special feature of the status of "wreath in the law" is that these people themselves do not commit active criminal acts. Every thief creates a whole pyramid of sidekicks. Only by our modestest count are several thousand in Ukraine. Their bread is for murder, extortion, illegal theft of elite transport, torture, and a series of serious and particularly serious crimes. Remember, "lookers," "positions," criminal authorities acting on behalf of thieves, commit these crimes for the sole purpose of profiting and filling the community. And "community" controls "watt in the law." There is an informal distribution of spheres of influence between these and these individuals, both by territorial principle and by illegal activities. And the situation in Barbara on May 29th was confirmed when two criminal groups divided the market. Legislation in most countries has long been outlawed beyond legal existence. We may have them to find shelter. The concept of "caught," the notion of "criminal influence" would be outlawed. For the time being, what the law enforcement system can do with the "waves in the law" is to drill outside our country. They enter our country in dozens, and we meet them because our legislation is very loyal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u166	Thank you. We don't add time, dear colleagues. I'm sorry. Video, please. [[Video recording broadcast]] Thank you. Let's go to the vote. () Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of what? There's no motive, out of procedure. I'm out of procedure. Heratchenko is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, we've seen a lot of things in the session room, but for the first time, the session hall is listening to the voices of criminal authorities. Why? To accept or not accept a certain bill. In order for the bill to be passed into the session hall, the authors have to prove the value of this law, not to involve criminal authorities. And we are really calling on the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to abide by the Rules and not turn it into a cheap show. I don't think the vote for this law has been added.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I will not comment. However, this hall saw that it would somehow survive this roller coaster. Ustinova is procedure. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u169	You know, as members of the law enforcement committee, maybe two or three months ago, my colleagues won't let me lie, they promised us to show us a scary video of how they bribe members of the Supreme Council not to vote in favour of this bill. I understand that this is all the police have helped to prove that one of the deputies is being bribed. Besides, there went the order articles that Ustinov was sponsored by some "wrong in the law," I didn't see any more. Once again, colleagues, this is a very dangerous bill. I ask you not to vote for him. He gives extraordinary powers to the National Police, who rapes, kills people. First, we need to reform the National Police, then we need to adopt a law on "wrecks in the law." And it has to be solely about "wolfs in the law," not about other people with increased criminal influences that they'll use to make extra money and to "wear" everyone in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u170	It's not a procedure. Alexander Yuryivna, let us also follow the Rules. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich, of the procedure. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u171	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, MPs, don't worry, I think there's not much in the law room here, and it's not as scary as in the last summons and the previous summonsses exactly. So let's vote, and in the future let's make sure they're not here. And those who talk about it, look, dear Ukrainians, who defend all of our "authorities," "wrong in the law," and see what political parties they finance, who are now shouting that it's a bad bill. All over the world, it's been implemented, and we'll do it. We're breaking this system of disgrace that's governed by "authorities" of all, "take care of the law" by all politicians, all law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u172	Alexander Anatolyevich, let's do the same. All right, let's get to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability committed by the criminal community (registration No. 2513). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:54]] For 236 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. One minute, announcing. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolaiovich, into the "Trust". Next question of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of electoral legislation (registration number 3485 and 3485-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:06:57]] For 233 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alini Leonidivni. Give me four minutes, because it's both from the authors and from the committee right away. 4, 2, and 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u173	Honorary Presidium, National MPs, honourable voters, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of electoral legislation (registration number 3485). Colleagues, the adoption of the Ukrainian Electoral Code in December last year became a major step forward on the road to establishing and deepening democratic changes in Ukraine. However, the adopted document has a number of positions that are contradictory and complicate the electoral process for all its subjects. So the copyright team is proposing changes that are designed to remove a series of discussion points and to make a technical legal review. This will simplify the electoral process, harmonize the Ukrainian Electoral Code and protect the electoral rights of citizens. I must point out that the drafting of this bill took into account not only the thoughts of the national deputies of our "Serve of the People" faction, but also the representatives of other factions. And this bill also reflects a common position and an expert and a public environment, although of course we understand that there are some separate positions that need to be worked out. In short, given the time limit for the performance, I'm going to describe what these changes are. We propose to make changes to all four books of the Codex, but since the greatest interest we have today is the holding of the local elections, I will pause a little bit further to change to the book of the Fourth, which concerns the holding of local elections. What we're offering. Set the moment when the type of electoral system is defined to be followed by local elections to establish the standard of its permanence. We also organize the schedules for the appointment of various types of local elections. We are improving the regulation of the territorial organization of local elections. We eliminate disagreements in the formation of the composition of the territorial electoral commissions, and the main thing we do is we expand the commission formation periods by bringing them out of the electoral process. We also simplify the requirements for documents submitted to electoral committees to obtain the status of the subject in the electoral process. We specify specific positions regarding the promotion and registration of candidates at local elections. Legal determination has been given to the issue of the simultaneous election of candidates at the appropriate local elections. The mechanism of refusal to register candidates has been improved. We also improve the order of production and distribution of ballot papers, the order of transportation of election documents, as well as the gaps and disagreements in the voter votes. Also to harmonize legislation and strengthen the institutional capacity of the Central Electoral Commission, we propose to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission and the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters. I want to isolate the changes that we're proposing as a separate block -- changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The relevant block was worked together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, an expert public environment. So this is such an important step forward, I'm asking you to take that into account. I would also like to point out that the drafting of this bill took into account international electoral standards and national experience. The proposals we make are designed to prejudice the very practical problems of organizing and holding the elections that have arisen in the past during such elections. So, colleagues, please support in the first reading. If necessary, of course, we understand that until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u174	Thank you. The speech is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u175	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, what do you associate with local authorities? It's very often associated with a land ravine. Very often it is associated with illegal construction, with human resources decisions for money. This autumn, October 25, Ukraine will be given a chance to have a new local self - government. Ukraine will be given a chance to have a new local government. And now we have the opportunity not only to give the Ukrainians a chance to choose, but to give the Ukrainians a chance to choose from among whom. We can give community leaders who have confidence in their local councils a chance to come and finally change the lives of their communities. But what is the chance of a new local self - government? These are really open lists. And the Voice faction and I stand for reducing the voting barrier from 25 percent to 5 percent, because only then will the actual leaders of the community be able to get support and get to the front of the list, not the way the party will define it. What is the chance of a new local government? It's a reduction in election fees. It's an opportunity not only for people with "big money bags" to get into local self-governance, but also for those leaders who have confidence, but who don't have some colossal incomprehensible incomprehensible incomprehensible incomprehensible incomprehensible incomprehensibility. And of course, the third is the opportunity to run for self-regulatory candidates. It is not a duty to go and seek a party, to make a commitment to the parties. And from the Voice faction, we propose to leave the threshold of 90,000 inhabitants of the population. And it's an opportunity to go self-reliance, not just through parties. We from the Voice faction have proposed this bill to give leaders of local self-government, not just parties, a chance to change power. Thank you. Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u176	Thank you. Sign up for factions: two for, two against. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u177	Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u178	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u179	Thank you very much. Every time we adopt new electoral laws, we talk very proudly about how new, interesting, perfect they are. And then there's a little bit of time -- and we have to have huge bills to improve these laws. And this time, unfortunately, did not become an exception. Dear colleagues, I agree that a number of the procedures that are proposed are much better. And those proposals that have been made, including the working group, and our proposals, are largely taken into account. But there are a number of things that are unaccounted for and that need to be fundamentally resolved. For one thing, the adoption of this bill will lead to a significant increase in electoral campaign. And remember, when we made the changes to the budget, we still took a billion out of the election. And now it's not like we have to think about how to minimize the wager. And we need to propose a mechanism where the mortgage can be used for the organization of elections. And that's when everyone needs to settle down. And not to think of yourself, but of how to conduct the elections at all. We talked about the synchronization and timing of the election campaigns in the local and parliamentary elections. Now it's broken in time, and this non-synchronization is leading us to have 30-40 percent more electoral campaigns than the next one, even though the same procedures are going on. This needs to be corrected in the second reading. We agreed that factions as basic constitutional institutions of political life should be entitled to two representatives in the composition of TVC and DTC. Rather, it is proposed that a strange political entity sign a treaty with a group of parliaments. We need to move in the constitutional model and correct it immediately until the second reading. Unfortunately, a huge number of amendments have been made to the Criminal Code, which we want to punish voters, candidates, parties, all of them, but we have not foreseen anything against a pool of votes. There is no most important element that needs to be improved. We're talking about electronic services, we're talking about the possibility of actually implementing some model things, but this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Alexander Korneyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u182	Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, this is finally the same Electoral Codex, dreamy and sung. If you're serious, look, for people, it doesn't really matter what procedure there is, where the ballots go, who sets up, who doesn't set up, or prepares an interim protocol. It's all such a very narrow subject that only those who are in charge of the election — the board leaders, the Central Election Commission and so on. What's important to people? For the results of the elections, they will receive the new local authority in an honest manner. This codex answers that question. On October 25, there will be local elections, we repeat this once again, surely they will not be tolerated, and they will follow new rules that will allow people to delegate new representatives to the local authorities. On what account? By increasing access through a party system that is quite developed in Ukraine, and even in this room there are more than 10 political parties made up of seven factions and groups, and in Ukraine there are about 300 parties, and half of them can claim some active part of the process. Access to local authorities is increasing due to a reduction in the mortgage. We're proposing to cut the bet by about twice. This will allow more people to participate. And we're also introducing a few new procedures, innovative ones. This is a simultaneous promotion, not in the history of Ukraine, and the same candidate can be on the district council and, for example, on the OTG board. We are also introducing a completely new approach to the responsibility of bribery. It's very important, it's done along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all-U.S. public organizations, particularly the Resistance. It's a re-thinking of what bribery is. And for example, now the product set, for example, is now an alcoholic drink -- it's all a bribe to the electorate. And we will continue to fight for honest choices, as we do all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u184	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u185	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Puzan Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u186	Who, again? Puzanov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u187	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the previous speakers said that the bill applied and primarily regulated the question of holding the nearest local elections. This is not so, rather, this bill on the mandate of the Central Electoral Commission, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. According to article 92 of the Constitution, only the laws of Ukraine determine the organization and order of elections. The bill proposes that the Central Electoral Commission be given too wide a mandate, including powers in the Central Electoral Commission's designated cases not to implement the Ukrainian Electoral Code. Just think, the Central Election Commission will decide whether or not it will carry out certain positions of the Electoral Code. Next. The Central Election Commission gets a discretionary mandate, they're also too wide, these powers. It is the Central Election Commission who will decide whether or not to agree and make decisions in one way or another without complying with the principle of legal certainty, which must be respected in an important document such as the Electoral Code. The Central Election Commission is empowered to appoint the heads and secretaries of the lower-level electoral committees from among the persons who are members of the respective territorial offices of the Central Electoral Commission, that is, to replace those who have been delegated by political parties. We will not support this bill. We hope that, for the second reading, the corresponding shortcomings of this bill will be addressed, and our amendments that we will propose will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u188	Thank you, Alexander Hennadiovich. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u190	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u191	Dear Ukrainians, another explanation of why this Electoral Code does not give a chance to recharge the local authorities. There's a community leader, for example, who heads the OSBB, changes his neighborhood, his own street. He lives in a small town, a few tens of thousands of people. And he decided to go, change his town, not in public organization or in his OSB, but in the local council. What does he need to do? He needs to look for a party office, because so-called partisans are pushing community leaders to political offices and to political wishes accordingly. Next. He has to find the money somehow. Where do they seek money for local elections, and how do they do so? Of course, there is a commitment. And in the end, he doesn't stand a chance of moving on the electoral list from the pass to the pass. Then, if he's active, and here's what the party decided, what the party put you on the 15th, 30th or 50th, you're gonna stay on the high electoral barrier. These changes in the electoral barrier from 25 percent to 5 percent, this change in the electoral bond so that community leaders don't have to make commitments by raising money just for the bailout, I'll keep quiet about the information campaign, about my campaign, and, of course, pushing from the stick to the political parties is not the kind of thing that will give us the opportunity to reboot local self-government and give the leaders of local communities a chance to change their villages, villages and towns after this fall's election. That's why we've registered an alternative bill with the Voice faction, and that's why we're going to be looking at it today: a chance for communities, not parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u192	Thank you. Now there's two more speeches on the ground, after that. Three speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we are the Marjorie MPs who are members of the "Trust" MP group, first of all, we are concerned that on October 25, the local elections will be transparent and for every citizen of every newly united territorial community to be able to run and be chosen. That's what we hear every time we go to the districts, and that's what we bring here in the hall. Yes, the bill provides opportunities for everyone to travel and be chosen. But we also insist on a 9-fold reduction in the election bond and to the law by number. Bill 2769 also entered the hall. Today we will support this bill and support the election pledge and its reduction in order for new people, experienced people to have the opportunity to come to power without money in places, to transform our communities to have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u194	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u195	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the question of amending the Electoral Code has already been overlooked in order to be on the spot and after six months of elections, people would even understand what rules they would follow. From all over Ukraine, active MPs, those planning to go to local authorities, local authorities, are calling: What rules will we choose? That's why the bill has to be adopted. There are positive changes that are already included in it. But at the same time, this bill requires a serious revision to the second reading that "Paternity" will submit. In particular, we need to secure the first number in the party lists, even though one is guaranteed so that the list leaders can understand exactly what they will be doing throughout the territory by election. We must not force all candidates in the villages to fill out declarations, let them fill in when they become deputies. This must be included. And, Your Honor, let's not come to the party, because I hear that the parties are no longer needed in the local elections. The parties are politically responsible throughout the country, so the parties must be represented in local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u196	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u197	Colleagues, there is no limit to improving the electoral system. But I think that the thesis that we have to take part in society, and so we need to increase the responsibility of political parties for making decisions, both at the level of the state and at the level of the community, we need to do so. And the MP's Group for the Future supports the idea of reducing society's participation to 15,000 voters. What's more, we want to go down to the village communities, we're going to make an appropriate amendment. And we're just going to make an amendment to make that district councils, and we're going to do the administrative reform phase, and we're going to be going to party lists. Let us not be afraid of responsibility. It's a shame that President Zelensky has listened to rumors about two thirds and he doesn't support the idea of two thirds, because I think we're going to see a lot of urban parties in future local councils, and partly separatist parties. But that's what we're going to be fighting with. We're voting in the first "yes."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of electoral legislation (registration number 3485). Prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:28:11]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at ensuring the proper social protection of children, such as children with disabilities, orphans, children deprived of parental care, and persons with disabilities. It is necessary to include this issue in the agenda. This requires 226 votes of Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:29:07]] For 332 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:29:29]] For 326 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:29:49]] For 272 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u199	Your Honor, Mr. Speaker, the esteemed profiling committee, we thank you very much for having the opportunity to consider this decision today. And we hope very much that we will accept it. Because in this decree, we are primarily talking about protecting children. Soon. A few days ago we celebrated Child Protection Day, we saw a lot of beautiful words, photos, but in fact today we need not talk, but we need to act, we need to make responsible decisions. And that's why today we're proposing to take a decision and go to the government so that we can start dealing with child protection at the state level. Unfortunately, in our seventh year, social standards are not increasing in extremes, pay is not being indexed, nothing is being done to support our social services, which, in the best possible protection of children today, are being cut down all the time. Most importantly, today we have a program of reforming internal institutions, and it might end up with no child protection or support for the most vulnerable. So first of all, we ask that we make a decision about the return of more than 42,000 children from boarding schools, the period of quarantine when they were returned home and not set up a social escort, so that this is an urgent matter. And here we support the appeal of UNICEF. We also ask the government to provide reliable, appropriate social support for children and children of vulnerable families. We also call for the provision of a public procurement organization today to train specialists and many other proposals that have entered into this regulation. Please support, unite, and protect the children of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u200	Ryabusi Tetjani Vasilovni, head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, is given the word for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy reviewed the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3414) at its meeting on June 3, the current year. As has already been said, the draft decree proposes to approve a set of measures to be taken by the government to ensure and protect the rights and interests of children raised in institutions of institutional care and child rearing, as well as children with disabilities, orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons with disabilities. The committee supported the main ideas of the draft Decree 3414 and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and, in general, taking into account such amendments to its text, as noted in the Committee’s conclusion. In part one in paragraph one, replace the first with the word "recommendation." In paragraph three, after the words "social protection of the population," add the words "including child services." In paragraph 4 after the words "care or care has been set up" add the words "for a period of possible quarantine due to coronary disease (COVID-19), or other extraordinary situations, as well as for." Paragraph five is deleted. In paragraph 2.1, part two, in paragraph two, replace "care and upbringing of children in conditions close to the family" with "social care and upbringing of children in conditions close to the family." And the words "received families, foster homes" are excluded. In paragraph 3 of the third paragraph, the word "returned" should be replaced by the word "persisting." Paragraph five is deleted. In part three, delete the fourth paragraph. Paragraph 5 states in the following edition: "to amend the Rules on the Accounting of Citizens requiring improvement of living conditions and to provide them with living quarters in the Ukrainian RSR, approved by the Ukrainian RSR Council of Ministers and the Ukrainian Republican Council of Professional Associations of December 11, 1984, 470, in the section on the exclusion of the rules on removal from the housing of orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons deprived of parental care when they reach them."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u203	Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u204	Who? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u205	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u206	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u207	Dear Head, dear companion! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. And once again, I'm bringing you back to the essence of the document that's being proposed. This is a call to the Cabinet of Ministers for measures aimed at ensuring the proper social protection of children, such as foster parents, children with disabilities, orphans, children deprived of parental care. The main reason for this initiative is the pandemic, quarantine, and homecoming. But where, to which house are 40,000 defenseless, vulnerable, including those of our underage citizens? So, of course, there is an urgent need to ensure proper social support for these children; to provide social protection workers accompanied by these children, with means of protection, to significantly increase the level of State support for this category and a number of other important measures. But Fatherland is offering to look deeper into this problem. The reform of the educational field is well under way. A number of its directions meet the requirements of Euro-integration, and we support that. But the individual positions of reform, including the retraining of institutions where they are raised, treated, trained, and lived by socially vulnerable children, require completely different approaches, especially those of humanity. This is provided for in a corresponding bill that initiates "The Fatherland," which we demand immediately to put in order of the day and to support the development of this initiative. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u208	The word is given to the national MP, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u209	Please give it to Paulie Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u210	Pauline, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". You know, we've got some new genre going out today with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We make an urgent appeal to him on matters that have not been dealt with by the executive branch. We've heard that Vladimir Zelensky has no time for strategic questions. We see that his government has no time to think about it, time to make the right decisions, and needed the intervention of the Ukrainian Parliament in order to do what was necessary. We already see the effects of such a policy, when only about 300,000 tests have been done throughout quarantine, we see the situation of providing the most needed doctors, and we see that some mice eat the national reserve. And, you know, with this approach, we're soon going to have no time or money left, because they're already reporting that almost half of the fund that's been allocated to the fight against the coronary disease, it doesn't exist anymore, it's spent somewhere. So, of course, we're going to support this determination, the right things are written there, but once again we're going to point out that the government needs to be changed more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u212	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u213	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, first of all from the author's team, I would like to thank every national committee member, all the factions who have made their proposals and made the text more clear and more realistic. Secondly, this decision would not have occurred if the government had adopted all those decisions in a timely manner and had taken the measures provided for in this decision. On June 1st, the government allegedly held a ceremony dedicated to children and adopted some 30 decisions, but the analysis of these decisions shows that the measures provided for in the decrees or in the draft laws are either unrealistic or impossible to implement, because the actual execution of those services and bodies that are supposed to take care of and protect children today are being eliminated. One of such irresponsible government decisions a few months ago resulted in the return of 42,000 children to their homes, from whom they were removed in connection with the direct threat to their lives. Of these 42,000, it is estimated that 15,000 children have been found and are still in dangerous conditions. 610 children have already been removed, and the immediate danger of life is imminent. They were removed, and, well, on time by the Children’s Service, appropriate social workers were removed. And from this rostrum, I want to thank every member of the Service for their children's affairs, social services centers, and the people in the district centers who are currently working under the coronavirus are doing their job. Their merit is no less than that of the medics, but we have forgotten about them. Therefore, the decree obliges them to provide protection, personal protection. Once again, I urge the Supreme Council to unite and force the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u214	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, our group, the Future Party will support this decision. Because, in fact, the government has long had to change its approach to reforming the system of boarding schools. Both the epidemic and the pandemic have made clear the problems that have arisen with such reform. We found that just 42,000 children were returned to their homes for quarantine. That's right, we have a policy of deinstitutionalization when children have to go back to their families. But reality is quite different. You can't just destroy a system of interns to send children home who can't eat properly, live normally. And their families, who are in difficult circumstances in life, will not be able to support them because they are incapable. Thus, under the pandemic, children’s homes, families, children’s homes, foster families, caregivers need our full support and support of the government. I just wanted to say one more time. Sanitary boarding schools are also part of this reform. And so far, the General Education Act has been passed, that since September 1st they have to become flight attendants. Again, what can you do about your sick children? What should we do with the staff? And what about September 1st for the people and these children? What's going to happen to the medical base? Such reforms are destructive. And we certainly need to be united. In particular, I'm talking to the majors, who have these 66 sanatorium boarding schools, to support and not allow for a shortcut. All this talk about being a flight attendant is that they're just trying to trick us. Because it's just going to be from the 10th to the 11th grade, and all the rest of the classes are going to have to be closed. What are we saving? Who are we saving? Therefore, the creation of such licenses will also need to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Kulinich's speech is motivated. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u217	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will support this draft decision, because we should definitely review our attitude and approach to providing children in such institutions, special international institutions. So, literally yesterday, we voted on a very important bill in this direction -- 3414. And this regulation, which we are today, I think we are going to vote on, refers to the level of provision for all the children we need, the workers who work there. They're wages. This is a completely different approach, which should be for children in a normal, civilized European country. So let's support this decision. And we'll provide our children with everything we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u218	Thank you. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote. Ready? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Everybody ready? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on the Application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at ensuring the proper social protection of children-in-law institutions, including children with disabilities, orphans, children deprived of parental care, and persons of their number. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:45:31]] For 338 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 3228). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:46:07]] For 247 Decision taken. The report is given to a member of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Wheeler Annie Sergiyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u219	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Ukraine's customs tariff is a list of import duty rates that are managed by goods imported into Ukraine's customs territory. The customs tariff is based on the product nomenclature of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity, whose designations and digital codes are harmonized with the harmonised system of description and coding of goods. Designed by the World Customs Organization, the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System is used in 207 countries around the world for the purpose of regrading goods. Every five years, the Harmonized System is reviewed as the volume and structure of trade in certain goods change. In line with the International Convention of a Harmonized System of Description and Coding of Goods of the World Customs Organization, all participating countries, including Ukraine, are obliged to implement new changes in national commodity nomenclatures in sync with the validity of the new sixth edition of the Harmonized System of January 1, 2017. For some reason, Ukraine was unable to ensure the timely implementation of a new version of the product classification in the time series. And Ukraine's current Customs tariff is based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System in 2012, while most countries in the world are using a new edition. And it is obvious that there are a number of complications associated with, among other things, differences in Ukrainian commodity codes and trading partner countries during customs clearance, the inability to compile customs statistics, and so forth. The idea of business regarding the bill was also clear. The adoption of the bill is primarily necessary for the creation of a positive image of Ukraine and for the quality functioning of customs duties. The committee at its meeting supported the adoption as a basis for the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two-for-two-against from the MP factions and groups. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u221	Honorable Presidium, dear colleagues, we must be well aware of what the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System is. In fact, it is a universal, recognized tool in the world for the formation of unified, single approaches for the customs services of the member states of the World Customs Organization for the identification of goods, which is an object of international trade, which is a key element for the exchange of information on goods, for the formation of a valid customs value, statistics and so on. But we now have over 200 countries using the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. For the first time in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act was passed in 2001. Since then, the implementation of the Harmonized System in Ukraine has been undergoing some sort of disruption and effort. It should be noted that the one to be included in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff since 2007 has actually become effective in Ukraine since 2011, and the one based on the Harmonized System 2012 has only worked since 1 January 2014. But on top of that, in 2007, in 2010, and in 2013, the government of Azarov, in 2017, the government of Groysman, and even in 2019, the government of Goncharuk, introduced these projects for the adoption of the Customs Tariff in an updated edition. And just for the first time, in 2020, in the last 20 years, the government of Smigal has failed to submit these changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, which I think has been registered in its own professional inadequacy, and we are forced to consider a parliamentary bill. In view of the very short period of time, I would just like to ask that this law be adopted today really on the basis and in general in order to prevent 10,000 amendments from being made to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u222	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we're looking at a bill that's been waiting for several years in the last summons. And by the way, thank you to Nina Petrovni Jujanini, who has done a lot to make him. And finally, we accept this call and continue to move towards Euro-integration, which is what we talked about today during our human resources assignment. What's this bill about? The bill simply brings our Customs Tariff to the requirements that it needs to work better, our customs, including in the framework of European integration. This is, of course, one part of what they call "industry carbage," "business carbose-2," and the other part that improves our interaction: the interaction of Ukrainian business with other countries' businesses. I am very grateful to my colleagues, and to Annie the Wheeler, and to Mr. Kowalczuk, for their quick work on this bill. And, you know, our committee, I think, has worked so fruitfully in the many months that we've had, on this document, that we're willing to support this bill not only on a basis, but in general, respecting the professional approach of the subcommittee and the entire committee to this bill. And I urge all of you, regardless of the faction, to also support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u224	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Despite our consideration of the committee, I was one of those members of the committee who supported the vote on the basis and in general. During a more detailed study of the many pages accompanying this bill, by tariff and expansion, we found one unpleasant thing. The explanatory note says that customs tariffs do not change, but codification changes. It needs to be changed because these are our commitments, and the whole world is moving forward. But a number of products, because of expanding codes, are found in other categories, where there are many others. in some positions, the duty changes by six times. This is true of many, not just complicated things, but very simple things. For example, regular fish, which is today one tax rate, when we expand it, it's going to get into another. And the ordinary Ukrainian will pay more for the entire import position. That's why "Paternity" will vote in the first reading, but we have serious concerns about voting in general. We're here to shorten these terms, but we have to go back and work together, because it's going to hit the average Ukrainians first, in many places where customs are going to grow out of de facto. Thank you. This is our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u226	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u227	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u228	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u229	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, our faction is not against convergence, the approximation of European and domestic legislation, including customs policy. However, we are concerned about the fact that the bill does not provide for a change in import duty rates for goods. Only classification, description, trade volumes, units of measurement and calculation change. I'll remind you what the little moment is, and it's causing great problems. Because, for example, when we're talking about involving high-tech equipment, I think there's no doubt that the country needs a comprehensive modernization. This requires additional incentives. And that's why we've already been in domestic practice by 2005, and in other countries, we know there's a positive experience in stimulating innovation, investment policy (well, more innovative) in order to just exempt goods from duty or high-tech equipment that's being imported into Ukraine for the purpose of a comprehensive modernization of the country. Another very important point is the anti-dumping duties on imports of individual product groups that are also not included here, and there is nothing in common. In conditions where we have an asymmetric and uneven environment of a free trade zone with the European Union, with other countries, we have to protect an internal producer, we have to protect the internal consumer market from products of external origin. And so from this point of view, in our view, we should simply change the classification and description, and we need to introduce complex documents that will necessarily solve those problems, the global problems that we have today. So from this point of view, we have determined to abstain in voting and we urge you to be more complex in solving these complex problems than just changing the names. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, are there still willing to speak? None. All the factions came out, didn't they? And please, the word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, there is a discussion that has already occurred on our committee about whether the tariff itself is changing. No, it's just naming, it doesn't affect the process. That's why it's very important for us to adopt this bill as a whole so that we don't interfere with our customs, our business. So there are some misunderstandings about this bill. I'm sure you can read another explanation in the media, but trust our committee, which is represented not only by a coalition, but also by other factions, including the Voice faction, that when we watched this bill, we made a joint decision to vote it both on the basis and in general. So right now, we're asking you to support that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, we have a technical question. I ask you to approach the leaders of the MP factions, the groups now in the rostrum. Keep your distance. We need to decide about voting for this bill. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. This bill, as our colleagues spoke, must be accepted as a whole. I'm putting it on the ground now, and then I'm putting it all together. Is there no objection? None. Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 3228). Please prepare for the vote. After that, I put it all together. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:57]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 3228). Please support and vote. [[14:06:26]] For 290 Thank you, Your Honor. For 290. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you all again. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure that State guarantees of local self-government are respected and that its economic foundations are protected (registration number 3118). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda. Please support and vote. We need 226 votes of support. [[14:07:08]] For 296 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[14:07:28]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:07:50]] For 271 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u233	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Ukrainians, your opinion is proposed in Bill 3118 on the protection of the economic foundations of local self-government. Imagine that there are hospitals, museums, or other utilities in your city and that there are many people who are paying for the PDF in your city’s budget. And that's the kind of money that goes towards developing social infrastructure: gardens and schools, transport, roads. And at one beautiful moment, the district council is re-registering these utilities somewhere else, and accordingly, all the taxes on the income of the individuals go beyond the development of your city, and this is a completely different place, even though the actual activities continue to be carried out in your city. During 2017 - 2019, 136 utilities were re-registered in Ukraine, and local budgets in general lost over 128 million dollars. The purpose of this bill is to prevent further developments and to prohibit district and district councils from re-registering such objects without the consent of local self-government authorities, in whose areas activities are directly carried out. The bill is supported by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, a professional committee, and a professional ministry. So I'm also asking you, honourable national MPs, to support this bill in the first reading, which will help to protect the local budgets and leave them with the VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u234	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Gurin Dmitry Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, good day. On 20 May, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure that the State guarantees of local self-government are respected and that its economic foundations are protected (registration No. 3118). Today, district councils change the place of registration of hospitals, libraries, sports schools, and other subordinated legal persons so that the tax on the income of the workers of such institutions does not go to the budget of the local authorities in which they are physically located, but to those local authorities whose head is godfather, brother or wedlock of the district council. Moreover, this re-registration takes place in the middle of the financial year, which balances local budgets and is essentially a form of political pressure. The authors suggest that the article of the Basic Law on Local Self - Administration be supplemented by a procedure to agree to such a change of registration with the local self - government body, in which there is in fact a utility, an agency or an organization. The bill was supported by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, which listed more than a hundred legal persons who do not pay VAT to their respective budgets at the location. A total of 128 million dollars a year. The Ukrainian Association of District and District Councils and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine have made a number of criticisms to the bill. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council noted that the first reading of the bill made it appropriate to reject the bill. However, as a result of the discussion, the Committee adopted a proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government to ensure that the State guarantees of local self-government and the protection of its economic foundations (registration number 3118) are respected on the basis of the first reading. My colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u236	Thank you. Please register by faction: two-for-two-again. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u237	Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u238	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u239	Good afternoon! As a representative of the community of Lvov, the Mayor of 115th District, I want to say that this bill will actually allow the PDFO to go where it should go. After all, they enjoy the benefits of the city — roads, schools, gardens. In the past year, Lviv lost 47 million dollars to similar registrations. While all of these workers and the Lviv Historical Museum, located in Market Square, and district hospitals live mainly in Lviv and enjoy the benefits of the city. This law allows for a more equitable approach to decisions that groups make when pressured by one or the other authorities is reregistered elsewhere. And this will contribute to a proper and fair distribution of taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u240	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u241	Please pass the word "Constankevic".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u242	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u243	The MP's Group for the Future, which is made up of major MPs, primarily represents the interests of local self-government. And we stand to the greatest extent possible on the need for local budgets to be filled and protected so that they are in place. Thus, the bill pursues such a goal. And we think that social needs, cultural, artistic needs can only be met locally if local budgets are filled. Therefore, we ask for the support of the bill because it pursues such a goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u244	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u245	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs! What is really the point in this bill? And it's about local self-government, where all the candidates in the deputies or today's deputies swore allegiance to each other during the election and after the election. But now that we're here in this session room and when it comes to money, we're all forgetting the real interests of the community. You know, this bill introduces such a strong right for enterprises, for institutions, for establishments, for joint property of territorial communities, because we all understand that even if the re-registration goes on, for one year the taxation of the territory and the gross costs are completely balanced by budgetary transfers and are completely balanced by the budgetary redistribution. What are we talking about? And this is about the funds that are actually collected from these district facilities. Think of it as a matter of today’s district administrations. One district hospital pays a person’s income tax of about 30 million dollars a month. Is there any quick help for this money? No, it's not. Is there a purchase of equipment? No, it's not. Are these doctors being paid for? No, it's not. The museum, is one exhibition renewed at the expense of such resources? And of course, power -- and it's not a one-headed decision, it's a decision of this council -- it re-registers where an additional resource can be obtained. And, dear friends, we need to think about how to get more resources. Because the mice will eat everything soon, the budget received 73 billion in May, less than in 2018 and 2019. And you need to think not about how to divide money, but you need to think about how to enrich quantity and how to add additional powers. Therefore, it is not possible to adopt this bill in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u246	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u247	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Very briefly, what this bill is about to be understood. It's really about guarantees, independence and opportunities for our country's local self-government. We're saying a lot that it's local self-government today that's holding the defense, most of the expenditure on fighting the so-called COVID, and the pandemic is spending today, not the state budget, but local self-government, and they're taking those taxes away from it. And in fact, this bill speaks of the impossibility of actually changing the place of registration of a utility, an institution, an organization that is reregistered on paper and transferred to another place, another village, physically in the first place where they continue to work and stay. It's actually a legal game that probably in a normal country would stop court practice, but we don't. Why is this happening, and why, for example, are museums in one place reregistered in another village and still there? Because it's a fight, first, for taxes, and second, it's a political struggle, when the District and District Councils actually tell the mayor or the community that: if you don't go to us for concessions, we're just going to knock down your budget in the middle of the year, because we're going to re-register the fairies and community organizations in other villages that are going to listen to us more, for example. Clearly, this must be stopped, and it is clear that such fuses should be. So "Paternity" will support this bill and support local self-government, which should plan its fiscal years normally. The Ukrainian City Association has now accounted for just the last year 136, think about businesses, institutions, organizations that continue to work in the same cities and are reregistered in other villages and villages, and taxes are already being paid there without any reason or reason. So please support this bill, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, now Kachura is motivated, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Alexander Anatolyovich Kachura
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u249	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Of course, it is necessary to support the bill because it is not about the location of utilities, it is about paying taxes to local budgets. After all, when we went to the polls, each of us promised that we would do everything we could to ensure that the local authorities would have a financial opportunity to build hospitals, kindergartens, and repair roads. And that's what the bill is about, but it's only a fraction of what utilities are about. The next bill should be a bill that foresees the inability to create legal persons, the registration of their whereabouts elsewhere, and not where they engage in economic activities. Because it may work enormously in a city or in a rural area, but it is registered in Kiev. And that's exactly the wrong approach, taxes have to be paid where they're making money, where they're making money, and they're creating added value. We therefore vote in favour of this bill and work on a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u250	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You've just been shut down by your colleagues, Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you haven't been seen. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich is a motive. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Once again, we're looking at this bill, and I'd like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies, so I looked at the tables: almost 90 percent of the deputies -- they don't have any voting papers at all. There are no comparative tables, there are no bills, there are no scientific and expert findings. So there's actually an inadvertent vote going on, and that's why we have these results. Take a look at the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority, which on the three pages gave a negative conclusion. Moreover, it clearly states that this law violates the Constitution of Ukraine. We do not have the same standard as giving consent to one local authority to another. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing at all? But somehow you respect the Constitution, but you made an oath when you said you would abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We will vote against this law. We're on our own from local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u252	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure that the State guarantees of local self-government are respected and that its economic foundations are protected (registration No. 3118). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:22:33]] For 295 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to extend the deadlines for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (registration number 3463). No discussion? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. There's going to be both a base and a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act of Ukraine to extend the deadlines for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science, registration number 34. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do a full procedure to make sure. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. I would like to place a motion on the vote to consider this issue in a brief fashion. We have two factions against the Voice and the European Solidarity. Oh, one faction. I'm sorry. [[14:23:44]] For 287 The word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, John Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u253	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! There's a bill for registration number 3463. This bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, particularly chapter XV of the Final and Transitional Positions chapter, and to continue the issuance of diplomas for candidates and doctors of science until 30 June 2021. The current standard of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act provides for this period until 31 December 2020. The main reasons behind this bill are the following. The introduction of the Ukrainian Law in 2017 of the limits for the issuance of diplomas for candidates and doctors of science has certainly intensified the scientific research work of our graduate students and PhD students. But most of them have already completed their research work today, and the results of this work have prepared dissertations to obtain the scientific degree of a candidate or a doctor of law. This allowed our postgraduate and doctorate students today to consult with specialized scientists for consideration of their dissertation for admission to official protection. But the spread of acute respiratory disease, COVID-19, interfered with this process, because on March 12, 2020, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine announced quarantine throughout Ukraine, and this certainly stopped the process of protecting the dissertation of a candidate and a doctor of science because our winners have no opportunity to submit. had no opportunity to apply on time for the acceptance of the dissertation before.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u254	Thank you, Ivan Romanovich. Please invite the co-reporter of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u255	Dear colleagues! In view of the establishment of quarantine in the country, specialized scientists and expert councils have been suspended for a long time, which has led to violations of legislatively established certification procedures, including the protection and acceptance of candidates and doctoral dissertations. All these necessary measures make it impossible to realize a person’s constitutional right to education, including the attainment of scientific degrees that cause deep concern in society. The bill is proposed by amending the Final and Transitional Regulations of Ukraine's Higher Education Act to extend the sentence of the candidate or doctor of science from 31 December 20th to 30 June 21st year, i.e. for six months. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the relevance of the bill, recommends that it be accepted as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole, so I ask everyone to support this decision by voting the bill on a basis and in general, taking into account the necessary technical and economic rights, legal ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, request to sign up: two in favour, two in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u257	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u258	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u259	Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u260	Thank you. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". It's a technical bill and it's worth supporting. But what I would like to say is, in education, it's very important that we keep what we've been able to change: both about honest entrance to colleges, and about the independence of universities and their autonomy, and about honesty in science and the fight against plagiarism. Therefore, the human resources decisions must be one that in no way undermines these achievements. We have something to protect, we have to stand on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u261	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u262	Please pass the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u263	The MP, the Party for the Future, of course, will support this bill, because it refers to a very important issue that directly governs both quarantine and the fight against coronavirus, but it concerns hundreds and probably thousands of scientists who are waiting to defend the dissertation. That's the first one. But, Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to another question. We have not yet appointed a minister of education and science. And this is a question that comes to mind in a society that has an acute discussion. Sadly, all the new and new candidates that appear in the discussions do not find as much support as they fear society. So I think that we, the national MPs, should be monolithic in terms of what the minister of education and science should be. It must be a person of progressive, nationalistic and governmental positions. It must be a person with authority, it must be a person with moral authority. Nor should those associated with Yanukovich’s activities or other former regimes be allowed to come. Therefore, national MPs, I appeal: Be careful to identify those who will lead the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u264	Thank you. It is given to the People's Deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u265	Give it to Ducky, please. Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u266	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u267	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'm sure you've heard the idea a lot. And we'd like to thank the profile committee for professionalism and understanding the depth of the problem. I mean, I don't know, I want to say that the training of science personnel and candidates and doctors of science has actually been stopped since March, and for three months, we've had our defenses stopped in specialized scientific councils. And in view of this, there is an extension of the term for six months, perhaps even the committee should consider for a year, considering that we had a quarantine for three months. I repeat, our faction will support this bill. And please consider the extension, not for six months, but for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u268	Thank you. I give the floor to Sauvsun Inna Romanovna, please the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u269	The honourable national deputies, the honourable fellow citizens, the bill that we are currently considering, is indeed of a technical nature. And the Voice party will certainly support this bill to support our young scientists, the postgraduates, who really cannot defend themselves through quarantine. But there's another, not a technical question that's worth discussing right now, and it's directly about education. It is a matter of appointing a new minister of education and teaching in Ukraine. Yesterday, at the Committee on Education and Science, we heard a candidate from the Ministers of Education and Science of Ukraine. And I'd very much like to ask the members of the People's Servant party right now to think about how ready they are to listen to the President's recommendations regarding the appointment of this particular candidate. What did we hear from Sergei Scarlett's minister? We asked him, "Is it true that you were a member of the Party of Regions?" He said, "No, he wasn't." Then, "Yes, I was. You know, that's what happens." I don't know how you might accidentally become a member of a particular party, but that obviously shows his very clear political position. Then he was asked, "Why do you want to be the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine?" Do you know what the candidate said? "Because I am an educator in the fourth generation." This is the level of reasoning that a person is planning to take on the role of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. When he was asked if he had a team, he said he didn't know if he had a team, because everything was happening very quickly, all of a sudden, he wasn't ready to answer that question. Is this the person who is to become the minister of education and science of Ukraine today, when the system of education faces such global, enormous challenges? I very much ask not to put this candidacy into the hall. I'm asking you to think about it. I'm sure we've got a lot of professional education, teachers, scientists, researchers, analysts who can take this job. And I'm very sorry that they find a member of the Party of Regions, a person with a plagiarism past, a person who can't answer clearly the question of what she's going to do in the office, and they're planning to take her to the hall. I ask you very much to think about this and not to go to the hall. Thank you. Inna Sowsun, Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Inno, the only thing I would ask you for in the future is that we have in the Rules that when we take a report "for" or "against" it goes on a question that is defined in the law that is being considered. And now it turns out that we've spent 20 minutes -- and we've all just confirmed that we're behind this bill. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to proceed to the vote. Please. Who else? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u271	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, you know, with respect to science and scientists, education and education, when I hear the term that it's a technical law, let's not underestimate the meaning of what we accept. This is a step in our respect for Ukrainian science, especially young scientists. And today we are doing the right thing. But I want to remind my colleagues that, in order to speed up the appointment procedure for the Minister of Education, we are now moving normally towards the completion of administrative and territorial reform, we are creating a new system of districts, districts and so forth. So important will be the authority, including the administration of educational institutions and higher education. Yesterday a new board of experts was created, so let's all do what we need to do together so that education and science are at a high level in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u272	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, if no one else wants to speak, I ask you to take your seats, we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, there was an offer -- first and foremost. If there's no objection, that's what we're going to put, because we haven't heard the number of arguments against it. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats. And I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act on the extension of the deadlines for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (draft 3463). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Professor Gethmans, you've already protected yourself, can't you vote now or what? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[14:36:19]] For 342 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am putting in place a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to extend the deadlines for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (registration number 3463). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:36:55]] For 343 The bill was adopted as a whole. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u273	Thank you. Dear colleagues. You didn't make the announcement? A very important announcement, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Just a minute. Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, I would like to report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary union called Bulling Stop!".. The heads of the interfractional MPs were elected as national deputies: Kleck Andrija Andriyovich, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, and Skyska Aleksandra Alexandrovich. Let's welcome a colleague with this remarkable event. "Bulling Stop!" Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u275	"Bulling Stop!" I think things are about to change in the Supreme Council. Let's move on. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 3510, 3510-1). It is proposed to include this issue in the agenda, and it takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[14:38:12]] For 279 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered under the ad hoc procedure and considered at this plenary session and made a decision. Please support and vote. [[14:38:35]] For 270. Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:38:53]] For 268. Decision taken. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Truhina Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u276	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, your opinion is proposed to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets. The main objective of this legislative initiative, which our President of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed, is to improve the effectiveness of public policy in the field of road management by allowing local self-government authorities to channel subsidies from the national budget to local budgets for financing and for the provision of construction, reconstruction and repair, and by maintaining the roadways of general use of local importance, streets and roads of municipal property in the localities, local debt repayment, as well as the provision of subsidies for the repayment and servicing of local debt for local borrowing. It should be noted that this source of debt repayment will apply exclusively to those loans involving the purpose of repairing local and utility roads. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of channelling State Road Fund funds within the existing budget allocations for the maintenance of budgetary institutions whose main task is to ensure the functioning and centrally manage the information and analysis resources of the road economy. The draft law will provide an opportunity to increase funding to improve the state of the car network in general use of local value on the basis of additional off-budget loans, efficient and targeted use of budgetary resources in the current year. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u277	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Tsabbal Vladimir Volodymyrovich as the author of the alternative, I understand, the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, my alternative bill, which I passed with colleagues from the Voice faction, actually includes most of the positive ones that we thought were the rules that are basically laws that aim at improving road infrastructure in Ukraine. But in addition, there is another very important problem in this law. It's a problem of underreach. In my law, I mean. This is a problem of underfunded local budgets. Currently, Ukraine’s local budgets were below 13 billion dollars in five months. It's from that shrunken plan that was after the secester. What my alternate bill foresees. He predicts that by the end of the year, an increase of 5 percent for all local budgets and 3 percent for the city of Kiev will have been temporarily increased by the end of the year. What will that do? This will provide an additional 13 billion dollars in local budgets. What accounts for this money? As a result of improving the efficiency of the use of stabfond, which was used for only 13 billion, the distribution was 34 billion in April and May. So I think the bill itself, the main one, it's ideologically good, but my alternative bill, it solves an additional important problem that we, and especially the majorists, will have to solve, if not today, otherwise the local budgets will not be able to fully finance, and the local councils will be financially incapacitated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u279	Thank you. I give the floor to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting, Mr. Yury Mihajlovich. Please, Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u280	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Issues yesterday at the meeting considered Bill 3510 on amending the Budget Code and, having considered the relevance of the issues raised and the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Ministry of Finance on the need to reconcile the draft legislation with the applicable legislation and to address the shortcomings of the normative nature, proposes such amendments to the bill. Exclusion of state guarantees for the borrowing of district councils and the responsibility of the State for such borrowings, i.e. changes to articles 17 and 74 of the Code, such as those that do not conform to the principle of fiscal autonomy. Excluding the provisions on the inclusion of subsidies in the local budget, such as those that do not meet the requirements of the Code in the use of the local budget Special Fund. Unify the position of the bill in the application of the term "loans" and determine the only approach to the implementation of subsidies and the servicing of local debt for such loans. To supplement the implementation of parliamentary control over the use of such local loans. Normalize the issue of the authorization of district councils to carry out internal borrowings. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 3510 to the Supreme Council as a result of a first reading review to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the proposals put forward by the committee. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should, in the drafting of the relevant law, impose the necessary editorial and technical legal remedies relating to the said decision of the committee. Please support the committee's decision, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u281	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, once again, with the opportunity, I would like to address all the national MPs, the majors in particular. There were 13 billion dollars missing local budgets in five months, and this is a problem that needs to be solved. We are now most likely to support this law 3510, but this problem that is being solved in an alternative, in my law, this problem is not addressed there. So let's not forget this issue and together let's create new legislative initiatives that will solve this problem very quickly. Because the entire burden of the crisis and most of the burden of the fight against the coronavirus lay in place — on the OTG, on the area, and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u283	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u284	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, and I am now particularly addressing representatives in places, local self-government bodies, this bill is aimed at supporting local self-government in Ukraine. This is about the mechanism being created when local self - government authorities, through district councils, are able to borrow funds on their own to repair and build roads of local importance, not central, state - owned, or local roads. We understand very well that in the circumstances of the Coronavirus, resources were taken from the local budgets, and they ended up with nothing. Colleagues have already talked about how little local budgets were received in the first five months. So this bill creates a mechanism so that they can raise funds and local roads to villages, in villages that have never been repaired for years, have had the opportunity to be repaired. That's why this bill has to be supported, "The Fatherland" will support it. We believe that there is a need for clear control over the expenditure of these budgets, especially those of credit. We need to make sure that these costs go where they are needed in order to build the roads of local importance. But at the same time, let's really do what we can in such a difficult year to make sure that the authorities of local self-government realize that although some things and tools are created for them, so that they can solve problems of local importance. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u285	Papieuve is a motive. Four minutes from now, with the motive of the speech, then we go to the vote. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u286	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given the social significance of this bill, our faction has decided that we will vote in favour and support. But a huge request to the committee of the relevant, profiled committee, which is the subject of this question, so that when we work on the second reading, we can clearly and clearly understand the two basics of the Budget Code, that the state budget and the local budgets are independent. Therefore, we need to write out clearly when the State is responsible for the commitments made by the local budgets and to ensure that this is entirely in line with the budgetary process, the Code of Budgets, the Constitution of Ukraine, and that it strengthens the independence of local councils so that they do not go to law enforcement after the adoption of such a law and tell all the stories. Because that's actually, if we write the law wrong, we'll do business for the police, the D.B.I., the S.B.I., the N.A.U., and everyone else. Let's protect the local council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u287	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that it is now June, and in principle, this law must be adopted immediately in two readings, so as not to lose, for example, a month or a half, and this is summer, and so for road construction it is the best period of time. So, of course, there's a proposal to support this law, and let's vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u289	Valerius Valeriusz Lunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u290	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Valérie Lunchenko, trust MP. You know, our MP group is made up exclusively of major MPs, and no one else knows as much as we do what support local self-government is. And fiscal decentralization, and these are all the laws that our group has always supported and will continue to support. This law allows local authorities to raise additional funds to build a local road network. And the road is life, we all know very well, it's the possibility that an ambulance, a fire engine can reach the remote parts of our country, into remote villages and villages to provide and ensure the full functioning of our citizens, our citizens of Ukraine. So our MP group insists that we vote for this law today as a whole, and we urge all of our colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u291	Gevko Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's a secret for anyone in this room that we're in right now. If we're talking about the roads of local importance, in many cases they're practically destroyed, they're completely gone. This bill is extremely important in that it provides additional mechanisms to enable these roads to be restored. And that's why it's extremely high priority for the President's Big Construction program, which is called upon in many cases to restore the roads that are now in need of first repair and are the highest priority. So I urge everyone to support this bill, especially the major MPs, who, every time they go to their districts, they hear these problems when they're reinstated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-04-m0.u293	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (Registration No. 3510). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:57]] For 329 Decision taken. In general, I'm betting. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukraine Budget Code (Registration No. 3510). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:31]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have Bill 3398. Can we vote without talking? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on State Control of Food, Feed, Animal by-products, Animal Health and Animal Welfare. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:54:28]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, Bill 2823. Will anyone insist on the papers? [[B in m in s a l in]] They won't? Can we put it to a vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the expulsion of judges in the order of the temporary transfer of judges to another court (registration No. 2823). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:55:27]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is 2247: a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on military service names. Will anyone insist? Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you insisting on the papers? Yours, Mikhail Mikolaiovich? No, there isn't. How can you resist that? I'll bet you a vote. It's a second reading. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service titles (registration No. 2247). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:35]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. And the last question today, I think, is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (Registration No. 2043). Don't you insist on law enforcement? I bet the vote on the second reading proposal and in general (can you be a little quieter, dear colleagues?) With the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (for confirmation of compliance of the information system with information protection requirements) (registration No. 2043). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:57:45]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. 2043 – are you insisting on the papers? Can we vote? Fedienka's going to have a holiday tonight. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. 2042. Oh, no, I'm sorry, that's all. We've been working pretty constructively for the last five minutes. Thank you all for your work. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you all again.
