ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. I'll remind you, the registration takes place with the green "Z" button. [[10:12:04]] There are 304 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we have two colleagues' birthdays – Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich and Maxim Vasilovich Pavluk. Hello! Best of luck, health, success, and achievement! Once again with the holiday! [[Applause]] Let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Ustinova? Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, today, June 3, exactly the year Cyril Tlyavov died, a 5-year-old boy with big blue eyes, whom we all watched on TV and believed that a year later those people who shot him would end up in prison. No man has ever sat down! Not enough, they don't even sit in S.I.A. They're home now. And very little, I'll tell you, so far no weapon has been found from which a five-year-old was killed. Simply put, for those who do not understand what this means, it means that the case in court will be broken. And those who killed the little boy will be released, and perhaps then will be reinstated at work in the Ukrainian National Police. You know, we were promised a year ago to land. The only one they've got is Ukraine on quarantine. We didn't see any more landings. Few people who have been killed are released. The only people who are currently sitting at the station are the volunteers who are being accused of killing a journalist. Volunteers who were willing to be taken into custody by the national deputies, who were willing to make a bid for half of Ukraine. But they've been chosen as guilty, accused and planted, and now, with journalistic investigations, we can see it, it's completely falsified. If you remember, two years ago, three years ago, I apologize, a terrible event occurred when six policemen were killed in front of a family. To death! Two of them are still working in the National Police. So I urge everyone today, we continue to collect signatures for Arsen Awakov's resignation. He is to be followed by the head of the National Police. We need to restart this system so that we have decent people working with the police, not rapists and murderers who have no responsibility at all. I want to remind every major. Mr. Dirdin, it was your district that killed the child. I'd like to remind you, Mrs. Speedhod, that's your district. Please tell me, will you sign for Habakkuk’s resignation? So I ask everyone not to close their eyes, because it will be your responsibility if rape and murder continue. On Friday, we saw what was going on in Barovara. Yesterday, while we were sitting here with you, the same thing happened in Odessa. This will continue to happen in every region, they will shoot people, they will rape the precincts while we all close our eyes. We urge you to sign under the resignation of the Minister of Internal Affairs, he's in office for six years, he's got nothing to store for his predecessors right now, he's got to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainians, a year ago, when Zelensky started throwing mud at his predecessors, telling them which is not such a previous president, government and parliament, he claimed that the only effective minister was Habakkuk. On August 29, when a government was appointed from the Internet, new faces were left there, the only not-new face — Habakkuk. And Zelensky took responsibility for the minister, claiming that he had to investigate criminal matters. In December, Greens pulled to the Avakov and Ryabosapka press conference and on live air appointed the guilty, the killer of journalist Sheremet. And unfortunately, there are no national deputies in this recognized President without trial and prosecution, except for "European Solidarity". We call on colleagues in a very narrow electoral field on June 10th at 12:30 a.m. together to come to court, where veterans and volunteers will be struck down again. And what we're seeing now is, dear Ukrainians, here is a cheap show called "The King is Good, the Warriors are Bad," trying to translate the responsibility of the king into combat. But Avakov is Zelenski. He took full responsibility for this minister. Vedektova is Zelenski. DBR is Zelenski. Smigal is Zelenski. And our political power insists that this government of Zelensky should resign, because we are precisely against the Minister of Defense, who is destabilizing the Ukrainian military. Because we're definitely against the Minister of Economics and Social Affairs, whose last name doesn't even know Green. Because there's no economy in this country today and there's no sociopolitics. Yes, Habakkuk too must go. But you don't have to play such a game here that there are bad fighters and a good king. We're not going to give responsibility to anyone. The full responsibility is that there is no reaction to the fact that the killer of the little boy is on the loose today. And this is Green and Green. On the day of the Battle of Barovara, the government of Zelensky gathered on a motivational, sort of Oriflame team building, where they wrote a program that doesn't exist. That's why we demand that Parliament's leadership immediately give us the letters that are being blocked to collect 150 signatures for the resignation of the Green government. The government that doesn't have a program, there's no strategy, there's no ideology, there's no ideology that's collapsed the economy that's collapsed the medicine that doesn't have a minister of education where the culture minister was able to appoint him, only after the candidate lost another team building to the election of the Kiev mayor in the "ministers of the people." What kind of government is this? It's just a line of greenish office shrapnel that has to retire. And do not put the king’s responsibility into battle.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u5	Beermaker Eugene Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u6	Ducks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u7	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u8	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Honorable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, respected kyans, most of you have gone to work today in huge traffic jams. Hundreds of thousands of kyans travel an average year for 1 month in traffic, instead of spending this time with their loved ones, parents, doing their jobs, because of unwarranted politics, the mayor of Kiev must suffer. The reason for all of this was the free administration of the environment and the mayor of Vitaly Klicka himself. He is surrounded by incompetent people, free people, and ordinary corrupters. The first deputy, Klick, was recently detained in a bribe of several hundred thousand dollars. Another deputy on a luxury car is detained by police because he allowed himself to drive drunk during the evening. Who do we have: Are we intoxicated or are we ruled by Kiev? I don't understand. That is why, in recent years, our capital has turned from a flagman of Europe, from a European capital to a common provincial city. And every day it turns more and more. The front projects, the ones that we were offered: the glass bridge that was built in billions, and every day, like no week, it cracks, and it's already clear that there were breaches in the operation, and it wasn't exactly that expensive; the Shulavian tour where billions were stolen and then bought various sports cars and airplanes by the mayor's friends. All of this shows that our city, our capital, is ruled by the corrupt gang Vitalia Klitka. And clearly, when I asked for the Shulavian tour and asked why a few billion dollars were spent on this city and why hundreds of millions were listed immediately, Vitaly Klitschko answered me himself. He documented it and wrote that there were very expensive building materials at the time. Why don't they build a bridge? Because they didn't know there was a Bolshevik factory number five. What is incompetence? Was this the purpose of the city’s headmaster? We will find this answer clearly within the framework of the interim commission of inquiry that I initiated, and in the coming week, the regular committee of profile will support my initiative, and we will put all the dots above the "and" on the money theft in the capital, and we will bring to the responsibility of those corrupts who.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after the withdrawal of Ukraine from quarantine, Ukraine is in fact threatened by another catastrophe -- it's a rise in food prices. The agrarians of Odščina are alarmed, and the same is true of Mikolayevščina, Hersonščina, and the associations are alarmed. Odessa’s district council and head of the Odessa administration are contacting us, with a request from the government. Colleagues, the wheat in that area almost died completely, lost 75 percent of its rape. Farmers expect a loss per hectare of about 10,000 dollars, 100 hectares -- that's 1 million, that's a thousand hectares -- that's 10 million. Colleagues, these are significant funds for the Ukrainian village and for agriculture. Some countries have begun to restrict exports, and Vietnam has begun to restrict the export of rice, Russia, and Kazakhstan’s restrictions on grains, including vegetables. The same is true in some countries of the European Union, such as Romania. What about us, colleagues? We have traditionally had problems in the government. The National Security Council calls on the government to fill the reserves of the Reserve. What's in the reservation, colleagues? In the Tree Mouse, the mice ate grain in the Ternopil region for nearly 800 million tons. Fellow mice ate nearly 150 wagons of grain. You know, every mouse has its own name. And this is the activity of law enforcement agencies to find every last name that stole such a huge amount of money from the state. Colleagues, 800 million! Parenthood has offered to make purchases of all necessary goods to avoid rising prices for socially significant goods through a determination. And do you think the agrarian committee has considered this determination? To date, this decree has been exclusively registered, although the National Security Council has long since applied to the government for appropriate purchases. You think you found those mice that stole 800 million from the state? 800 million tons, 800 million dollars of grain? No, it's not. We know the names of these leaders, these people are still walking around Ukraine. Colleagues, we've registered another decision -- that's a change to the budget, where we've proposed that one and a half billion of the Stability Fund be sent to support the agrarians of Odeschen, Hersonian and Mikolayevstina. No one wants to consider such decisions. Surrender! And let's look at what we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u11	Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u12	Good morning, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, last week, the whole of Ukraine was surrounded by information and the situation around Ukraine. You know, today the mob is trying to stop the big construction, inventing fairies and investigating, filming funky reports. And they have one claim: that big construction is being done by big companies. And my question is, who's going to be building 4,000 roads? How was 30 years ago, we had one-day companies that took tens, hundreds of millions of dollars with a statutory fund of thousands of dollars? And that's the only claim -- that Ukrainetodor today is relying on large-scale, well-understood companies. It's manipulation and absurdity. And the situation that's going on around Ukraine today and his boss, Alexander Kubrakov, is provocation, and it's the pressure of a road mafia that's been sitting on budget for decades, sitting on the streets, not building, not building, not drinking these funds. Where are the roads in 30 years? And these people are trying to take away the leader of the Ukrautodora Alexander Kubrakov because he's trying to build honest rules. So a large building is going on and on. Today, 2,000 miles [2,000 km] are being built, and at the end of the year, 4,000 roads of national importance and 2,000 miles [2,000 km] of local importance are to be built. A busy bridge, in turn a cremenchuc, a Mycolayian bridge. For five years, President Vladimir Zelensky's program is to rebuild tens of thousands of miles and hundreds of bridges. And today, as national MPs, we're talking, and a group of colleagues and I have made a call to the law enforcement agencies: to focus on this situation, we've taken control of the materials that Alexander Kubrakov sent to the BSS to prevent the collapse of the big building. You know that the 1st bracelet, put into the construction of roads, returns to the 1st bracelet of 65 copies for the economy. These are jobs, roads are economics. So it is also important for us to adopt bill 2680 – on reducing the impact of bureaucratic mechanisms on the road sector, 2234 – on optimizing and detinising business processes in the field, because we have a Soviet methodology, and all these project-based instruments, sorry, this is yesterday and this is a manipulation, and to continue to provide worthy funding for this great project, Bills 3509, 3510, so that all 4,000 kilometers of new roads can be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u13	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Very often there are speeches from this rostrum and in the hall about the state of health today. This concerns all of us, for when a loved one is sick, we want to receive quality help. The symbol of health reform is an organization called the National Health Service. This is the institution that was created to change the health system in Ukraine. This institution has almost the entire budget of the health system this year, almost 100 billion dollars. So, colleagues, I want everyone to understand that today our hope for quality help can be killed, and this is done by Mr. Stepanov, Minister of Health. I was at interviews yesterday, so-called interviews at the head of this institution, which I recall has 100 billion dollars. I want to tell you about my experience. First, interviews were held for 10 to 15 minutes. You can imagine, the interview for 100 billion dollars is 10 minutes. The minister was demonstratively not listening to the reporters, he was not interested in what they were responding to. You know why? Because he's already decided who's in charge of this service. When I tried to broadcast these interviews to people because many wanted to come and see how this was happening, the minister kicked me out of the Ministry of Health, he just wouldn't let me do it, even though I wanted to be transparent. He calls it the breakup of interviews, of colleagues, what someone wants to do is just broadcast it to people. So, you know, I want to remind you again, this person can't take up his post, and there's not supposed to be a health contractor, because we're going to continue to save our relatives as we can, and that's what the state is going to do. So, colleagues, I remind you, there is a decree to release Mr. Stepanov Maxim from his post. I urge everyone who really cares about the health care system to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u15	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Anna Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I don't know what some of our colleagues are saying here, maybe they're just not sneezes, so they're driving in traffic, but the subway worked. For example, I arrived without obstacles today. As for those charges that were made by one of the colleagues regarding the situation in Preyaslav, Kagarlik. I would like to remind you that these cases are being investigated by the State Bureau of Investigation, and the case against Preyaslav has been brought to trial. 4 persons have been charged, and believe me, all these cases are under control and will be punished according to the law in force in Ukraine. Next. On May 20, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a forward-looking plan of the OTH territory, and it was totally irrelevant to the wishes and decisions of the communities themselves, within whom they wanted to unite. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities provides for voluntary unification rather than the desire and lobbying of the interests of certain district deputies or deputies of local councils who are preparing for elections and who are innocuously depriving budgets. Please tell me, how can such outlook plans be approved? Mr. Andrey Klochko, I'm addressing you now. I've asked you to make suggestions for changes to the outlook. You've given me an incomprehensible discount, but with the Minister of Community Development and Territory, it's said that the committee in charge is giving you comments and suggestions that need to be made to the approved outlook. Perhaps you have forgotten that you have been chosen and are working for the people of Ukraine. So I ask once again that all those who want to unite within those boundaries and with those territorial communities with whom they want their wishes to be fulfilled. Because it is people who decide who and how to unite with. I want to mark a few villages, especially from my district: Prijekki, Stekka, Stritovka, Grušovska and Malobukrinska. Please bring these villages, these territorial communities they want to go to. Medical reform. I apologize, this is not a medical reform, it is a genocide of the Ukrainian people and the destruction of populations in villages and small towns. In the past two months, some 28,000 doctors have lost their jobs. Doctors don't get paid, I'll keep quiet about the promised pay. The space fast doesn't go on calls or it comes in 1.5-2 hours because of the distance. There was no medical care available in the villages, even small FAPs, which at any rate helped in any way. People don't even have the ability to get to hospitals because there's no transport connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u17	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u18	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the Fatherland Party and its leader, Mrs. Tymoshenko, we have never opposed reforms, we have always opposed unprofessional, sorry, the idiotic actions of non-professionals, who under the terms of so-called reforms, primarily in the energy and utility sphere, today have ushered in huge debts to the entire population of Ukraine, consumers, all subjects, all watercanals, all heatcommuneers, energy companies, coal mines and so on. So, dear friends, when we heard that there were so-called IMF terms for raising or introducing market tariffs as preconditions for providing further financial support, we weren't just surprised -- we were indignant. 65 billion dollars in debts to the population of Ukraine for residential services. And don't we have to figure out where these debts came from, where the second one came from, and what kind of institution in the state is acting as a flagman and a leader in public tariff policy? I would like to remind you, first of all, your distinguished colleagues in the "Serve of the People" that your President, our President, including from this rostrum, has asked all of you a question: how did this happen, the price of gas go down and the billing went up? Tell me, was it in the air that he was giving these orders? What body answered that question? Give me an answer, what is this that you have created under the law, an independent National Commission for Energy and Utilities, as if responsible for tariffs? Tell me, please, do you know that there are 600 people working there? Please tell me, do you know that the members of the NCREKP receive 150,000 dollars to pay? Give me an answer. What are they doing there? Why is everyone in debt? Let me give you some specific examples. "Energot" is 7.5 billion debt on the so-called "Energy". The shafts stop, the mines in debt, the heat utility in debt, the Ukrtransgas, 44 billion debts, damages, and water canals in debt. What's going on, dear friends? You've been yelling about the energy treachery lately. I have 150 pages of information from the antitrust committee and this committee called that about speculation. Do you think there was one reaction? There was no reaction. And the last. Friends, if your government is unable to negotiate professionally with the IMF, please invite professionals, and we will explain that there can be no increase in tariffs today until we figure out who and how much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u19	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u20	Klimenko, the Voice faction Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that quarantine and the fight against coronavirus is medicine, part of the problem. We're entering real economic and socio-economic. It's a cycle that's about to give up. The great depression will seem to us to be childish toys. I want to remind you of some numbers. In fact, there was an oligarchic clearing of small and medium - size business during quarantine. At present, more than 600,000 people have registered as unemployed. The number of vacancies in the employment centers has dropped to a minimum, now it seems to be about 60,000 people. Those who worked even during quarantine with the employment center earned an average of 3,000,700 dollars at a subsistence minimum of 4,800. It's not called fighting unemployment -- it's called modern slavery, which is introduced in Ukraine. I also want to tell you that according to UNICEF it is expected that by the end of the year, there will be an increase in the number of people outside the poverty line to 6 million, and in a bad scenario to 9 million, of them almost 2 million children. This means that we must take care of this today in order to get out of this crisis somehow by the end of the year. We've assigned you as a parliament to fight against the coronavirus not only in the medical sector, but also in the socio-economic 65 billion. Of these 65 billion today, 13 billion have been spent, while 34 billion have been written down for April and May. What does that mean? That the government can't even spend that money effectively that you and I have given him to fight the coronavirus, to provide our population with basic programs of support. In America at this point in the week, they're spending a thousand 200 dollars to just survive and invest in the economy, to feed people. You and I have 3,000,700 dollars a month for the unemployed! The programs promised to us by the government in part-time unemployment, according to the FOPs, in addition to the children of FOPs first and second group, the low-cost loans of 5-7-9 actually don't work or work very, very little. That's why we, the Voice faction, demand that at last the minister, the whale in a bag, whom you assigned two months ago, the minister of the economy, no one has ever seen or heard of it since, and tell us clearly what the effectiveness of the programs that have been implemented by the government and parliament, how many people have received, how much money have actually received, how much credit has been received, and what is the plan to fight unemployment and combat. And new jobs. That space plan in 500,000 jobs, we want to hear how it's being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u22	Good Health, Honorable People’s Deputies! Mr. Head, the reverend Ukrainian people! I am addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov today. In recent times, the Prikarpata has often deliberately set up residences, automobiles, private buildings, and commercial premises. From the urban level, frequent arsons move to a more regional - district one. Offenders feel secure and may believe that they will not be punished for illegal acts. Indeed, the law before criminals does not work. Why can't the police find the cigarettes and bring them to criminal responsibility? There are reliable videos that say that on May 29, 2020, in the city of Supernatural Ivano-Frankiv district, and the day before today, there was a fire in the village of the town-type Divines. It was in the city of Overwhelming on May 29 that four nonresidential buildings were set on fire. A clear example of these words is the cast of Molotov's cocktail in the courtyard of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Carpathage of Michael Laby. The deliberate arson was carried out on May 15 of this year. This may be the way the wrongdoers want to set up accounts or someone who may want to intimidate or misunderstandings and warnings. Such shameful things lead to civil panic, since no one else is known to choose the fuel. But the fuel can pick someone. I'm reminding you, out of 2020, not the bad '90s. Such things cannot go unpunished, for every person and his life, his health, his profession, and his daily work for the benefit of the community must be protected. It must be assured that it must be protected by law enforcement authorities. We ask, more loyally, for today we demand that we make every effort to identify and hold wrongdoers accountable to ensure the peace of our citizens. We must find and punish, according to the law of the fields themselves, as well as the buyers themselves. On May 29, at the setting on fire in the central part of the city, a photo report was made, apart from the arson, for the customers to carry out the order. Today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is fully accountable to the community – ensuring and maintaining civil order. It is your responsibility to protect the lives and health of your citizens. The crowd is demanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u23	Thank you. A statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to address the appeal that has come to the national deputies of Lviv, from the village and city heads of our region. This reference refers to a regional problem, but this problem has already become commonplace in Ukraine, it's a problem of decentralization in our country. Decentralisation seemed to be one of the most successful reforms. Decentralisation is a reform that has been discussed by all MPs and now by today's deputies independent of factions and groups. But in the exercise of power today, this process of decentralization is very often transformed into a simple rape of communities. And this case, this process is happening in Lviv. But this whole procedure started here, in the session room, when the majority of deputies with their legislative initiatives ignored the ability of local communities to influence community creation in the regions. And today, the process in Lviv has put at real risk the potential of local self-government, the potential of communities and their financial support. This is primarily about the creation of the great Lion. Would it seem that any of the Lvivians or any of the Ukrainians were against Lviv, the world's most Ukrainian-speaking city, having the opportunity to grow up, having the opportunity to develop? This is supported by all — both the inhabitants of Lviv and the inhabitants of the surrounding communities. But the process that is taking place is of great concern. And here in the reference, it's clearly stated that there are no public hearings, no public discussion of this process. Because the building mafia, which today is driven by the greed of profit, has already built everything that is possible in Lviv, requires new land. Why are residents of the surrounding regions protesting? Because they're afraid. They fear that Lviv’s 6 billion debt will simply be placed on their shoulders. They fear that in their communities, as is the case today in Lviv, they will repair a mile [1 km] per 260 million. That's what we're asking. We ask the President, the government to ensure that, with the participation of the Ukrainian people's deputies, proper public hearings are held, the community-building procedure has been followed so that Lviv and Lviv are not created without the people who live and work in our region today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been proposed to amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (registration number 3512). Is there a need for discussion? No, it's not. We can vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 3512). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:51:57]] For 263 Decision taken. It's been decided. The factions. Next in line with the discussion? A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. Geo Bagravitch Leros. Then the decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I especially address my colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction. What is "Serve of the People" anyway? It's not a brand. It's not a show. These are the principles with which we came to the Supreme Council. These are the principles when personal interests end and public interests begin. I want each of you to understand that. Two months ago, I published videos where the President’s own brother was dealing in government offices. No one is being punished for these crimes today. Andrew Jermak is still the head of the President’s Office. This morning, at 9 a.m., I had a briefing at the NABU, where I provided unprecedented evidence of top-corruption in Kiev. This is where the head of this OPG is Andrew Jermak, his colleague is, a colleague of our faction, his godfather, where Denis Komarnicky, "watching" after Kiev, directs all the flows through Andrew Jermak, and now they're focusing on the local elections. I appeal to my colleagues to stop maintaining these corrupt connections. And I want to turn to this OPG and say that the ground beneath you will burn! I'll plant each and every one of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u27	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Decision on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads and Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:54:25]] For 263 Decision taken. Right with the discussion? David Georgiyovich Arahami
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u28	I understand people love it when I speak, thank you. I am in favour of transferring Mr. Sanchez, our colleague, to the Committee on Freedom of Speech in order to strengthen freedom of speech in our country and in our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Committee position, Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u30	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs. As I said yesterday, this project proposes to select the deputy Sanchenk, who has gained parliamentary powers in January and has not yet been elected to any committee. In addition, you know, yesterday a Supreme Council decree was adopted in which Motovilovitsa was released from office as a member of this committee. Thus, within this committee, there are only four national deputies with the necessary minimum composition — five. The decision of the committee, which was approved, stated that a draft Decree 3019 had been tabled by members of the committee on February 5th. Thus, if Parliament adopts the draft Decree 3402, it is appropriate to withdraw the draft Decree 3019 as such, which has become obsolete. Thus, the regulatory committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the draft Decree 3402 as a whole and to withdraw Project 3019 as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u31	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, first of all, it's nice to say that sometimes most people will listen to the opposition and today they hold the dress code, it's nice to look at the leader of the faction of most. More seriously, when we talk about freedom of speech in Ukraine, today we see enormous threats. It's not just that there are so-called "darks" on television again, so-called "black lists of opposition" that cannot be shown on some television channels. But more and more seriously, what is happening and around the issue that we are discussing today is human rights. Unfortunately, some TV channels have allowed themselves to publish the names and faces of the woman who was the victim of the "Mentovian" Swahili in Kagarlik. And notice that there is no response to this abuse of fundamental human rights: neither the President of Greens, nor the government of Greens, nor the prosecutor's office of Greens, nor the Committee for the Freedom of the Word of Greens, nor the person who will run for minister of culture, spirituality, and Greens. And that's why we demand that the Committee on Freedom of Speech address this issue -- violation of key human rights -- when the victim's face, which is to be protected, is shown on all television channels, and that has no response. By the way, the journalists of these TV channels today are deputizing the majority, and from them, friends, there was no public reaction to this disgrace. Similarly, we expect the Committee on Freedom of Speech to address the disgrace of beating the journalists of the Greensky DBR TV channel. We hope that the committee will become a committee of freedom of speech, but not just the names of freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich, faction of the People's Servant Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u34	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. It's actually every right of a national MP to be elected to the committee he wants to work on. Our freedom of speech in the country, it is celebrated by what, indeed, we have, regardless of what we say. In neighboring countries, the situation is quite different. I'm talking about some of our neighbors where freedom of speech is limited. But what is freedom of speech? Freedom of speech is not permissiveness and it is not work for individual political interests. We have a group of TV channels that allow themselves to be insulted, allowing themselves to be embroiled in animosity. On the air of one direct channel, one of the leaders allowed himself to be offended by a national MP, our deputy, Marianne Besuglou. It's a violent violation of the standards of journalism, it's not freedom of speech, it's simply, my friends, a disgrace! And then this, this famous leader who worked in many countries, who is working the dungeons that are given to one political party that is in this room, he didn't even apologize to this girl, to this national MP who represents our political party. So let's, let's have freedom of speech, but we don't have shame, we don't have propaganda, we don't have animosity, and on no channel should we call people Jews, as it was on the same channel as I mentioned. It's completely insane, and we have to stop it. And the Freedom Committee, let us vote and strengthen by our strong deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u35	Please, National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the position of the authors of the initiative has not been fully understood, so I ask you to convey the word to the head of the "Serve of the People" faction of David Arahami. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u37	I'm sorry, you can only pass on to members of your faction, because two against, two against. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, my friends, here comes the debate: pros and cons. Since the People's Party has just made a brilliant speech, I think it will be an unfair humiliation of the rights and duties of other subjects of the parliamentary opposition in order to pass on and usurp power at the microphone. I thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich, for your fatherly concern for the leader of our faction, but I think David Georgiyovich himself is capable of pressing the button and taking the floor. I give the word Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u38	Thank you. I would like to remind the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that according to Ukraine's regulations and laws it is non-fractional, and because when he says "our faction," it does not correspond to reality, because you have a non-fractional status. As far as this decision is concerned. Dear colleagues, look, yesterday you are taking a ruling from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, knowing that we are forbidden by the Rules to have fewer than five Ukrainian national deputies on the committee. You're withdrawing from the Committee on Freedom of Speech from a Ukrainian national deputy, leaving 4. I mean, remember, Decree 3401. Today, with incredible effort, you are starting to bring a number of committees into line with the laws of Ukraine, and now this absolutely raises the question: why did you do it yesterday? And one more thing. I would ask you, Mr. Head, to abide by the Rules. We have the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you remember, there's article 7, part three, which clearly predicts that there are reasons why a person comes out of a committee. It provides for both work and other circumstances. We just voted on the previous ruling. Please explain to me the "minister of the people" from the post of deputy head of the Committee on Youth and Sports is moving into a fuel-energy committee. We understand what this is about, right? - when the committee's deputy head goes to a simple member, but such a resourceful, fat committee. And you need to be honest about the reasons why a national MP has such a desire to work as a simple member of such a powerful, you know, energy committee and send his office as a substitute for the head of another. So I would ask that we not vote on such decisions, for they are absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u39	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I'll answer if you don't mind. First of all, the decrees have not yet been signed, that is, those that have not entered into force. So far, so good. Wait, don't scream! I didn't interrupt, I didn't interrupt. Another question is, you didn't support your colleague, because it's your representative who's leading this committee. So you just put, yesterday, more loyally, the possibility that this committee might exist. I am sure that today you will correct your mistake and vote in favour of Decree 3402, in which no one goes anywhere, only man will fight and defend the interests of our state in the fight for freedom of speech. That's why I think we can go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u40	One more second, because there was a line for me. I didn't say "ours," I said "the biggest." Maybe it's because of me. Let me make that clear, but I meant the largest faction, but once again, let's look at the stenographer, if not, it was meant to be. This is about our lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u41	Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Colleagues ready to vote? I am confident that, as always, the question of freedom of speech will bring this room together. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3402). Please support and vote. [[11:06:37]] For 278 Decision taken. Show by factions who are against freedom of speech. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information on the Reduction of the Publication Period of Draft Laws, Decisions of Local Self-Government Authorities (Registration No. 2228). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:07:30.]] For 260 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikishi Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u42	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the national parliament, your attention is drawn to the proposed revised draft Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information on the Reduction of the time-limit for the publication of draft legislation and local self-government decisions. The bill is designed to optimize the work of local self-government authorities, provide quality, operational information to society to ensure more effective implementation of the rights and interests of rural communities, villages and cities. To this end, it is proposed to amend part three of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Access to Public Information, which provides for a shortening of the deadline for the publication of draft legislation and local self-government decisions from 20 working days to 10 calendar days before they are considered for adoption. I would like to point out that the proposals to shorten the specified 20-day deadline were repeatedly expressed by representatives of local self-government, an expert environment, such as the Association of Ukrainian Cities. These proposals were based on the collegiality of the stated rule on the provisions of a series of legislative acts relating to the regulation of local self-government, namely, in the fourth part of the first part of Article 4-1. The Ukrainian Act on Free System in Economic Activities states that the deadline for issuing permits is 10 working days. That is, the local government in its work violates one of the two laws. I would like to stress that this bill will allow for the operational, openness and accessibility of local self-government bodies and will facilitate their timely and high-quality implementation. This will have a positive impact on the work of local self-government officials who represent the interests of citizens and the direct responsibility for the implementation of the Public Information Act. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u44	Colleagues, we've been looking at this bill on the committee, it seems to be simple -- one line, but it has so many meanings that there has been a lot of discussion, including on the question: 10 calendar cuts or 10 working hours. In principle, everyone supports the need for this reduction. And there is a statement by the local authorities, however, that there is also concern that the right of the public to discuss these documents and the possibility of covering up the possible abuses of local authority also exists. So I'm going to send it out for a second reading. We're going to look at the committee this time and we're going to make the final decision on the likely change in the proposed idea that we're generally supporting, from 10 calendar days to 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, MP's Party for the Future. People's deputy, Bilozore.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Dear representatives of local self - government! Indeed, the procedure for making local council decisions public is important for the public to have access and to learn about these draft decisions. However, there may have been a number of representatives of the local authorities and city heads, district council members. In my day, I was a member of the district council. And I want to say that in practice, especially this article on access to public information in part of the publication requirement for 20 working days, it points to the imperfections of this standard. In fact, if you want to make any changes to the same decision, it takes 20 working days again. And that's actually two months. Today, these 20 days of legislation are in place, slowing down decisions, and in the face of a pandemic and a coronavirus, the need to make quick decisions will actually stop council meetings. The district council can actually meet once every three months. And if we're talking about city councils, village councils, rural councils, it's actually against other laws. And it turns out that actually then we have lawsuits. I think, and our group thinks, "For the future," that such long terms are not justified and create conflicts in land issues in rural, rural councils in terms of land permits, in terms of advertising. For example, the Earth Code (art. 118) says that decisions on land privatization are made within a month. And we're still having problems with the courts for such a long time. There are 10 calendar days in this bill, and we support this rule, and this period is consistent with the deadline for the report of local self-government MPs on the convening of the session. That's enough time to do that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u47	Thank you. Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Mr. Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u49	I can't hear you. Maxim Dirdin, please turn on the microphone. Maxim Eugene Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u50	Colleagues, please support this bill 2228 because, in fact, the authorities of local self-government are making such a request that this bill is in time and its necessity is called on both by the term and the time of consideration of such issues. And that's why it's worth supporting, and I'm asking you to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u51	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u52	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. In fact, I don't really understand why this bill is on time, because obviously many of you have worked or worked in communities, in local self - government, and they know very well how these communities don't carry out these commitments in particular on 20 calendar days, working days. But first of all, we're reducing it not just by double, but we're talking about 10 calendar days. And here I have a question: where is the community lost, how can the community control and see, what is being done, what are the draft decisions being put into the agenda of a local council? I'll give you an example. For example, on June 11, the city council will have a session. And this session will bring up 546 questions, 300 of them with copies -- new ones, not moved from the previous one. I have a question: do you think these deputies will read these draft decisions in 10 days? Will you, MPs, read these questions and come, or will you? The question is, how will the community study these 10 days, which are too few, calendar decisions? It's not enough to remind me that nobody's here. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this is not really a problem, and we do not exactly have the irreversibility of being responsible for the fact that these local council bodies don't make draft decisions in 20 working days. So I think there should be a responsibility, for example, I don't know, a complaint after, a possibility of a complaint after a decision has been made, if in that case the draft decision has not been published. You all know budget nights and days in December-November months in local self-government. So I do have a request to return to work. The Voice faction won't support it in the first reading. 10 calendar days is not the time for the community or the MPs to do exactly the right things, and the time to do the wrong things is always there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u53	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u54	Please give the word to the local self-governance guru, Alexander Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u55	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the fact is that we actually have 20 days' deadlines that do not allow us to work effectively at local self-government by holding our sessions and resolving urgent issues. Because there, when a decision is being discussed and documents submitted to the district government authorities are being submitted, they need to be republished. And each time it causes exactly the kind of problems that apply to these big terms. And those decisions that the community needs can take longer than a month and a half without consideration. So we think that this is a question that needs to be discussed not only with local associations of local self - government, but we should support them today. We were approached today by cities and villages that suggest that we change these terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u57	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich with motive. After that, Bakunec with a motive. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, see what's going on, whether the local authorities are now implementing this law. When you look at the questions that the Lviv city head asks at a meeting of the Lviv city council, you'll realize that this is often done in one or two days at all. And when communities are now forcibly united during local self - government, citizens will not have access to the documents and acts of local self - government that are to be voted on. Our "European Solidarity" faction is firmly against shortening the deadline to 10 calendar days. A term of 10 working days may be discussed as well as the responsibility of the leaders of self - government for failing to comply with that term. We support the rereading of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies seem to be hiding a number of problems for this good purpose. Because the deadline for the publication of draft decisions for local governments is dropping from 20 working days to 10 calendar days, I would like to stress again: from 20 working days to 10 calendar days. This means that local authorities will have just one week to publish draft decisions from sessions or executive committees. I worked as a city head myself, and I followed these standards. This is enough to develop our civil society. In a week, public organizations and those involved in these matters will not be able to study them or influence the decision of the local government. So the Trust MP group, which consists exclusively of seniors from various parts of Ukraine, which cooperates directly with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u61	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's Scrum, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, in fact, are a very simple bill and should be accepted. He's talking about speedy reporting to Ukrainian citizens on the activities of local self-government. All he's doing is a small part of public service openness and government administration in the country. And I'll remind you that we have state administration and the government service is fully procrastinating and not functioning properly in this weak country where it is today. And I also have to remind you that there is absolutely nothing done in the service reform of local self-government. As early as September, a draft of the Service Law was registered with the local authorities. He is neither discussed nor considered on the committee; no one wants to work with him. And the authorities of local self - government, unfortunately, cannot understand why. And another bill (2260) on reform of government, on greater openness and transparency of government, and on electronic paperwork in the state, again on openness, adopted with us in December, adopted by everyone in this Parliament, is not signed by the President for five months, as far as it is concerned. I don't see why, because he has to sign the law for 15 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm going to give 30 seconds to Tuck with a 10-day motive for Bakunka's position." And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u64	Colleagues, this is a decision you can support in the first reading. The committee heard different points of view. And in the second reading, he tends to offer 10 working days. So please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 15 of the Law on Access to Public Information, on the reduction of the time limit for the publication of draft legal acts, decisions of local self-government bodies (registration No. 2228). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:22:45]] For 298 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the right of a natural person to change his father's rights (registration number 2450). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Is it necessary to discuss it? You don't have to. Can we vote? Do you insist on discussing it? Then it's a short-circuit procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:23:27]] For 254 Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Vatras Volodymyr Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u66	People's MP Vladimir Watras, political faction of "Serve of the People." Dear Head, honourable colleagues, distinguished fellow countrymen, I suggest you consider a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws on the right of a natural person to change his father. The legislation of Ukraine today freely allows a natural person to change his name and surname, but the legislator does not explicitly provide for the right of a natural person to change his own judgment according to his father, which according to the authors of the bill violates the Constitution. It should be noted that the above problem comes not only from national jurisprudence but also from the European Court of Human Rights. Yes, on 16 May 2013, the ECHR decision on Harnag v Ukraine established a violation by Ukraine of article 8 of the European Convention, and the European Court of Justice noted that the provisions of Ukraine's legislation governing the change of name and surname are in line with European practice. Instead, Ukrainian legislation deprives individuals of the opportunity to change their ways according to their father, which according to European Court of Human Rights judges are in grave conflict with European practice. In this context, the proposed bill allows the European Court of Human Rights to execute its decision in the Harnag v. Ukraine case and amends article 149 and article 295 of the relevant Civil and Family Code. The essence of the bill is that a natural person with a change of name and surname is given the opportunity to change his or her by his or her father at the age of 14 with the consent of his or her parents and legal representatives. As a reporter on behalf of the committee, I will note the following. By order of the Head of the Supreme Council of November 18, 2019, the Legal Policy Committee discussed the above draft law at its meeting on January 15, 2020 (Protocol No.19). The committee concluded that the right to privacy and family life was a fundamental value for the full prosperity of a person in a democratic society, and was seen as the right of a natural person to an autonomous existence regardless of the state, local self - government bodies, legal and physical persons. Taking into account the legal position of the European Court of Human Rights, the members of the committee consider it necessary to support the lifting of restrictions on a person’s father’s change and to ensure the constitutional right of citizens to respect their private and family life. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice supports the above-mentioned draft in the first reading on the basis of the comments and suggestions made to it. In this regard, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Law amending certain laws on the right of a natural person to change his father (No. 2450) from 15 November 2019. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Antonovich. Please, Your Honor, I understand that there is a need to discuss this bill, so please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Vlasenka, please. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, by supporting the prescribed bill, for it is really directed, including the implementation of a series of international obligations, to which the European Court of Human Rights pointed, but I would like to make a few comments, not to give warnings, but to reason. I just want to remind you why this law was not passed in the previous summons. Sadly, the practice of changing the name, name, and father of the election has become very common with the purpose of creating electoral clones. And this is, unfortunately, an abnormal situation that has developed right in Ukraine. That's why there's an offer. I know that there are now some changes to the Electoral Code, so, by supporting this bill, to mention in the Electoral Code that if a person changed his name, name and father during the year before the elections, it should be mentioned in the electoral bulletin so that we don't have any confusion. Because, I say, we have complete clones, and this just distorts sometimes the results of the election when the name, the name, matches the father. And so the bill is absolutely normal, it needs to be supported in the first reading without reservation. Indeed, he may need some technical work that may take place during the stage of preparation for second reading. So, colleagues, thank you. Please be supportive. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, but please consider our warnings when preparing changes to the Electoral Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u69	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u71	Honcharenko Aleksyyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u72	Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, last year I went to Majorate, and I had a couple of potcherenkos in the county. I think a lot of colleagues know this story, so, of course, by adopting a similar law, at least maybe we need to put it into force, for example, after the local elections. Or make those warnings that colleagues say don't use as black, dirty technology. And on the other hand, of course, this is going to be interesting, because here, indeed, the authorship of the "ministers of the people" is going to be the law on what can be changed for the father. I think it's interesting, because there might be a lot of neighborhoods in the Supreme Council, a few, a large group of Bennetts, for example, Alexander Bianyevich, and maybe even two Alexander Bianyevich. We might have Mikola Velurovich, which is interesting too, and it'll be interesting to see. In the government, we're going to have "outcasts," and that's also interesting, because at last, they're going to be able to represent themselves directly -- "Reaper." And in the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, Irina Wissarionowna, Ivan Edmundovich, you know, just "Edmundic" for the brother-in-laws. And, most importantly, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, perhaps at last, because he feels like Vladimir Vladimirovich, God forbid, not Vladimir Illich. Maybe Vladimir Karantović, although of course much closer to Vladimir Polygraphovich. And in fact, of course, the main thing is not to make Vladimir Rostovich. Thank you. And here, I think it's going to be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u73	The watermelon. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u74	Igor Gus, MP for the Future. Say hello to Alexia "Prashenkovich." Alexy "Poshrenkovich," that can also be a seal. Mutiny! Dear friends, I'd like to cover up a story other than "The Dustmunks" there and other questions. Look, I understand that there are people in this room who are liberal and conservative. This question concerns this very moment. I realize that when a young person reaches the age of 14, he may be able to change his name because, in fact, he did not, as it were, choose the name, and there are different moments. We can say the same thing with our last name. But I want to talk to everyone here. When you have a father, regardless of the circumstances, he is your father. And when I have a father, Vladimir, and tomorrow I want it written that I have a father, Donald or Zbigniew, or someone else, I think it's wrong. We have to consider the position of the European Union, the European courts, but, friends, when we arrive tomorrow and where do we go, when, no matter who your father is, a man can be called Donaldovich in his 20th year and a year later, and so on? This is how we destroy the fundamental Ukrainian traditional approaches. And I don't think this bill is worth supporting, no matter what position. I think if you have a biological father, that's how it's been for decades and hundreds of years, that's how it's supposed to be. So I urge all my colleagues here in this room to abstain or not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u75	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u76	Please give the floor to Alexander Kacny, a supporter of traditional values.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u77	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize, Ducky Alexander Stalinovich. At 14 years of age, was I able to cope, should I leave my father’s name with Stalinovenovich, or should I change it for some reason? How can a child make decisions like that? At the age of 16, you want to allow your child to change his name, his name, and his father’s name. At the age of 14, you want to give her the opportunity to change her father’s name if she does not mind. Dear colleagues, the next step is what's going on in Sweden and Germany today. It's when a kid only makes a decision after 16 years, he's a boy or a girl. And we can actually get to the point where all of the European values that exist in them today, you're going to attach them to us today. So I want to emphasize that the father is the father and that each of us must honor the man who gave us life. And all of these professors at the University of Hmeln, I want to ask that we have other questions today, and we have other problems in the country today to put out these bills for us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u79	Love or Fries? My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u80	Hello, everybody! Love of Dmitri, "Serve of the People", Kharkushina, 177th District. I'll admit that I've been preparing the text, I've been thinking, I'm going to read something, I'm going to say something, but I'm a little upset at what our people in this room say. What I'm saying. If the family is okay, a normal child will never change his father’s mind. But if it did happen that the father did not interfere in any way with the child’s upbringing, and the child, when he became an adult, was 14 years old and wanted to have his father from his father, perhaps not his own father, but the most natural in the world, that’s his right, that’s his choice. And you don't have to take that choice away from the baby. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the right of a natural person to substitute for a father (registration number 2450) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:53]] For 247 Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. (Show by factions) Draft Law on Amendments to Article 127 of the Code on Administrative Offences to Increase the Responsibility of pedestrians for Traffic Violations (Registration No. 2697). It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:38:31]] For 240 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u82	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Your consideration is given to the draft Act amending article 127 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing the Responsibility of pedestrians for Road Traffic Violations. The purpose of the bill is to increase the administrative responsibility of pedestrians who violate traffic rules, including while in a drunken state, and to improve road safety. I realize that raising administrative responsibility is not quite popular. And I ask my colleagues to take a very responsible view of this problem, this subject. I emphasize that not only drivers and passengers but also cyclists and animal drivers and pedestrians are involved. Sometimes the irresponsibility and recklessness of pedestrians lead to terrible consequences. For your information, 2019 - 8,000 612 road accidents with lost and injured pedestrians - 1 thousand 261 pedestrians died, 8 thousand 5 injured. Almost a thousand road accidents with fatalities and injuries were caused by pedestrians. This bill raises the responsibility of pedestrians. So we increase the prevention of the law, we reinforce it. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the committee supported the bill. And I also ask you to support in the first reading and to work for the second reading together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u83	Thank you. I invite you to take the floor of the Deputy Chairman of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Pavel Maxim Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u84	Good day, dear fellows, presiding, presiding! At its meeting on February 12, 2020, a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to increase the liability of pedestrians for traffic violations (registration number 2697) was considered by the Committee on the Protection of Legal Activities to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is, as has been said, to increase the administrative responsibility of pedestrians. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the bill and believes that the results of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. Taking into account what has been said, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences to increase the liability of pedestrians for traffic violations (registration number 2697) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, the faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People" Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, as I reiterate the importance of this subject, I would like to point out that we, too, are a form of caution to pedestrians, we are cleaning up at the time of the violation provided for in article 127 of the Code of Administrative Offences, and we are imposing only a fine that is increasing. So please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ustinova Alexander Yuriyevna, faction of the Political Party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u88	Please pass on the word Klimenko Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u89	Please, Julia Klimenko, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u90	The Voice faction, Klimenko. I'd like to address the citizens of Ukraine first. Road safety is essential. About 3.5 thousand people die on Ukrainian roads each year, killing themselves from various circumstances. Unfortunately, the main reason is the poor infrastructure, the lack of pedestrian crossings, the underground, the construction of bribes, when they release the builders from pedestrian crossings and allow them to make pedestrian crossings anywhere. So the first thing you have to do is consider the safety of citizens by developing infrastructure, not by punishing citizens that they can't cross the road, because the nearest walkway is two kilometers from their village, and then they have to go another two kilometers back. So, honourable citizens, I want you to understand what you're being offered at the moment. Now walkers who have gone wrong or, for example, animal chasers who chase cows on the road, where there is virtually no possibility of another, because in most villages there are no pedestrian crossings, as well as cyclists who are going on the road, will be fined not 51 rubles, but 255 rubies, if we do it again, they will be paying 510 dollars and then 680. I want to tell you: reform the police first, find a normal foreman, release Habakkuk, and then you will be. Build roads and walkways, and then punish the citizens. Thank you. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u92	Mikhailo Cimbaluk. "Paternity." The honourable chairman, the honourable president, present, the honourable author of the bill! If you ask if you need such a bill, you definitely do. Another question, is this the bill that needs to be considered by the Supreme Council during the pandemic and today's economic situation in the state? There is some doubt. Basically. In fact, the growth of road traffic adventures from pedestrians, from those who drive traffic, is clearly increasing, and we have to deal with it. I agree with my colleague that it is necessary for the authorities to create infrastructure so that pedestrians today do not pose a threat. And another question. The fines from 255 bracelets to 680 and/or repairs are increasing. Disabling a warning. Dear authors, and if the pedestrian has violated the traffic rules unintentionally, it does not endanger his life or other road users, why do we deprive the authorized authority of imposing an administrative penalty for the first time? The Fatherland faction is ready to support it in the first reading, and to the second, we demand a return to the standard: for minor first violations, a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u93	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian people, the bill is essentially a temporary bill, but I think it should be considered in a complex. If we're talking about increasing responsibility, it's not. And we're changing the mechanisms, namely, we're excluding the warning; we're using and allowing law enforcement authorities to use that shameful practice about the mechanism of drawing pedestrians to responsibility. So it's not a change of law, it's someone's wish. I don't think an increase in fines will solve this problem. The increase in fines, when everyone knows the mechanism, is open and accessible, and is equal between all road users. The pedestrian is exactly like the driver. But the driver is being trained to obtain a licence and a right to drive. Not in a voluntary order, whether he wants it or not, is a compulsory order. Walkers who do not have a bearing on traffic rules and who do not know any or other nuances about rules may violate them. But how this is going to be, deliberately or recklessly, no one can say the answer. I would also like to remind you that the mechanism remains, namely, the failure of a Ukrainian citizen to carry a document bearing a witness to a person. If there is no document in the pedestrian, the traffic rules are broken, a protocol is made for whom? The person who presented himself from the words? "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support the bill. We are behind complex changes and, in fact, behind an open and transparent mechanism for setting rules between all participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Still willing to speak out of motives are there? A lube? No, it's not. The "minister of the people" was. I see, Alekseyev. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. After that, Alekseus. After that, Anton Yuriovich Heratchenko. And let's go to the vote. Turn the lube on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u96	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote and support the logic of adopting this bill. Let me draw your attention to the conclusion of the GNEU: we take the basis, we vote in the first reading. There are a number of comments that we can easily correct to the second reading. But of course, logic: All road users, including pedestrians, must be equal, including equal, and responsible for violating traffic rules. That's why we see it perfectly logical to bring this standard to. If a greater responsibility, such as an accident caused by a pedestrian, he should be responsible for such an accident. That's why we vote yes. And we urge everyone to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, let's be honest, the mechanism for the responsibility of pedestrians to violate traffic rules does not work at all. Who have recently been fined by pedestrians for violating traffic regulations? Yes, the bill is not perfect, but the faction "European Solidarity" will support it in the first reading, and the second reading will be subject to certain amendments. But we have to raise a legal culture to follow traffic rules before the next generation. We really have to agree with a colleague from Voice who needs to be in the complex to look at this issue and raise infrastructure, but now it's a matter of increasing responsibility and putting in place a specific mechanism to hold us responsible so that we don't have such crazy statistics on road deaths. Thank you for your attention. The European Solidarity faction will be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u99	Thank you. I will now give the floor to Deputy Minister Geraszczenko Anton Yuriovich. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Anton Yuriovich. Turn on the microphone, please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u100	Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, 3,000 454 citizens were killed on Ukraine's roads, some 1.6 of them being pedestrians. Sadly, in our country, citizens, especially pedestrians, do not see it necessary to follow traffic rules. That is why we offered to raise a fine for pedestrians along with the people’s deputies in order for them to be responsible, and the police officers first warned them. And if they're malicious traffic violations that lead to road accidents or accidents, the fine should be increased to 255 dollars. In European countries, these fines are even higher. I believe that you and I have done as we are in Norway in Oslo, where only one person, in general, died in a five - year - old town last year. Without increased responsibility, without increased quality of police work, we can't do that. Along with increasing road infrastructure. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 127 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of the Responsibility of pedestrians for Violations of Road Traffic Regulations (Registration No. 2697). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:22]] For 277 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by pedestrians (registration number 2694). It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:53:56]] For 240 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u102	The Honourable Chairman, your colleagues, is proposing a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by pedestrians (registration number 2694). The purpose of the bill is to ensure the safety of pedestrians who are in the dark part of the day on the road, on the street, through the use of light - return elements such as tape, sticker, vest, and as a result of the reduction in pedestrian accidents. This legislative initiative is quite relevant. According to statistics, about a third of road accidents occur in pedestrians. We discussed this bill very quickly at the committee meeting, and for the second reading, we are necessarily correcting it according to both the requirements and the observations observed by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And so we can clearly see that these strips are elementary, which can be worn by walkers at dark times or when they're not visible when they can be put on a child and when the car moves, and they can. We can see such a pedestrian in advance, and the driver can take certain measures for braking, and so there is no road accident. The Committee on Law Enforcement supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council approve it in the first reading. Please support and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Committee position. Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Pavluk Maksim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The Committee on Law Protection for the Implementation of the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council on February 12, 2020, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by pedestrians. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the bill and believes that it can be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the use of light-return elements by pedestrians (registration number 2694) proposes to support and vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? We can vote, and we can take a break. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, either with or without discussion. Because for a minute, that's not gonna happen either. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by pedestrians (registration number 2694). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:52]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please prepare for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We continue our work. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats more quickly. I remind you, we're starting work at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by road users (registration number 2696) is being considered. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:43:15.]] For 211 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u109	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! From pedestrian safety to safety, drivers and passengers as well as workers who provide highway construction. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the safety of drivers and passengers who are in the dark part of the day on the side of the road, the street outside the vehicle, through the use of clothing on which light - return elements are applied: tape, sticker, vest. Bills are set up. is proposed to establish the following responsibilities. For officials responsible for the construction, reconstruction, repair, operation, and installation of roads, streets, and railways, bridges, travel, other facilities, and the provision of special vests with light - return elements. For motorbike drivers and passengers, it is not just in a blocked motorcycle but in a buttoned - up motorcycle with light - turning elements. For all drivers of vehicles, stay in dark times or under conditions of lack of visibility on the side of the road, street outside the vehicle in a special vest with light - turning elements. Similarly, to ensure that this requirement is met by passengers of a vehicle when such passengers have left the vehicle and are on the roadside. Appropriately, cyclists and cyclists will be obliged to use light - return elements, such as ribbons, vests, stickers, and dark weather. Dear colleagues, we must take a very responsible view of this issue as well. This is the life of our citizens with you, and we must protect them with you. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u110	Thank you. I give the floor to the deputy chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement to Maxim Vasilovich Pavluk. Please, Maxime Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. A committee on law enforcement to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on February 12, 2020, discussed a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by road users (register No. 2696). The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the bill and believes that the results of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. In accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is that right? I don't see what factions and groups want to discuss? Yes. So please sign in: two for, two for, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u113	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u114	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please give the word to Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u115	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I believe most of you are in charge of transport. And unfortunately, we know that we have most of the roads outside the city, especially not enlightened, without lighting. And we don't see any pedestrians or drivers standing on the sidelines, and a man comes out of the car, motorcycles, cyclists. And because of that, we also have crazy statistics -- thousands of people killed on the roads. We're on the road, as in war, unfortunately. So I think it's the right bill. In most parts of the world, in all the civilized countries of the world, there's already a rule -- wearing light-revolving elements on clothes, wearing motorcycle helmets, and even when a person gets out of a car as a driver. So the faction "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u118	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we spoke very fruitfully on the Committee on Law Enforcement before taking the floor. The GNEU’s observation will be taken into account accordingly. And I want to point out that the use of light-return elements, such as drivers and passengers, we've talked about, will be used outside of populated locations, right on highways and routes, when, for example, a car breaks down and stands on a highway, where there's a large crowd of motor vehicles moving at a high speed, where there's a potential threat to the life and health of people who have left the vehicle and are located right outside of that vehicle. So I ask everyone to join the process of communication and drafting the bill and to support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u119	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine Slavicka Antonina Kerimovna, Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Excuse me, Mother Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that you have all opened for yourself yesterday's agenda and today's agenda. Yesterday's agenda was four bills, and today's is three, because the main bill that didn't support the hall was just forgotten. Today, we are considering a third bill that will talk about the responsibility of passengers. I would like to point out that the first bill that was put into our room, supported in the first reading, is an increase in responsibility, an increase in fines on passengers in an existing, old documentation mechanism. The second bill -- unfortunately, they didn't come forward under the Rules -- he says that every driver and road user has to buy those items at their expense, those things that are not known to be released, produced in order to create and ensure their safety. These are the tapes. But you have to remember, 10 years ago this story existed. These conclusions have not been drawn by anyone, but we use very simple methodologies, that everything is new, is well forgotten. "The opposition platform for life" will not support it, including in order to force the purchase of these things, to use them, and the state on its side has nothing to do with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u121	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u122	Please. Scum, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u123	Alona Ivanovna Shkrum. Wait a minute. Anyone else would like to make a statement on this matter? No, the "Serial of the People" Party made a speech, too, "The Voice." Oh, no? Wait. "The Voice" is no. "The Voice" is a motive, "The Trust" is a motive. Okay. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u124	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, and this bill, and the previous one, in fact, about the same things. These bills say that we have to force citizens of our state: passengers, drivers, mopeds, cyclists, and even animals that they use, animal chasers, to buy light-sick vests for their own money, stickers, some tapes and use them always in the dark times of the day. If they do not, and at their own expense, will not be able to buy fast ribbons, vests, or stickers, they will pay the fine. First, they will receive punishment from the police, and then they will pay the fine. Now, colleagues, you know, it's the right idea, but I'm outraged by philosophy. Because, in fact, the daily routine we have usually in recent years all the time fines, punishments, humiliations of the FOPs, how to take more taxes from the poor already in the population, how to make them pay more for their own money, how to collect fines for not being able to buy themselves ribbons or stickers, and not even know where to buy them. So, colleagues, these things have to be decided differently. We are not currently reforming transportation infrastructure in the village or in the village. We don't make the sidewalks normal. You don't allow people to use walking zones. From one village to another, you can't go any different than on the other side of the road. At the same time, you make them wear special vests, buy them. And if they don't, you're going to take the fines and get the money into the budget. That's not how you do it, colleagues. And as this is to be done, I've been talking about this in public today, and I'm going to keep talking about it, and this is suggested by the Fatherland faction, we have to do this: the first -- the information company, the second -- the normal state company with the government. For example, for at least 10 million people living in rural and urban areas, buying these stickers from a Ukrainian manufacturer, they don't cost much, they don't give them to people. And it's only six months from now to set fines. So we're going to stand up for the right, normal relationship with Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u125	Thank you. By "Trust" who? The great Sergey Anatolyovich. And then there's Voice. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. He's a great man. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u126	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Dear colleagues, statistics speak for themselves. Last year, an estimated 3,000,400 people were killed in an accident by Deputy Minister Anton Gerashchenko. Another 32 thousand 700 were injured. In general, there were 160,000 accidents on Ukrainian roads. I want to talk about the following data separately. The largest car accidents were registered in December, and the death toll was the largest in September. The peak of the emergency is 17 hours, that is, those months when it gets darker very early and the visibility gets worse. Moreover, world practice confirms the need for light reflectors. According to scientific research, this reduces the risk of pedestrians walking six and a half times. In Lithuania, for example, two and a half years after the changes in traffic regulations, the number of pedestrians killed fell by two and a half times. That's why the "Trust" MP group will support this bill. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, despite our enormous claims to the National Police and the quality of transport infrastructure in Ukraine, we believe that this bill is indeed designed to create conditions for ensuring the life and health of road users and to increase the level of safety. These are the rules that exist in the entire civilized world. They save lives. So this is what we have to do in Ukraine. There are some flaws in the bill that can be corrected for second reading, but as an idea we will definitely support it and in the first reading we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. In conclusion, I give the floor to Deputy Minister of Interior Heratchenko Anton Juriovich. And we vote. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is designed to enforce the rules of road traffic. Now they say that those who work on the road at night, or drivers, should use vests with light reflective elements, but there is no punishment. Now, this light-reflecting vest costs 50 or 60 bucks in the store. But if one does not wear light - reflective elements, others will be killed. A person’s life costs more. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of light-return elements by road users (registration number 2696). Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:57:07]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Show by factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Decree on the appointment of representatives to a competitive commission to elect candidates for the post of Head of the National Agency for the Identification, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (Registration No. 3454). It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:57:55]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the committee. Excuse me, the word for the report is given to Shinkarenk Ivan Anatoliyovich, head of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u132	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies. Good day, chairman. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy at its meeting on March 12th, 20th, considered the appointment of representatives from the Supreme Council to a competitive commission for the selection of candidates for the Head of the National Agency for the Identification, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes. Taking into account the proposals made by the Committee, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that representatives of the Supreme Council be appointed by the Supreme Council to form a competitive commission from the selection of the head of the National Agency for the Identification, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes, the following candidates: She's a sister-in-law of Zechariah, Sekel Ruslan, Shadreen Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, dear friends! The MP's Party for the Future. You know, when we got this draft decree on the appointment of representatives to a competitive commission for the election of candidates for the head of the National Agency for Identification, Search and Management of Assets obtained by Crime, it seemed to me that Parliament did not respect itself. First of all, we understand that there are a lot of warnings to the ARMA, especially to me, as the Lvivian deputy major, because it was the ARMA that actually led to the technological catastrophe of the heating season in two cities of district importance in Lviv: the city of New Division and the city of Novoyavorysk. And in fact, together with the government and Naftogazu Ukraine, we saved this situation. And, thank God, they saved us by introducing the actual direct administration of the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine. But it was the ARMA that used these assets so inefficiently that it proved to be. deepened this catastrophe. We need to get our representatives in there. But who are we proposing, my friends? As Kozma Prutkov said, we should look at the root. What do we see? We see one representative (I'm not going to call them names not to make them pierra) who is the manager of an enterprise whose beneficiary owners also own businesses that are in the ARMA administration. The second representative, who spent about 10 political parties and technology projects over the last 15-20 years there, from far left to far right, and in general became entangled in his ideological preferences. The third representative was a lawyer for ex-Mer.Slovakia Nelly Stepa, ex-Deputy of the Savchenko Hope, Vladislav Manger in the case of Catherine Hanszük and others, including Kharkiv terrorists and ex-Leader of the Kharkiv Communists. Friends, let's respect ourselves and take seriously whom we offer in such important, serious institutions as ARMA, otherwise, I think Parliament is seriously undermining its authority in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u135	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u136	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you and I see, again, we are choosing representatives to take the lead of a very important body. I think a lot of the TV people are thinking, what's the ARMA, what's it all about? And this is an agency that now owns tens of billions of dollars. All the ministries that are in the government, they say they're smoking because it's actually hard to compare with the ARMA, it's an extremely important agency. And who should choose its leaders? We've already seen how we were offered by the D.B.I.: "Go to your own way." They're all "ministers of the people" from there, "ministers of the people" from there. And here's the people's servants. We're seeing the same thing right now from the ARMA. We are offered a number of people: a person who is a helper was an assistant to the national deputy, Ivanisov. It's the same one who was sitting for raping a minor who went from "Serve of the People" to the Supreme Council, and now we have disgrace in the whole world, because in no other European country is a rapist sitting in the Supreme Council or the Parliament of the country. Now, let's give his assistant a very important role. Who else do we have? We have a lawyer who was actually protecting Nadia Savchenko, who was a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who voted in favour of the annexation of Crimea, simply a traitor to the Fatherland, a man who protected Stepa, a man who protected Vladislav Manger in the case of Catherine Hanszük. Are you even making fun of us? And the third person is a man who's been to the Supreme Council five times. I have a simple question: is that what, people who don't have political involvement? Stop your quarterly human resources logic! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u137	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u139	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u140	Colleagues, counsel always protects someone, he's got this job, and a bunch of international documents won't allow him to identify a lawyer with his clients. It's on the one side. But on the other hand, there's a completely clear conflict of interest here, because the people who are going to protect those people who are going to have assets confiscated are now going to choose the director of the agency that manages these confiscated assets. There is a direct conflict of interest. All three of the colleagues offered are all practitioners or lawyers, or lawyers, who deal, including those involved in confiscating possible illegally acquired assets. Therefore, it is not possible to vote for these people. But there is an even deeper question. Let's talk about what the ARMA is. ARMA is an agency that carries out a series of completely unconstitutional functions, including the ARMA can, under the law in force before the judgment of the court, yes, by acquittal, but before the judgment of the court, implement the property of a person who has not yet been declared corrupt or criminal or criminal. So maybe instead of now choosing the people involved who can choose the director of the ARMA, maybe we better talk about the ARMA reform system, about cleaning it up of invalid, ineligible powers, about creating a real state agency that manages confiscated property, but not exactly creating additional corruption functions? I just want to remind you that in the last six months, the ARMA's active will be shaken by corruption scandals. This involves not only the personality of those who led the ARMA, but also the ARMA system that was built. So I have an offer: to reject this draft decree -- once, and let's change the ARMU Act -- two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u141	Thank you. Are they still willing to make a statement? Osadchuk. No, there was a performance from "The Servant of the People." Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction has carefully studied the draft of this decree. And we say that all the candidates that we are now offered for approval are not in line with the principles of integrity, transparency and political neutrality. This is totally unacceptable, and this is a distortion of the very idea of holding this competition. That's why the Voice faction will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance on the appointment of representatives to a competitive commission to elect a candidate for the post of Head of the National Agency for the purpose of detecting, searching and managing assets derived from corruption and other crimes. Please vote. [[13:08:01]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the report of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans in six months. Zinkevich Jan Volodymyrna reports - head, Vadimovna, sorry, temporary special commission. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Status of War Veterans, was formed by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 2, 19th. It is composed of Ukrainian national deputies from all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation. The purpose of the Commission’s work is to improve effective legislation on the legal status of war veterans, including their social protection, including the need to carry out work aimed at strengthening the care of our defenders and creating the right conditions for ensuring the livelihood of war veterans. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Social Policy, there are 1 million 22,000 war veterans in Ukraine. The Supreme Council is expected to offer a new approach to the renewal of the state support system for veterans. The present problems of war veterans can be found in the report of the TSK, which was prepared and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first priority for Parliament for 2020 is the adoption of a new Law on the Status of Veterans and Members of Families of the Dead (Dead) Veterans. It should finally address the issue of status and update the state support system for veterans according to their needs. With regard to the protection of the rights of valid military personnel, it is necessary to settle the issue of leave during a special period, to pay once-in-one financial assistance to persons with disabilities as a result of war, to put in place effective mechanisms for the implementation by military personnel of their electoral rights, and so forth. To address the above and other issues, the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established two working groups with the aim of drafting a bill to implement the Constitutional Court decision of 18 December 18: the issue of social protection of war veterans and their families and the settlement of the question of the establishment of disability groups for military personnel and war veterans. A working group aimed at drafting a bill to implement the Constitutional Court's decision was held with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, trade unions, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights and a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, on the restoration of benefits in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill and its implementation will enable the implementation of Constitutional Court decision No. 12/ 2018 on the social support of the participants in the war, members of their families, persons who have special merit before the Father, by restoring their right to free travel and receiving benefits without taking into account their income. Another problem is the continued functioning of war veterans during the second phase of medical reform. The temporary special commission introduced to Parliament a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on non-stopping the operation of war veterans'hospitals during the second phase of medical reform (registration number 3235) (from 20.03.2020), recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine postpone the participation of war veterans in the transition to a new funding system through the National Health Service of Ukraine for a period of 1 year and preserve the financing of hospitals for war veterans by transferring subsidies from the state budget through the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Our commission intends to continue the work of all the working groups created and continue to work with the Ministry of Profiles, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committees of the Supreme Council to protect the rights of veterans, their families and their families. We hope that the issue of the support of veterans will unite Parliament and that appropriate decisions to protect our defenders will be approved in the unity of all factions. I now ask you, Your Honor, to support the work of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans and to approve the report on our work for six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Jan Vadimovna. Dear colleagues, this is an interim report in six months of activity. I suggest we vote it out. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans in six months of activity (registration number 3252). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:13:58]] For 293 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, the next two issues of the agenda are ratifications. I propose that they be voted on without discussion. Is there any objection? So let's think about it in the end. Either let's vote, or let's move it to the end. Because here the next question is the Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of children and orphans and many other things. Either let's end it, or we can vote them out. Will everyone be ready without discussion? Let's put it this way: 0035 is now, 0037 is then the end of the agenda. If we come, we'll look. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. The Voice faction, let's both go for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's put one in. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road for Electronic consignment note (register No. 0035). Please support and vote. [[13:15:57]] For 326 Decision taken. Question 0037 we're moving to the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they insist on discussing it. Voice. [[B in m in s a l in]] And if I give 2 minutes to Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrovsky, she'll act -- and we vote, no objections? Next question is 0037. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Two minutes. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, you just don't know what you're voting for. This is the ratification of the Treaty with the Republic of Belarus on readmission. Has anyone read this document at all? Did anyone think of our relationship with the Republic of Belarus today? I recall that since 2014, Belarus has not supported any of our resolutions, either concerning Crimea or occupation or east and so on and so forth. And I will also remind you that the son of the border guard Paul Grib was present in the Russian Federation for 3 or 4 years because of his arrival in the city of Gomel, and he continued to be imprisoned in the Russian Federation. This is the second moment. Third. Has anyone read the GNEW’s conclusions? And GNEU does not write about any Belarusian illegal migrant who comes to Ukraine because it is mostly activists or political opponents who are going to Ukraine because they are looking for opportunities to live or work here. Dear colleagues, you can understand that this question is politically sensitive and sensitive, and it's not accepted without discussion, and it's not brought into the room in the district, as is done today with all the other bills? I'm going to ask you to hold on, transfer it to the discussion and get back to the discussion a lot later, not now, this season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Samantha Anatolyevna, I think that the national MPs all had the opportunity to read this decree and to determine whether to support or not, is also the right of every national MP. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft law on: Dear colleagues, how about a little quieter? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on readmission (Registration No. 0037). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:18:48]] For 271 Decision taken. Show by factions. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care to increase the amount of scholarship and annual assistance. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:19:29]] For 246 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Golovo, the honourable president, honourable colleagues, the 2013 bill proposes to increase scholarships for orphans and children deprived of parental care, because today such scholarships are paid on the basis of a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers: Decree No. 1047 of December 28, 2106. It is this determination that the scholarships for students or children who attend vocational and technical schools are set at 1 thousand and 180 a month, and the students of higher education at 2 thousand and 360. Despite inflationary processes, the size of these scholarships has not been reviewed since November 2017. The bill proposes to increase more than 50 percent. They're less than the real cost of living. And we propose to raise the level of help for these children, despite the fact that there is a certain position of the Ministry today. The government also approves the amount of social scholarships of at least 150 percent of the average living minimum per person. There is a GNEU remark, and we agree with it, and we are ready to work on the second reading. I thank the head of the committee, Mr. Alexander Tkachenka, and the members of the committee who supported him in considering this bill. I ask the deputies to vote and accept it in the first reading and on the basis. For the second reading, we will work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u149	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Ryabusi Tetjani Vasilovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy reviewed the draft registration number 2013 at its meeting on February 12, this year. As has already been said, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care, which is proposed: first, to increase to 150 per cent of the living minimum by an average of one person the amount of social scholarship for orphans and children deprived of parental care; secondly, to establish at least three months of social scholarships, which are assigned to such children, annual assistance for the acquisition of educational literature by them. The committee certainly supports the idea of a bill aimed at improving the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. At the same time, the Committee agreed with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budget Affairs on the need for its technical and legal development. It also needs a solution to the issue of receiving a social scholarship for orphans and children deprived of parental care who are trained in all higher education institutions irrespective of their known subordination. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 2013 to adopt as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u151	Thank you, Aunt Vasily. Dear colleagues, please sign up: Two for, two for, and two for, the factions for the performance. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u152	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I thank you once again for supporting this bill by the Committee of Social Policy. And I would like to stress once again that this bill also provides that the extent of assistance to children who are orphans or deprived of parental care is allocated the cost of acquiring educational literature at least three social scholarships. This is also support for these categories of citizens. Next. It's very important that this position, which was expressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, is to specify which minimum of living is used in the establishment of such a scholarship. We don't deny that, in order to determine the size of a social scholarship, there is not an average subsistence minimum per person, as provided for in our bill, but a corresponding subsistence minimum for children under the age of 18 and above, and who are under the age of 18 and who are students of higher education or students of vocational and technical schools. Next thing. It is very important that at a time when inflation is increasing, especially now, at a time when the state is quarantined, that these categories of citizens, namely families, children of these categories are either in family-type children's homes, or in boarding schools that are in the reform phase, or under the care of those who have these powers, have experienced the real support of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u153	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u154	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please give me the word of Grandichovich Mikolli.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u155	Excuse me, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, you know, we are in such a situation right now that children are somehow out of the public eye, and this bill is designed to make the very vulnerable category of children -- children of orphans -- be supported by the state. That's why "European Solidarity" will support this bill and vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this bill, it is timely and necessary. At the same time, we would like to pay attention to a number of other circumstances that can be addressed in the bill, which we have worked out for a second reading. Because part of orphans, children deprived of parental care, who are trained in higher education institutions, not the education system of the Ministry of Education, but, for example, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Executive Service, the Ministry of Education, are actually being discredited today. As an example, I was approached by one of the students at the University of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Eugene, who is learning and who is receiving money, because in these colleges it's not a scholarship, it's a cash security that's worth 208 dollars a month and it hasn't been up since 2007. This child, an orphan child who was deprived of parental care, won the trial and achieved the assignment of state aid to a person who is not entitled to a pension in connection with the loss of a caregiver. And what you think is that this university has given guidance to a social worker that this child is on full state security and that these costs are counted into college, and so today this Eugene is paying for his education, the only student who pays for his education as an orphan child. That's why we fully support this legislative initiative, and I hope they hear us both in the Ministry of Justice and in other universities and change their orders because they are today discrediting orphans with their orders. And we will legally help them to do so so that there are no similar situations of discrimination against children in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u159	Thank you. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u160	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. An extremely important bill, and as a majority MP, and as a member of our group, like all majors working in the districts, I know how important this problem is. Because we constantly receive requests from such institutions where children are deprived of parental care. Of course, there is nothing to replace parental care, and it is not possible to do so in any state, but it is imperative that we maintain that basic conditions for such children. And the measures proposed in this bill are extremely important and relevant, and it has long been necessary to do so. So we're going to support this bill because these kids need attention, these kids need basic conditions, because it's our duty to do that. So the Trust MPs will support this bill, and we ask our colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? No, it's not. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care to increase the amount of scholarship and annual assistance. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:31:15]] For 337 Decision taken. Hello. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, on the resolution of human resources issues concerning the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 78 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I entrust the relevant committees to consider today's submission of the Prime Minister at their meetings and to draw conclusions on them for possible consideration of these issues at tomorrow's plenary meeting. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of higher education museums (registration number 2588). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:32:27]] For 239. Decision taken. The word is given to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Irina Miroslavovni. Give me four minutes, because it's both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u162	Irina Konstanovic, Party for the Future. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by a bill to regulate the activities of museums in higher education institutions. There are currently more than 160 museums in Ukraine. These museums have a long tradition, a decade, or a century old. These museums are visited not only by their educational institutions but also by Ukraine or the country. For example. I could count for a long time these museums, which are in the structure of Kiev’s Politics, Kharkiv Politechnics, Eastern European University of the Forest of Ukraine, Ostrov Academy, Shevchenka University, and many others. But it has happened that in the current legislation, museums are not included and are not included in the Higher Education Act as structural units, because there is a library, there are agrobiostations, there are observatories, and there are no museums. By the way, what we're saying is that the Education Act is for secondary education, for vocational education, and for higher education, the issue is still open. The second is that museum staff have unfortunately no scientific, scientific and pedagogical status, and this discriminates to some extent. That's why we're proposing to make changes, first of all, to the Higher Education Act, which provides for higher education institutions as separate structural units of museums, as well as to give them the status of scientific and pedagogical workers. And the second sentence, as a standard, is for the Museums and Museums Act. We're proposing a technical change, because there's an old term for higher education, and now we have new legislation. So please support this bill. And for the second reading, we must make adjustments and respond to the comments we have from the NEUW and the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, can you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? Can we vote without discussion? Mikola Leonidovich, just. Two factions, right? Okay. Then sign up: two in, two in, two in. Rubleov Vjacheslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. I think it's important to society and to the community. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u166	Mr. Chairman, did you ask me if a discussion was necessary? Discussion is necessary. And the faction "European Solidarity" today will also initiate it at our committee meeting. We need to discuss what is happening in our museums. We saw a terrible situation when the decision of the court totally illegally liberated the director of the Odessa Museum, who was elected, Mr. Roittburd, who was elected on competitive grounds. We see that, contrary to the museum's instructions, DBR employees break into John Potter's museum, actually remove items from there without a court decision, without any reason pushing the director, not allowing people and putting both the responsibility and the fund-keeper and the funds themselves at risk. We are now treating our museums as, in fact, not really national acquisitions, but as private institutions or bureaucrats doing what they want, or investigating bodies that do not protect them, even though the police are supposed to protect them, or as property of some regional princes and queens. This bill will be supported by our faction. This bill changes really to the law that applies to museums. But we're going to initiate additional changes that will protect museum workers, make their salaries worthwhile and prevent them from interfering with their activities without a court order to investigate, and punish those who do so, as was done at the Gonchar Museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u167	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u168	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is worth supporting, and "The Fatherland" will support. And what I'm saying right now is that we're legitimizing the existing practice when there are museums in higher education institutions. They need to be legitimized and amended today by the Higher Education Act, and directly expand the status of a science teacher directly to museum personnel. It's worth it. It's also worth changing the budget for librarians, for the benefit of culture, for the direct benefit of museum workers, directors, science teachers. I want to remind you, colleagues, Timoshenko's government is the only one in years of independence who, for example, has raised librarian wages by 70 percent. Timoshenko’s government is the only one that has granted status to many libraries, including the agricultural library, as a national one. And I'd like this majority to be directly involved not only with technical bills or lobby bills, but we really would be looking at the budget for these people, because these people are keeping a cultural fund. These people are keeping our inheritance. These people keep history. And it's important that they get a decent salary. Colleagues, we've got people on board who haven't worked and built any booths, they get 500,000 dollars, and the person who works for the average worker somewhere on the Crucible gets 5,000 or 7,000 dollars. Librarians have the same work plan as all museum employees. Let's make changes to the budget, to budget legislation, to raise these people's wages, and that's one of the elements of our social assistance to these people and workers. They have great gratitude and great respect. And I thank the authors for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u169	Thank you. Endnote speech, then we go to the vote, right? "The Voice," Sowsun I see. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, are you? Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u170	Pauline Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u171	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u172	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, there is no doubt an important bill to raise the status and support of museum workers, although this is an indirect way to raise real wages today and to enhance the prestige of those who are currently holding and working in museums. It's a search for compromise that's comparable to science and education workers, to, at least, solve the problems that these people face in their work. Although this is a slight increase, rather, it is a request that we care and want to help those who work in museums today. We are convinced that it is necessary to adopt systemic decisions that people understand, that people have actually received from them and a salary that would allow them to live fully, to provide for their families, and at the same time to develop a museum. We have huge acquisitions, huge treasures that are unknown in most of our country. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that, in every category of people who work today, we have an honest policy, a policy that allows these people to get full pay, and we are not looking for different ways to fulfil our duty to those people who work for the interests of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the Voice Party will support this bill. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this bill is not systematic. The bill proposes to solve the problem of museums. Yeah, that's what we need, we need to solve this problem. But we need to understand that this problem arises because of a more global problem. In Ukraine universities remain budgetary institutions. It is because of this status of the budgetary institution that universities are forced to beg for every amendment, every change, every innovation they want to make or support, to be made through the Parliamentary Hall. It's an abnormal situation. Believe me, in the legislation of any country, such minor matters are not regulated by legislation. This is a question of university autonomy. And we need to go back to the discussion on university autonomy. I very much hope that when we finally get the Minister of Education in this country, we will return to this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u175	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I'll bet you a vote. Invite people's deputies. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of higher education museums. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:05]] For 331 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine (referring to MPs) (registration number 3157). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:44:35]] For 252 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stepi Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u176	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine (referring to MPs) (registration number 3157) (registration number 3157) (from March 3, 2020). The authors of this bill are, in addition to me, a colleague from the Digital Transformation Committee, Mikhailo Kryachko, Roman Soha, Alexander Fedienko, as well as other Ukrainian national deputies. The bill called for the extension of the right of a national deputy to appeal to the authorities of the State, local self-government, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, including in electronic form. The proposed legislative changes will contribute to a more rapid, qualitative and objective consideration of parliamentary appeals. In order to achieve the goal, it is proposed to complete part one and fourth of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" with new positions, which provide for the possibility of sending an e-mail and receiving a reply in electronic form as well. In addition, part three of article 16 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" is amended to refer to the term of the national MP's report on the examination of his appeal. The bill provides that the national MP should be informed of the consideration of his appeal three days before the appropriate date. In addition, e - mail calls and answers, including electronic document processing, will significantly increase the rate of reaction to citizens’ appeals and simplify the processing of information. In the context of quarantine caused by COPID-2019’s coronary disease, national MPs began to actively use the electronic form of the MP’s appeal, so it is appropriate to enforce it legislatively. And I'm going to say separately that during the consideration of the bill, some constructive comments were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Offices, the National Deputies and the Rules Committee. All of these will be taken into account when preparing the bill for the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u177	The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u178	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed draft Law 3157, which proposed amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy on the Exercise of the Right of Deputies, the submission by the People's Deputies of petitions in paper or electronic form. In conclusion, the committee noted that by means of an electronic documenting system implemented in Parliament, MPs have the opportunity to exercise their right to a parliamentary appeal not only in paper form but also in electronic form. And given the statistics on the sending of parliamentary appeals by electronic means, these changes are quite appropriate. At the same time, the individual provisions of the bill, according to the committee, should be set out in a different edition, including taking into account the provisions of legislation on electronic documents, electronic documentation, the provisions of the Rules which define the characteristics of documentation, as indicated both in the conclusions of the committee and in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The committee also noted that, under article 24 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, the MP was obliged to use the MP’s form only for official requests, referrals and self - signed letters, which required appropriate changes to article 24. Amendments to the individual articles of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, which are necessary in connection with the introduction into the work of an electronic documentor, may be considered at the stage of making proposals to this bill during its preparation for the second reading and as provided for in the provisions of part one of article 116 of the Rules. On the basis of this, the committee decided to recommend to Parliament that the bill should be adopted on the basis of the comments made in the Committee's conclusions and in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u179	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is discussion necessary? Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Nina Petrovna. And "The Opposition Platform for Life," if I'm not mistaken, offered to discuss it. Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u181	Frolov Paul Valerijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, Paul Froll, the "Serve of the People" faction. I thank the authors for this bill because it is another step towards digitizing our state and translating paperwork into paperless form, saving resources into mail and ensuring greater transparency in the activities of all public authorities. This project foresees the possibility of sending an e-mail or e-mail to the MP, offering only an electronic reply, without paper, and obliging the MP to inform him of the time and place of the hearing not later than 1 day, but at least 3 days before the day of consideration; it requires that the paper be sent to the MP and the electronic version on the day of dispatch, and that it should not give an answer, which is motivated. Part of this bill has already been implemented by the Supreme Council. Let me remind you that we copied a quarter of the Rules and translated Parliament's documentation into electronic form. And we're ready for the coronavirus pandemic and to work in an open format. I want to tell all the MPs that only over 25,000 documents were created in the SEDO system in May, 225 bills are registered exclusively in electronic format, and 28 tables for second reading are also processed in committees. I'm asking you to support this bill. And I'm going to remind you that from now on, there's a rule that the signing of an electronic document takes up to three working days. And work is being done to reflect the signatures of all the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u183	Paul Valeriyovich, when you praise the Bill of Amendments to the Rules, this bill does not add. Please, Vjatrović Volodymyr Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u184	Please give the word to Nina Petrovni of the South.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u185	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I would still like to support the head of a committee of profile, which said very clearly that nothing new to this bill contains. Indeed, the mechanisms for the exercise of the right of a national deputy to appeal to the authorities of the State, local self - government, businesses, and organizations of all forms of property are being modernized. That's true. But we already have, and we've all felt it in ourselves, there's a constant practice, and it's that the form of the answer corresponds to the form of the reference. The only thing that needs to be added in this bill is that if there was an electronic address, the MP may be asked to send an answer to the request in paper form. Everything else is regulated by existing standards and by the constant practice that we have in Ukraine. But I would like to address you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. You know that the biggest problem is that, especially at the time of the ninth call, the ninth call, it's the filing of receipts by the authorities. And that's how full the information is, whether it's true or full, there's no one to work with. Because under the Code of Laws on Administrative Offences, a person should be authorized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Authority Control Department, which sets out protocols for drawing on administrative responsibility. So I've come to this person for a few months, and this person has no special rights. So I suggest that the second reading be followed by changes to article 17, where the standard for examining the answer regarding its completeness and truthfulness will be laid down. And this is the right of the national MP to do so with this person. Only then will the status of the national MP be raised. Only then will the answers come true and accurate, and they will fear responsibility for providing this information. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u187	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Larissa Mikolayevna. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support Mrs. Jujanina. What I'm saying is, aside from what we're really implementing, what we're already working for, and this is the electronic form and the queries and the queries and the answers, there's still a clarification that needs to be answered by the deputy, motivated and essentially. I want to say that as a senior deputy, I've sent about 350 calls for my cadence, and I want to say that when I analyzed them, I saw that about 10 percent actually have motivated, normal answers to the questions of the people who are talking to us. 90 percent is just write-offs. I want to tell you, this is an example. Here's our address, our Winnitzkin MFF, which is nine deputies signed here. Mr. Raduccik, by the way, also called on the Ministry of Health to investigate the infection of doctors in the Kalinian hospital. There is a clear question, very clearly, that we need to form an independent composition of a commission that would involve epidemiologists to do a test; to work closely to establish contacts between infected medical personnel; to investigate effectiveness; and, above all, to provide the official composition of the ILO commission and the documentary results of the examination. The committee was set up on this point. Do you think even one question has been answered? Elementally give the official composition of the ILO commission -- and we have, and we haven't even given it. They told me about the state of the bed fund, how sick it was, and that it was very small, not 30 percent, but the total number of doctors, they told us all about the HlV, but they didn't answer any questions. I think it's unacceptable at all, and it's now the normal practice of the government to apply to the minister of justice -- a month we don't have an answer to these references. So I hope that this bill will give us the opportunity to at least have really motivated and, in fact, answers, to see how this particular government will react.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u189	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u190	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine would seem so simple in their content, by law, but I draw your attention to the fact that we need to talk very seriously about the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the status of a parliamentary appeal, the question of a deputy. And I support our colleagues from other factions who point out that more than 90 percent are simple discounts. If we look at the history of MPs in general, it would seem that, at the start of the parliamentary appeal, the MP is signing himself, because he is a representative of the Ukrainian people, and the authority of the state, the local self-government of other businesses, institutions and organizations are obliged to give a reasoned answer within 10 days. In fact, it's completely different. They've elevated their status: the MP's request is announced in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. a declaration of appeal, and the answer should be given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It would seem that the status of what you are giving not only to the Ukrainian national deputy but to the Supreme Council of Ukraine would have been the responsibility of officials to raise, but it does not really work out that way. And that's the main problem. You could write that the answer should be the form in which the conversion, you could write it in electronic form, you could write it in oral form, you could write it in oral form, you could write it in oral form, you could have the answer, but that's not the problem today. The problem is, in general, that we need to increase the responsibility of those officials who give a write-off to the Ukrainian National Deputies. We need to take the minister a few times, call him here, or the Prime Minister, and take him right here and release him for his formal receipts and answers. Only then will they have some responsibility. So, dear fellows, let's be systematic. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u191	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Belkova is a minute of motivation. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u192	Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the colleagues! Of course, Fatherland will support this bill. "Paternity" also supports those about the fact that a request, a request, a letter from a national MP is not just a document -- it's actually a very specific legal document. And I personally always celebrate when I write the address, if the minister answers correctly, I even thank you personally, and we continue the dialogue, we ask each other, and it's a normal job. I would also like to draw attention to something else. Mr. Head, I have personally addressed you with a parliamentary address that has supported very many members of this room from various factions, that there are certain benefits to using this tablet for the national deputies. It's heavy, it's too big, but it's very useful. I'm not breaking up with mine. But we all have professional helpers. Let's still make sure that they have access to these benefits. I'm still waiting for your answer in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-03-m0.u193	Okay. Thank you. But, you know, all the people's deputies could share the boards, the less heavy, the less easy ones, here as a possibility, with their MPs, which they also get. So let's move on to. I continue to meet for 15 minutes before this issue is considered. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance on the basis of the Committee's proposal for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (for MPs) (registration No. 3154). Ready to vote? Ready? I can't hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3157. Please support and vote. [[2:01:08]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
