ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register, take your seats. Are you ready to register? I remind you, as usual, of the registration, Jaroslav Ivanovich, the green button, the first one on the left. Ready? Please register. [[10:11:31]] There are 247 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today is the birthday of our colleague Mikola Viktorovich Babak. [[Applause]] Welcome to the festival. I wish you all the best. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Another important message, I think. It's Rescue Day. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have seen how important, responsible, dangerous, and noble the profession is. So I think we should welcome all those on this dangerous front today who are also protecting our nation. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3960). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:13:15]] For 177 Decision taken. Deputy Finance Minister Skurakov Vasil Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and present! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020, introduced by the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was designed to address the situation in the electricity market, notably the calculation of electricity producers from alternative sources and the corresponding expansion of the capacity of the Cabinet of Ministers to provide State guarantees in 2020 to ensure the fulfilment of the debt obligations of public sector economic operators operating in the field of production and/or the transfer of electricity in Ukraine to international financial institutions to support its liquidity and stability. Currently, the Government of Ukraine is negotiating with international financial organizations, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the possibility of involving funding under State guarantees to fill the circulation capital to support the liquidity of key state energy sector enterprises, which include special responsibilities for ensuring common interests, such as NEC Krennergo, as well as electricity producers such as PRAT Ukrhydroenergo and DP NAEC Energoatem. The provision of State guarantees for loans from state banks and international financial institutions will allow key state-owned enterprises to engage on favourable terms and contribute to increasing their liquidity and sustainability. The adoption of the bill will help improve the relationship of participants in the electricity market. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u3	The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Lunchenko Valerij Valeriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! On September 16, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered bill 3960 on amending article 6 on the State budget for 2020. The committee examined a bill that took into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and other materials received and highlighted the main issues that are reflected in the Committee's letter. More information provided by the Ministry of Finance reports that today the possibility of lending to the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development is being considered as part of the COVID-19 solidarity package to support the liquidity of Ukrenergo. And the bill creates the necessary legal grounds. The Committee on Energy and Housing Services recommends the adoption of the bill. The Budget Committee has also received letters from Ukrenergo and relevant Ukrainian public organizations asking to support the bill, which will have a positive impact on Ukraine's energy sector. During the drafting of the bill in the committee with the participation of the representatives of Minfin and the Auditorium, comments were taken into account by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the provision of proper parliamentary control over the process of granting State guarantees, as well as the Ukrenergo initiative, the proposal on the possibility of granting State guarantees not only for loans from international financial institutions, but also from state banks. Thus, according to the Committee’s consideration of budgetary matters, it is recommended that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 3960 as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals in the Committee’s letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u6	Dear friends, indeed, have considered the matter on the committee. The arguments are to give guarantees for loans. The only thing is wish. The agreement after those loans have been granted to the relevant state banks and others will be accepted by the Parliamentary Committee accordingly. And it's a good procedure, because we're going to understand the amount of money and the real guarantees. Because we know that over the past 10 years, there are some guarantees given to the state and the funds are not recovered. That's why we're going to follow up on this bill. In general, I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Blue. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is the problem with this bill? The granting of State guarantees to economic operators can have far - reaching negative fiscal consequences. You know, government guarantees are usually made for investment, for investors. The bill proposes to provide State guarantees to support the liquidity, stability of Ukrenergo's work, i.e. essentially money for current activities and funding of Ukrenergo. Along with Minfin’s statement in the explanatory note, the probability of a secure incident and the corresponding budget cost of the guaranteed liabilities is low. There are no restrictions on the size of government guarantees that cannot assess possible fiscal risks. The explanatory note does not provide relevant information either, and this makes it difficult to predict the consequences of its adoption in the absence of parliamentary control. The bill does not directly identify the recipients of such guarantees and lenders or programs that may still be credited. The commitment to a specific purpose, i.e. the purpose of the State guarantees, is to lend to the European Bank and the solidarity support of Ukrenergo is not contained in the text of the bill, but only in the explanatory note. So it feels like we're being a little funny here when they mention this loan. Yet, in general our faction can support it in the first reading and on the basis of it. But when preparing the bill for second reading, it is appropriate to rework it in the following directions. To clarify the definition of the limits of State guarantees and the purpose of the loan, which state guarantees are granted. To specify the recipients of such guarantees and loan providers or programs for which such loans may be granted. And to state that the State guarantees provided by the bill may not only be granted by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, but also by agreement with the Supreme Council's profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u9	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u10	Anton Polyakov, MP political party for the future, Montenegro, 206th District. Our parliamentary group has repeatedly stressed that this bill is nothing more than a translation into strategic energy companies and our citizens' problems that the government itself has created. As we have repeatedly said, there has been an extremely serious crisis in the energy sector of our country. In this incomprehensible way, all efforts to help solve these problems end with the aid of so-called green energy enterprises and coal miners in the heat generation. At the same time, the government discriminates against the state energy and the Ukridroenergo for the benefit of one of the financial and industrial groups. In fact, our Kabmin became the branch office of DTEK. And now we're trying to give credit and we're trying to submerge even more Ukrenergo and Energoatom, the Ukrhydroenergo into the debt pit. In the debt hole that our citizens will pay for, because there are no public funds, there are taxpayers' costs. Therefore, the parliamentary group "For the Future" does not support this bill. I would also like to take this opportunity to raise another very critical issue, which is once again related to the inadequacies of our government. It's about debt to coal miners, which is typical of all coal regions in Ukraine and East and West. In this regard, in recent times all of us have seen miners who have been led to despair refusing to come to the surface, risking their lives. The MP Group "For the Future" requires the government to pay off all debts to coal miners on a salary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u11	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u13	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u14	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I agree with the previous speaker, Polack. This situation is created artificially, the motivation of this law is to pay off debts in energy. How did they come about? They came from the fact that excessive tariffs are set and are non-payments, so there's a threat. Instead of dealing with the antimonopoly committee's tariffs, we figure out why it's worth it, we destroy our cheap electricity, we deliver our population at excessively high prices, so debt is created. Now, what happens next? Then we're going to borrow, put it all out and lose our sovereignty in energy. Few things in other areas are given energy to debt, debt, and external management. This bill will not be supported because it threatens sovereignty. And secondly, we're giving the opportunity to decide who and who will be given credits to the Cabinet of Ministers. To date, the Supreme Council decides who is to be guaranteed loans to the state. The budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, too. It's all going away. We're putting energy under external control, we're losing sovereignty, and we're going to lose further if we support such bills. We'll be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Lunchtime? Wait. Anyone else want to speak? Dear colleagues, that's when Lunchenko is performing. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the lunchenko Valeryovich microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u16	Valérie Lunchenko, trust MP. The honourable colleagues who have just spoken to me would like to draw your attention to the fact that you may have listened to me in my speech, and we have actually pointed out that this loan will agree with the Supreme Council's profile committee, namely the budget committee. And there was a big discussion. We've added that not only can international currency funds and institutions engage this loan, but we can also involve this loan from government banks. Therefore, the request to respond fully to the bill and to support it as a whole and on the basis of it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u17	Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, the question is now. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Who's against it? Fatherland, European Solidarity. Based on the base. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 3960). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:27:13]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 3960). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:27:56]] For 204 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration No. 3960). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:28:32]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Beermaker Eugene Pavlovich. Out of procedure, huh? Out of procedure, please. So is it Gerus or Beerware? Who's out of the procedure? A brewery. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, I call on you on behalf of our committee on draft Law 2458. We have the idea that we are asking him to be removed from today’s agenda and transferred in view of the fact that he still has to go to the committee, in some ways he needs to be further worked out. So I'm asking you very much to take it out of the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the committee asks not to consider today. Is there no objection? Mikhail Mikolaiovich, do you have a objection? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The committee is asking us not to consider this bill today because there are issues that need to be worked out. No, no, I'll bet you a vote. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, are you insisting? Don't insist. I mean, we can. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputies have agreed to the committee’s proposal, and we will consider it next time. I'm sure he'll be better. Really? Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 19 of the Law on Medical Devices concerning electronic retail trade in medical devices (registration number 3615-1). Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, is invited to the rostrum. Edit number one, Minko. Don't insist. Who's going to insist on editing? No one's going to insist? Can we vote? Nobody insists? Then we vote. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. They've probably moved into the Ministry of Finance by now. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices for the purpose of electronic retail trade in medical devices (registration No. 3615-1). Ready to vote? Are you sure you're ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:33:09]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 268 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Payment of the Tourist Assembly of Internally Moved Persons (registration No. 3103). This is also a second reading. Is anyone insisting on what they're doing? Vlasenko? What's the readout number? Six, seven? Turn on the microphone, please, Vlasenka. Are you going to insist on one direction? No, I'm good. 7th row, Vlasenko. You don't have a card, you forgot it at home somewhere. We can move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As I was speaking, during the presentation of this bill in the first reading, I said that the bill was correct. However, we place our trust on the local budgets, absolutely all our obligations on the local budgets, because the tourist congregation is the local congregation. And then we need to introduce the possibility of compensating those funds that do not receive local budgets from Ukraine's state budget. That is why 7 laws suggest that the tax agent, at the same time as submitting a tax declaration, should inform the local government, and then that this local government authority should be able to then apply to the state budget for compensation for the amount that he, the local budget, lacks as a result of this benefit that we grant to persons who do not temporarily live in their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u21	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleague, we absolutely agree with you that any benefits that are paid for local taxes should be compensated by the state budget. And the article that regulates this is article 103 of the Budget Code. So this is not the norm of this law. It is, this article is, and it works accordingly. Therefore, as we meet your amendment, we have foreseen in the Transitional Regulations to this Act (paragraph 3, sub-paragraph 2) the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to make appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council for a change to the State Budget Act. I mean, it's counted, but it's another way within our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u23	Thank you. 7 rows. Do you insist on voting? No. 7, Vlasenko. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. Take into account. [[10:36:48]] For 104 The decision is not taken. 10 lashes. And then we vote for the law. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Hairy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you are absolutely right that the compensation mechanism is governed by the Budget Code and this is a matter of the budgetary process. But number 10 has nothing to do with compensation. It introduces a mechanism for informing about the amount of aid in the tourist congregation, which essentially gives the local budget to temporarily displaced persons. That is, it is not a compensation mechanism, which is a mechanism for informing the central authorities of what amount the local budget actually did not receive due to the lack of a certain size of the special congregation. So I'd like 10 amendments to support it. And once again, it's not about the compression mechanism. It refers to the information mechanism and more statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u25	Committee position? Reject?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u26	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u27	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 10. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:25]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Schuffritch's extremity. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I ask you to put a rejected amendment to the vote. The bottom line is that the losses that the local budgets receive in connection with what we are actually depriving, and that's right, our movers from this congregation, are compensated to local budgets by the state budget. Once again, I think that this burden should be borne not by the local budgets, which are barely ending at all, but by the State's concern for both the individual and the local budgets, and to compensate for these real losses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u29	I'll bet on the vote number 3 of the Shufric People's Deputies. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:39:52]] For-79 The decision is not taken. It's okay. It's Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, committee head! I'm not going to bet on confirmation of this amendment, this is amendment number nine, this is committee regulation. But I would very much ask, as there have been many innuendos, including this bill, including related to certain, say, false information in the media. Can you explain what our 9th is about with you and the committee? It's about the addition to sub-paragraph 38.6 of paragraph 38 of Sub-section 10 of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code in order to remove this issue, and the entire room understood what this amendment was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u31	I'll put her to the vote. No, wait. How so? [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Ivanovich, when you pick up, you place it on confirmation. That's what we're going to do. You picked her up for confirmation, didn't you? No, it's not. Can I talk to you for a second? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the point is that today we have a real - estate tax, and this is also related to military conflict, a 60 - square - foot - long [60 - sq m] allowance for apartments and 120 - square - foot [120 - sq m] for non - residential buildings. And for today, the question is, when do people take into account the real estate that they have left in an uncontrollable territory? It's unfair and it's wrong, they don't use this property. Therefore, it is suggested that this property should not be included in the benefits. I address the entire hall, my friends, very cool, normal, small law. Let's both give the opposition, and the authorities will support it together and give people the benefit they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u33	Next time. You still want to put it in, right, for confirmation? No, it's not. Jaroslav Ivanovich, time was spent. Thank you. I'll put this one on then. Let's go to the vote for the law. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 268 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Exemption from Payment of the Tourist Assembly of Internally Moved Persons (Registration No. 3103). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:45:04]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Added Taxes from Transactions in the Supply of Certain Agricultural Products (Registration No. 3656). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Wait. Wait. Stop, please. I missed it. If you don't mind, then we'll go through this question, then we'll go back to 3614. It is suggested that this issue be dealt with by a reduced procedure, and I ask you to support and vote. [[10:46:12]] For 216 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u34	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! Today, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for VAT on operations in the supply of individual agricultural products. The bill proposes to introduce a reduced VAT rate of 14 percent for certain agricultural products on export and import. In particular, large cattle live, pigs live, parts of raw milk, wheat, wheat, barley, oats, corn, soybeans, flax seeds, feces and rape seeds, sunflower seeds, seeds, and other oil crops, sugar beetroot. First of all, this decrease will reduce the tax burden on producers of products, which in turn will reduce the cost of raw material to the VAT reduction already for processors of such products. In doing so, the reduction in VAT on transactions in the implementation of grain and oil crops and non-harvested milk in general will also not result in the loss of the state budget, as these goods are not being implemented by the end consumer, who is the actual payer of VAT. When VAT is reduced in transactions involving grain and oil crops, which are mostly export positions, the amount of compensation from the budget to the exporters of such grains and exporters of their products is reduced. That is to say, budget spending and the risk of VAT abuse and so-called "crushings" are being reduced as the effectiveness of such schemes is sharply reduced. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to adopt Bill 3656 as a basis and consider the possibility of adoption as a whole as a law with technical and legal rights, because the law is very important, short in text and content and urgent in the field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u35	The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Zablotsky Marjan Bogdanovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head! Thank you, Mikoli Tarasovich, and many of the members of the agrarian committee for submitting the bill. It was Mikola Tarasovich who gave a very good account of the bill. The Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy supported the bill almost unanimously. The committee’s proposal also discusses the possibility of accepting it today not only on a basis but also as a whole. It consists of only one sentence. I will note that the bill also received positive conclusions from both the State Tax Office and the Ministry of Finance. It is also supported by agrarian associations such as the Universal Agrarian Council. This bill will help agricultural producers today. And I also want to thank the other drafters of the bill, and the bill also contains authors from the "Fatherland", "European Solidarity". It's an absolutely non-political bill that goes straight to the right thing. Mr. Speaker often talks about how he likes to be accepted by a constitutional majority. If there is no objection, I would like to see the same figures today. Thank you. Good bill, from the committee to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National MP of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u39	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! European legislation has a number of mechanisms that support individual sectors of the economy or individual categories of citizens through the use of tax instruments. And one such tool is a reduced tax rate on added value. Usually, in all countries, such a reduced rate is applied to socially important products: medicines, medical services, individual foods, and the production of agricultural products, and so forth. We also have these reduced rates, you know, there are three tax rates in the Tax Code today: 20, 0 and 7. This law introduces a new 14 - percent tax on added value, specifically for which agricultural products are used. I hope the agrarian committee just picked up those kinds of products that need support. And in general, when I talk about the system, how this will affect the overall VAT payment system to the budget, I can only see the benefit of that: finally, the crop-exports will change or disappear. And that's the huge budget losses that we have today -- up to 20 to 25 billion a year because of growing grains that are in the shadows -- are being reimbursed by VAT on a budget that is not paid by anyone. With proper administration, it seems to me that this bill will be of great benefit to the budget, and in no way will it be lost. I therefore propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u41	The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Of course, it is difficult to reach people who will not support the idea of tax and congregation tax cuts. But there's a major "but." And there are a number of points that I'd like to pay attention to, and I'd like you to listen to me, because these are very serious things. First. We're going to have a very serious shift towards the raw economy, and we're actually going to destroy the processing industry. This gap that can take place today, it will stimulate, look even at the quetzal: wheat, wheat, barley, oats, corn, soybeans, beans, and so forth. They're going to have a 14 percent VAT rate, someone who's going to do the processing -- they're going to have 20 percent. I'm not talking about an option like tax credit anymore. I think who the experts are, they also know what the consequences will be. Another very important moment. Minus 11.2 percent is the decline in agricultural production, but not as many agrobarons as small single farmers and so on. Another very important moment is what I said about raw materials and so on. We have 45 percent of our exports in the first half of the year -- agriculture. But only 7 percent is prepared food, everything else is raw. So when you take such steps, think about correcting them. You either give everyone an option, not just a preference, because I'm going to repeat that this is a positive idea: tax and tax cuts. And to the end. I see a 21st year budget project, we all know deficit, underfunding and so on. Whether you need to reduce taxes, you are able to do so during this budget period is also a very important issue. Because the budget deficit is 270 billion, the additional borrowing is 702 billion, and then you count it out and then we'll go out with you, "for" and all "against". Thank you. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u44	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, surely, a bill that leaves part of the VAT as a negotiable cost to the farmer needs to be supported. We canceled the special tax regime, and we had many promises. But today’s realities show the following. Disgusting clothes and our entire south were affected by drought. Has the State helped these agrarians? No, it's not. Are we paid the money that was promised when the special tax regime was abolished? We fought all the halls of the past in order not to be less than one percent. No, it's not. And today, even half of the funds that were budgeted to support the agricultural sector did not go. Whether we have an information policy for about 20 percent of people to move from one person to a family farm and become taxpayers, they become the growth points in the territory that can provide jobs. Millions of jobs, millions, because one-man farms today are 4 and a half million. No, this policy doesn't work. There is no policy to direct the farmer’s priorities in the land market to a small family and to give him all the financial mechanisms. There is no financial opportunity for today, and the land market has already been voted on by you. And the promises made by the President and all his representatives behind this rostrum will be enough. So I advise you, colleagues, to think today that the land market is being run without adequate financial and credit resources for people. Let's support this law and leave the cost to the farmer. I thank everyone who votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we have a national MP, Marousek. Then he is the national deputy of Tchaikovsky. Then Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, I see. And then we go to the vote. I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall. Please give the floor to the national deputy Marousek Oleg Romanovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u46	Dear head, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon to all. The initiator of the bill believes that VAT compensation will be reduced when agricultural production is exported, as less VAT will be claimed by traders. However, if the salt is charged to VAT at a rate of 14 and the processed products 20, traders are more likely to work with raw materials rather than with processed products. So if you extend the validity of the law and the processing products, it can cause the agricultural sector to move, if you don't extend the law to processed products, it will cause the agricultural sector to move to the raw material model. If one sector is taxed down, others automatically mean reinforcements that generally have a negative impact on the development of the whole economy. In addition, if VAT rates are declining, the budget is under-received by imports, and the government should seek additional sources of income. Reduce the VAT rate and the supply operation in the customs territory of Ukraine and import will not give any advantages to domestic farmers. In addition, the bill contains numerous comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which cannot be accepted in this way. We vote "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u47	Please, National Deputy Tchaikovsky, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u48	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr. Head. I want to say from the MP's "For the Future Party" group that the bill is a necessary and agrarian sector of the country has been waiting for this bill for a long time. And I'll tell you why. If we look at our neighbors in Poles, today we have 7 percent of VAT on meat, we have 20 percent VAT on milk. And we've seen in recent years how many of our fellow citizens are going directly to Europe to buy goods. I think today, by introducing this bill, we're going to be able to lower the value of goods on the shelves of our stores. And our Ukrainian goods will be much more competitive. That's why the MP Group "For the Future" we support this bill and we believe that this bill will lead to an agricultural sector of growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u49	Thank you. National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u50	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This bill is extremely important because the tax burden on agricultural producers is lowering, which is very important now, given the drought that we now have in the southern part of the country. And this is a huge crop shortage. And these are the extra circulation costs, these are the working capital just for our farmers, for small farmers. Secondly, this will make it impossible to manipulate VAT, because everyone knows VAT strikes in the country, and the state loses 5 to 7 billion each year. Think about it, 5-7 billion. The main thing is that reducing the tax rate to 14 percent will make it impossible to abuse tax credit. Simply put, it would be pointless to give it away. I ask all my colleagues to support this bill, which is very important to the agrarians, and to vote it as a basis and as a whole, because it is extremely relevant and must be adopted as a law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Added Cost Taxes from Transactions in the Supply of Certain Agricultural Products (Registration No. 3656). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:02:53]] For 233 Decision taken. Show by factions. Look, the committee's decision is on the ground. A representative of the committee is now calling for a general vote. Who's against it? Who's against it, raise your hands. Against it, on the ground. OPCW – against, "Serve of the people" – against. Shorteners? I'll bet you a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the deadlines for the submission of allowances and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the value added tax for the supply of individual agricultural products (Registration No. 3656). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:04:23]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to bring budget legislation into line with the completion of administrative and territorial reform (registration number 3614). It's on the books. Amendment number two. Who's going to insist on editing? Nobody insists? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Okay. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget on the adoption of budgetary legislation in relation to the completion of administrative and territorial reform (Registration No. 3614). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:15.]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. About the break, about the real break. Is it a meeting or just a meeting? I'd like to ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to meet in my office, if you'll excuse me. Half an hour, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for work. Dear colleagues, take your seats and get ready for work. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decree on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (registration number 4104). Please take your seats. We need to vote in favour of a reduced procedure if you support it. Ready to vote? I'm voting on a motion to review a summary order. Please support and vote. [[11:47:43]] For 213 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u53	Comrades, good afternoon. At its meeting yesterday, the committee considered the candidates who had joined the committee. And he chose the following candidates: Bosol Olena Yuriovna, Gudjala Andrija Andriyovich, Drozda Alexi Yuriovich, Koval Katerina Petrovna, Nauratsky Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch, Romanyuk Bogdan Vasilovich, Sobol Eugen Yuriovich. The relevant decision is proposed and signed by the members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u55	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u56	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u57	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, friends! The MP's Party for the Future thinks we're too busy with this question. It's like "long road in the dunes" when we vote endlessly many times. Realizing that there are already four foreigners on the competition commission to run the SAP, who can make decisions without us without Parliament, a colleague. We firmly believe that the Ukrainian Parliament is Ukraine's higher legislative body and should not stand outside this process of fighting corruption. We listened from this rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who felt that she should receive an assistant attorney general without delay to actually deal with the real issues of anti-corruption. We are equally opposed to outside management when foreigners set us up with their position, their opinion. We have our opinion, and we want to stand up for this – how to end the age of impunity. And all political parties, all political factions, here I think should be the only ones in this. Those candidates on this list today represented by the profiling committee are completely worthy candidates. And we don't divide factions, MPs into ideological and non-ideological groups today. The electorate voted for everyone. And for us, the majority MPs, the "For the Future" factions, that's what the voters voted for. So, dear friends, all of these candidates, I think, passed the profile committee. These are worthy people who are doctors of science, scientists, lawyers of high quality. They can really start what we call anti-punitive and corruption in Ukraine. We will vote in favour of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u58	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u59	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, what's going on right now, and this decision that's being put into the room right now, let's be clear: it's a specific rematch of the prokrem and oligarchic structures in Ukraine. Because are there any representatives of the democratic opposition in the decree that we are currently considering? No, there isn't. And given what the D.B.I. is doing today, where the Yanukovich people are sitting, because today the law enforcement system is a nightmare, given what is happening today with freedom of speech in our country, we see only one thing -- we see that the authorities want to cement their influence even more on the law enforcement system. So "European Solidarity" is going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u60	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor! Decree 4104 is like this. You know, it's a very classic pattern of political corruption. At first, the "Serve of the People" brought only themselves. Then, when they saw that there were no votes, they received one group. Again, there were no votes, and another group was welcomed. There were no votes again, and the faction was still good. Colleagues, well, first of all, you know, I was on my way from the rostrum. In fact, the list itself is virtually unchanged; only two people were given the quota to one of the political groups. It's a problem like these people. It's a problem like these people. We need to get people with an undisputed reputation who will choose an honest, decent and impartial leader of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, not people whose names are already called in the media as future S.A.P. It's a wrong story, colleagues. It is possible, in order to ensure a non-political process, that representatives from all factions and groups can be involved in the work of this commission, thus moving away from political quotas, from political possibilities and from political influences. And try to convert the SAP to some pattern of more or less normal structure. By the way, last time I heard it, I'm definitely not a fan of international experts, but last time it sounded like there were the same people as international experts. Dear colleagues, the name Drago Kosa, who is now a member of the commission, know all the people who have more or less encountered the issue of the work of anti-corruption bodies in Europe. In a way like that, "Paternity" won't support this corrupt decision. We demand that all candidates be put to a possible rating vote, and then we will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Now Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. After that, Ustinova. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u63	Dear Chairman, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u64	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u65	Honorable national MPs may, in fact, be offended by someone’s anger. But I would have pointed out that the committee meeting was yesterday, and the factions, and the groups would have delegated representatives to the commission, but they would have voted even for those representatives, in that power from other factions that had already spoken, who had not even arrived and had not been Skyped. In fact, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support candidates, vote in favour, because it is necessary to run the commission and create an organ. The Commission will work transparently and everyone will have access.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna for a motive, then we vote. Take your seats, please, so that we can vote for the break. Stealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I urge the entire room not to vote on this motion today, in this decree, the people who are now protecting the corrupts whose affairs are being handled by the U.S.A. and the U.S.A. They are people who themselves have been unable to pass tests and cannot explain their possessions. This ruling cannot be voted on. We see wonderfully how now the pro-Russian factions have gathered together to take control of anti-corruption structures and vote now. So I'm asking everyone who, for us to have independent law enforcement agencies, does not support this decision. We need to vote every single person in this room. I call for this to be voted on. We were called upon by the EU, we were called upon by the International Monetary Fund, and this morning they came out with their statements that this cannot be supported. I understand Russia needs to take away the car, but think about whether you need it or whether the Ukrainians and your voters need it. I also want to mention negative Geo Leros because he has a terrible tie today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Leros Geo Bagratovich, one minute. Then we vote. We're going to vote until the 12th, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies, see what example we have seen from Zelensky today. He only knew about Jurchenk for a week, but later, for the sake of the ratings, he threw it down. This is going to be the same thing as that vote. You are now ashamed of this vote, and then the office of President Zille of all deputies. Don't do this, it's your personal reputation, don't embarrass yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u70	I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (registration number 4104). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:48]] For 239. Decision taken. It's been decided. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 172, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 30, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 18, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 11, "the Non-Factional" – 8. Decision taken. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Taras Ivanovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, can I talk to you for a second? Dear colleagues, the bill (registration number 3991) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the roadways of general use and rehabilitation of emergency bridge buildings). At the rostrum is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich Truhin, are we interrupting? On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u72	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u73	No, no, no, no, no. Here's the editing, it's the second reading. Amendment number two, Babenko. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Who's going to insist on editing? Ivan Grigorovich, are you alone? Yvchenko? No, here, I see, the hands went for it. Puzichuk, no. Ivchenko, 7th Amendment. Kirilenko, 7th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u74	Dear Lord, presiding and distinguished colleagues! Edit 7, 8, 9 and 16. Notice, Dmitri Alexanderovich. 7, 8, 9 and 16. The essence of these rights is to provide a learning process from students, students to teachers and teachers, and so forth, with protection and disinfectants. It means to pay back the money we've been going to fight COVID, and then look at it all and send it on the road, so let's at least get back to the 7 billion that they took. Let us face the truth honestly. What roads? When dozens of self - isolation classes are in quarantine, hundreds of teachers are already ill. Guys, what are we doing? That's why I'm putting all these changes to the vote, and I'm asking you to support the room -- to return the money to education to save the children and the teachers. 7-a, 8-a, 9-a and 16-a, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u75	Now, just a second. The position of the committee, and then I'll put in order, Ivan Grigorovitch. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u76	The committee's position on these rights is negative, not supported. But the committee allocated an additional 200 million dollars to education. Please study a comparison table. Thus, 200 million dollars have been allocated separately to higher education institutions. Under these regulations, they balance this bill, so they can't be accounted for in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you: the 7th, 8th, 9th and 16th National Deputies of Yvchenka and Kirilenko. I'm going to put the vote in turn. Yes, I understand? Dear colleagues, the amendment is made to the vote. Vadim Eugeneovich, what kind of correction do you want? Then let's put these three together, then I'll give you the 16th. Okay? Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputies Ivchenka and Kirilenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:33]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Next amendment is number 8 of the national deputies Ivchenka and Kirilenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:55]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 9 of the national deputies Ivchenka and Kirilenka. A similar situation, the committee suggests a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:17]] For 106 The decision is not taken. And after the 16th amendment, I give the floor to national deputy Yvchenk. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u78	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are again addressing you. A school year had begun, and the state had not given all teachers a penny to provide individual protection for students, students, teachers. She hung everything on the organs of local self - government. We ask these rights, first of all, to enable the Cabinet of Ministers directly to provide a learning process. And second, colleagues. We've proposed 9 revisions to get the Cabinet of Ministers to pay back those expenses to all the teachers who were agreed with us and voted on January 1st, 20th. We took nearly 7 billion into the COVID fund. And the deputy chairman of the committee says they've returned 200 million. So let's go back more. They're people. The human - centered model should be privileged for today. Let's support the teachers. "Paternality" suggests voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u79	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u80	The honourable colleague, the law that was given, is unbalanced, so it doesn't reflect the real state of things. And it's going to take into account a very large resource that you haven't shown where to redirect it. So it can't be accounted for, so you can't apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u81	You're demanding a vote, aren't you? The vote is amended by 16 national deputies Ivchenka and Kirilenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:21]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, who will insist on repairs? What's that? 60 and 61, right? Please. Please, there's still 58, 59, right? Now, one second, I'll find them. [[B in m in s a l in]] 58 is the amendment of the Black People's Deputy. Volinec is 59. Only one then? Please, Deputy Volinec. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u82	Mr. Alexander, I thank all the members of the Budget Committee of all the factions who have supported this amendment. This affects the allocation of 51 million dollars to miners on wages, who two weeks ago sat seven days underground, a government mine. I don't know what partial is? That's the first question. And the next amendment, if there's a room there, that's probably 60th, is that I'm offered 1.4 billion dollars to pay to miners this year of other government mines. So far, debt is already 1 billion. By the end of the year, it's going to be 2 billion. I don't understand how it happened that the second amendment wasn't counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u83	Please have the Committee's 59th Amendment position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u84	Thank you. 59 revisions, Mikhail says everything was taken into account in part. The wages that strikers should receive will come to them. And about the 1.5 billion you're talking about. There was an agreement with the government that the government would issue in other programs or redistributions, but not in this bill. So you and I can join as national deputies in resolving this issue. But here in this bill is only a very important and important issue of debt today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u85	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? No, just take it away. You insist on voting in your paper, not in part, right? Dear colleagues, Amendment 59. It was taken into account by the committee in part, and the National MP of this amendment, Volintz, demands that it be taken fully into account. The committee suggests leaving it as it was partially accounted for. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[12:43:46]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next, it's 60 and 61. National Deputy Kamelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Indeed, this is an important amendment and one is included, and the other is included in a little bit of the other. It's important because it happened that the miners of the Hope Mine were trapped in the previous leadership, and they were deceived very severely by more than 50 million dollars. And what we're doing right now is a very important thing. We save, except for the state-owned enterprise, and the whole city of Sosniuka, which now depends on the business. And according to this, we're showing that we don't abandon our own, we're helping the enterprise get up and we're actually saving literally thousands of families that can continue to work. So thank you to the committee that the number 60 and 61 are included in another edition. I look forward to your full vote on Bill 3991, which today will show that we care for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u87	Mr. Yuri, I don't understand why you took the floor, because one is counted, the other is edited. All right, I get it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please tell me if there are other desirable persons who want to be appointed.? Vote. Then, Your Honourable Colleagues, I'd like to ask the deputies to come to the hall. Dear colleagues, invite the national MPs to the hall, we're voting. Honorable National MPs. Mamka's national MP, right? Please turn it on. Dear Deputy Mamka. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, please record my speech under the transcript and note that I, through SEDO myself, have amended the bill. In this bill, just an hour ago, there was a table without my rights. Please put it in. I went to the regulatory committee. Please put the number 107 on the confirmation to which I submitted the information, where under good terms we are starting to reconstruct the Metallurgy Stadium, where state funds are allocated, 150 million dollars. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u89	107 is not yours. You're putting her on the stand? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you 107 votes. She was counted by the committee. Pasic, Trukin's authors. Ready to vote? Ready? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u90	The committee supports this amendment. We consider it necessary to reinvigorate sports in cities such as the Horn of Curve and other cities in our country. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u91	I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[12:47:40]] For 240 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (for road roads for general use and rehabilitation of emergency bridge buildings) (registration No. 3991). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:30.]] For 255 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of physical culture and sports (registration number 3550), which is the second reading. Who's going to insist on editing? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of physical culture and sports (registration number 3550). Please support and vote. [[12:49:35.]] For 318 Decision taken. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Anti-Dominance Activities in Ukraine (registration number 3618). Needed to discuss rights? Can we vote? No, you insist? What's the readout? Wait, just Bobrov's check, so we don't come back? One person is the amendment, and we vote, right? No, then let's go to the repairs. Then we'll come back ten times. 3 redundancies. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u92	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Opposing Activities to Second Reading has been given a professional appearance and I thank the authors. I've just had four revisions taken into account, thanks to the task force and the committee. I have a question about the 5th amendment that's been rejected. I'd like the reporter to explain. We suggested that after the words "explosive objects," we complement them with the words "explosive substances or their components." And we think the bill would be more professional. And in general, the "Fatherland" faction supports this necessary bill to enable it as soon as possible to work professionally on an important component such as demining.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Here we go. Explosives or their components are an element of explosive objects referred to in section I, paragraph 1, of the draft law, in the appropriate definition of "explosive objects". We've recalculated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u94	Is there a need for a vote? You don't have to. Thank you. Please, who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u95	Bobrowski, what's the number for the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u96	47.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u97	47th Amendment of National Deputy Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u98	Yes, thank you. I'll remind everyone that we're actually returning to this law the role and functions of the Supreme Council as an authority to control, in principle, the process of anti-discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u99	That's how it's accounted for. Why do you take it? Oh, you don't. All of it. Dear colleagues, all of it. Yeah? Please prepare for the vote. You've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's counted. Dear committee, there's something I can't understand. I have it in the table that 47 amendments are included. 47th National Deputy Rahmanin. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 47 people’s deputies, Rahmanin, is based on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand that National Deputy Bobrowski has discussed the issue. Yeah? So this is about the 48th amendment, not the 47th, the 48th amendment of Bobrowski. The committee didn't count it. Hence, respectable colleagues, but there is a position to count. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 48 of the People's Deputy Bobrowski. Please support and vote. [[12:55:00]] For 279 Decision taken. All right, we're done discussing this bill and we can put it to a vote. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine. The committee's proposal is for the vote to be adopted in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, bill number 2618. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:00]] For 287 Decision taken. The law was passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u100	Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for voting for the opposing activity. Dmitry Aleksandrovich, colleagues from the hall, I'm here to bring up a bill on intelligence, a very important bill for the country. If we could just vote it out now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, no objection? Is anyone insisting on the papers? What kind of papers do you insist on? I see. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Three minutes, please. Time's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. The bill itself, we know well, has been developed more than a year on the basis of consultations with NATO. His current editorial has now been working on the committee until the last moment and taking into account all the expert conclusions that have been put forward. In particular, by law, it is about extending the powers of the President of Ukraine with regard to possible one-man intelligence and this, by the way, the opponents of the law refer to as a violation of this law. We wouldn't want every special intelligence operation of the Ukrainian intelligence services to end up about the same way that it ended with the Wagners. I hope that this sad experience will be taken into account in the further work of intelligence and will never again be repeated. I would also like to avoid conflicts in the bill within the intelligence system because of the so - called question of double subordination. Because no matter how perfect and sophisticated the law would be, there remains, for example, a double subordination of the Ministry of Defense's Directorate of Intelligence, both to the head of the coordinating body and to the Minister of Defense directly. The legal procedure for granting status to persons involved in confidential cooperation with intelligence agencies remains unclear, even though each of us understands who we are talking about. Thus, for example, the proposal contained in the proposed amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans suggests that we do so in a timely manner and in a way that excludes the identification of these individuals. However, the adoption of this law is an important step in reforming the entire intelligence community and the intelligence community. And we will undoubtedly support that step. In addition, the bill allows for the exploration of intelligence agencies in Ukraine. The list of legally defined subjects of society is not exhaustive, and the National Security and Defence Council is left with the right to add to this list of other subjects, depending on the specific tasks to be performed. In addition, this law includes the role of intelligence agencies in reforming state policies in legal areas that are clearly central to executive powers. The list of progressive steps of the law can be continued, it's quite extensive. One might mention the unprecedented package of social security that is provided to the employees of the intelligence agencies. But we will always remember that the degree of trust of the State and the degree of social protection must always be directly proportional to the responsibilities of the military and its coworkers to the country for carrying out the necessary tasks. Undoubtedly, the faction "European Solidarity" will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Bushmanin, Bobrowski, and Cimbaluk insisted. Nobody else? Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u105	My dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, gave me 17 rights: one was counted, 16 was not. I'd like to give you eight minutes, try to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u106	Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u107	I can't bet, give me 8, I want to tell you a little bit about my vision, too. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you remember, a few months ago we passed the Law on External Intelligence. Who forgot, I will remind you that it is established that external intelligence is not subordinated to any branch of authority. That's the first one. The other one. What the territorial authorities are creating in Ukraine is external intelligence. And the third is that it is subject to civil, civil, control. Yes, that law also comes after the Law of Intelligence. What territorial organs are. Not intelligence, I'm asking you not to confuse what's going on, and it's all normal, and the territorial authorities are the district authorities of external intelligence. What are they going to do there? We left in 2004, and we want to go back to the 20th. And now directly by law. This law contradicts, first and foremost, several provisions of the Constitution, namely: 5 norms, 6 norms, 9 articles of the Constitution, 106 articles of the Constitution. So it can be declared unconstitutional. Now directly by law. We create from external intelligence such an internal intelligence, such as that of the Security Service. In particular, the External Intelligence Service will have its own district representations, not representations, but administrations or areas. Next. We allow this law on the basis of intelligence, not intelligence, but intelligence, it's very different things. Intelligence is just a bunch of information. A search and rescue case is a case that then goes to a crime scene with signs of crime. On the basis of an intelligence case, judges are granted permission to carry out search and search activities in Ukraine with respect to Ukrainian citizens. So this law is based on an investigative case to grant such permission by special courts, to carry out complexes of operational and technical action in Ukraine. I ask, What will external intelligence do in Ukraine, and from whom will it record information? This is basically the job of the Security Service, the N.A.U.U., the police, the police -- that's all that matters inside. Now, according to the articles, if you don't believe what I'm telling you. Article 15 is court-martialed action, what I said. All of this can be done by internal intelligence, namely: the H.E., the police, the tax, and everyone else. External intelligence and intelligence have to work outside. Next. Permission to conduct TMMs on the basis of a case is granted for 6 months. What will external intelligence do in Ukraine against the requirements of procedural law, contrary to other laws in the territory? Whom will she listen to from within the country? It's all done by internal organs. Let's move on. When asked, I asked, too, what does external intelligence do in the territorial authorities in the areas? What will she do there? But this law provides for her to be present there. Is the earth divided or what? Is it possible to obtain information there where other internal organs will not be acquired? Next. Most of all, I spoke and asked that a working group be set up, not a working group, but that they meet with the heads of foreign intelligence and intelligence directly from the deputies. He asked me to include some of the experts from Fatherland in Skinnyakin, Valentina Navejchenka, so we could ask questions -- these are the sharp questions I'm asking you right now -- to the leaders of the dispersal authorities, what they want to do in Ukraine and why this is all done. We didn't. It was explained that there was something out there, something like that, and so on. I think that's a big flaw. We had to talk, we had to ask questions, maybe we didn't have to ask these questions today, and these risks are legal. And the main thing is what I said. In summary, external intelligence by this law and intelligence agencies are given the opportunity to work in Ukraine with all operational and technical measures. All of them. Next. I said that in the previous Law on External Intelligence, it is clearly stated that external intelligence creates its own units and is subject to independent civilian supervision. That's "independent civilian surveillance," I don't want to talk much. But in individual methods, they are allowed to have access to sources of information, to transmit information, and so forth. So I want to conclude that this law threatens the loss of sovereignty over the authorities of the state of security. If we met and talked about it all, not just by mouth, and it was clearly laid down in this law, I wouldn't be asking these questions. I read the law, I read what it says, and I see threats. I believe that it poses a threat to the loss of sovereignty in the area of national security. Thank you. We will not support him in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u108	Thank you, Anatoly Petrovich. Committee position, one minute. I understand that we don't make an adjustment for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u109	I'm going to point out a few important points, because not quite, with all the respect and cooperation of the faction, has been correctly noted. This is the bill we're dividing, we're clearly defining intelligence -- it's just the External Intelligence Service, it's the GUR, it's military intelligence, and it's also border guards. Everyone else is just an exchange of information. Gentlemen, when we are told that scouts and intelligence should not exchange information and there should be no coordination between them, we understand what we can conclude. Moreover, civil and democratic control is our control of the services with you, it's parliamentary control. The whole article is about how Parliament will oversee and monitor the intelligence agencies. The position of the committee to support in the second reading as a whole. And I ask you, gentlemen, to support and give green light to the reform of intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u110	Please, who else? Please, Rachmanin. What an amendment, just tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u111	Thank you. I've got three adjustments to count, one amendment to confirm. I'm going to start with the cure, 64 revisions. What are you talking about, fellow officers of honor? The point is that the law allows the Ukrainian Security Service to conduct reconnaissance activities within the framework of counterintelligence. Even though the committee has worked hard enough and has written down some procedural points, there is still room for double interpretation. I believe that the Ukrainian Security Service, as a purely counterintelligence, does not have to have additional powers beyond its control. So I'm asking you to vote in favour of this right so that the Security Service does what it's supposed to do -- counterintelligence and not do intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u112	Thank you. The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u113	The amendment was rejected because the Ukrainian Security Service was excluded from the list of intelligence agencies. It's just a matter of intelligence, information exchange, and involvement in intelligence for the purposes of counterintelligence, or joint action. All of this is limited to counterintelligence, provided that we work for various agents that threaten Ukraine’s national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u114	Thank you. You insist, don't you? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 64 of People's Deputy Rahmanin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:37]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, what's the number? Sergey Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u115	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The next amendment is Amendment 74. It refers to the same thing, but it's still an extended version. I don't agree with the committee's position, we've discussed this over and over again. It's not really just about the exchange of information. In fact, the Security Service in accordance with this law is able to take certain measures that do not belong to any service in any country. Moreover, it is also proposed that the list of departments involved in the exploration activities be manually determined by the President of Ukraine, which is contrary to common sense, the Constitution and any norms. So I'm asking you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u116	Thank you. The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u117	The committee rejected this amendment. This question concerns the previous question that the Ukrainian Security Service joins the intelligence community in the interests of counterintelligence, but it is excluded from intelligence. This amendment is, unfortunately, contrary to the concept of the bill. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the faction "The Voice" and Mr. Rachmanin in particular for their fruitful work. We've taken into account a lot of suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Amendment 74 shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:17]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. And the last amendment of Sergey Rachmanin. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Admissions, because I have another check-in and one confirmation check. Dear colleagues, number 292. Listen to me carefully, this remedy has no political coloring, and it is very important and very sensitive. It is about those involved in confidential cooperation. The law stipulates that adults are involved, but there are the words "may be involved." It's discretion, it's not imperative, therefore, that the proposal is to prohibit intelligence agencies from engaging in confidential cooperation among minors. Because unfortunately, I'm asking for your attention, colleagues, it's important -- unfortunately, we have cases where minors are recruited by intelligence agencies, and then we don't have the ability to protect them in occupied areas. Therefore, I insist on this right that the intelligence authorities be expressly prohibited from involving minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u120	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u121	The committee rejected this amendment, but it really reduces the risks and we ask for support, we don't deny it. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, support the amendment of 292 National MP Rahmanin Sergio Ivanovich. The committee did, in principle, reject, but there is no objection to its support. That's why I'm putting 292 amendments to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:15:06]] For 270. Decision taken. And you've got another one, the ultimate amendment. Yes, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The last amendment is very important. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of the 69, which provides for manual identification of the units involved in the intelligence activity. I stress that the list of Presidential powers is exhaustive, it is provided for in the 106th Constitution, and article 19 of the Constitution prohibits him from doing anything that is provided for in the Constitution. I recall that the Constitutional Court recently reminded us, in an understandable way, that any powers of the President that go beyond the Constitution will be repealed sooner or later. The president will be hand-in-hand in determining which of the esbeušniks should be involved in intelligence. This is unacceptable in terms of common sense, both in terms of logic and in terms of national security. Please place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u124	Please take the position of the 69th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u125	The committee's position was to take this into account. However, in order to strengthen parliamentary control, I advise my colleagues to support and not really add these powers, because we are still strengthening the President's mandate as head of intelligence, and the list has to be exhaustive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on confirmation of 69 amendments, the national deputy of Venislavski. The committee counted it. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Amendment number 69. It's counted by the committee. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. [[13:18:29]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, my amendment number 359, and it refers to an equally important item. Amendment to an article that regulates who cannot be coworkers of the intelligence body. My suggestion is that the members of the intelligence body cannot be relatives who have relatives and loved ones who have foreign citizenship or who are stateless. The committee's proposal is a ban on being a co-worker of an intelligence body that has close relatives of the aggressor state. But, dear colleagues, let's think about the future and see what kind of neighbors we have. Let me remind you, we have more than a thousand kilometers with the Republic of Belarus, and we also have problems with Carpathian and Bukovina, including Odessa. Let's think ahead and not make a grid out of intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u129	Samantha Anatolyevna, what's the readjustment? The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u130	359. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u131	359 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u132	Gentlemen, may I? 369 counted in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u133	59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u134	Bobrowski, that's exactly 369. Gentlemen, this adjustment is partially accounted for because of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u135	It's rejected. 359, Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u136	Yes. So about 359 of Mrs. Bobrowski's amendments, she's rejected by the committee and she's proposed in the committee. We believe that this edition is correct, which is consistent with current legislation and allows the appropriate intelligence authorities to work. So it's suggested that we leave the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u137	I'm betting on the vote of 359 Bobrowski. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:53]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Samantha Anatolyevna, all right? We can cross. Thank you. Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, we agreed, so I understand you'll be speaking. That's not the deal, is it? And you didn't speak, sorry. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Zimbaluk. What kind of corrections would you like to make right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u138	I'm going to ask for two minutes of the speech, and I'm going to put 45 to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u139	Okay. Give me another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, I would like to go on with what my colleagues said. This bill gives the External Intelligence Service its role as a law enforcement agency. The External Intelligence Service will carry out operations inside the State and will have the right to conduct alongside other law enforcement agencies that are empowered by law to do so. So we're not going to have competition again, we're going to have conflicts and disputes at the border, in other territories. We're re-establishing the territorial bodies of the External Intelligence Service. Perhaps we are in such a position abroad that we have only to carry out these measures inside the State. I'd like to put 45 voting rights on this very basis. It is by which we propose to establish an understanding or concept of counterintelligence and special intelligence. We believe that the committee, when preparing for second reading, should really have a broad discussion with experts, which should be the intelligence bill, especially in these difficult conditions, when we have the external aggression of the Russian Federation. Because of this, the "Fatherland" faction will not support it in the second reading, and it believes that this bill should be returned, and that it should have really professional discussions with current heads of intelligence, including the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, two minutes instead of right. And after that. Oh, I'm sorry, Mikhail Mikhailovich. 45 Amendment of the Cymbaluk, I put it to a vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:07]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich 2 minutes. And then we vote, invite the national MPs to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I can essentially point out that about a month ago this body was actually created, but the law is a little bit later on in the context. This is the direct impact of turbulence and such an turbulence, and I would essentially recommend that it be removed from consideration at all. Why? Because we're introducing a new concept of "investigative community," we're subordinating it, and notice, to the deputy head of the U.S.N.P.O. But we all understand who we have, who is the leader of the PNBD de jure, and who should be responsible for the organ. If one organ of an OR is not intact, we suggest creating another organ. In fact, in this law, I want to support the speakers, we are still making a direct change to the Criminal Procedural Code. We define, we define by the law of the authorized judge. I'm sorry, who's authorized, according to the table that we have today? I want to point out that there really should be authority, but not to the total powers of the President of Ukraine. These are extended possibilities, not the distribution of internal, external intelligence services, it's a fully expanded mechanism for legal or illegal reasons, or using influence, more of which is subordinated to the Presidential branch of power, namely the President's appointment, the determination of powers, the definition of organs. Imagine how you need to get into the process to identify the bodies that are going to be involved in this activity, and yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u143	You don't insist on voting, do you? Dear colleagues, another amendment of the Lubinz People's Deputy. Now I'm just gonna do it. 146th, please, the Lubinian People's Deputy. 146 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the committee for the fact that many of my rights have been taken into account either partially or editorially. But I want to put one of my 146ths to the vote. It refers to the appointment of the head of the External Intelligence Service. I sincerely believe that if we say that we are living under the Constitution under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, then the President should apply and the candidature should be approved by a decision of Parliament, the Supreme Council. As we do with the Attorney General of Ukraine, as we do with the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the same principle should be applied to the head of the External Intelligence Service. The President is running for office, the Parliament, if it agrees, votes, and then the appointment takes place. The same is true of the liberation by Parliament. So please put to the vote my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u145	Please give the committee a brief position. We are now voting on this amendment and then we are going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u146	Yes, thank you. The committee rejected this amendment after consulting constitutionalists that it could be unconstitutional and a risk to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 146 of Lubinz's national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:31]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Intelligence Act (registration number 2412-d). The committee's proposal is to accept it in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:29:24]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u148	The railroad is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we have 26 questions about the agenda: Bill 2351, it's about protecting animals from cruel behavior. These are our European treaties that need to be adopted. There's literally one correction, I know Mr. Matusevich has it. Now let's make the right gesture. I know, Mr. Head, you support zookeepers, too. Let's pick it up in order of the day and vote real quick, it'll take five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u150	There's a lot of lines. Are they going to insist on law enforcement? Jaroslav Ivanovich, what if they insist on editing? I'm putting you up for the vote. Next, it's like a hall. I'm voting on a motion to change the order in which matters are dealt with. Don't scream, please. I would like to vote on the proposal to change the turn of the debate on bill 2351. Please vote. [[13:30:58]] For-143 The decision is not taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law (registration number 2689). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:31:35]] For 210 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to attend. The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich. From the authors and from the committee? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. For your consideration, there is a bill that has been tried for five years in this room. This project refers to an international armed conflict that is taking place in the east. It is primarily governed by international criminal law. To protect who they're targeting, I'll give you a specific list. The first is the victims of armed conflict, wounded and sick people who are committed crimes in occupied areas. They're prisoners of war. And we've seen them come back and testify to the crimes that are committed against them. They are civilians who are in the area of hostilities and temporarily occupied territories. Today, Ukraine does not have the right to defend their rights and to send forth justice. Medical and spiritual personnel are meant to be our doctors who die in the east and are also tortured, including in occupied areas; the priests who work in these areas; the humanitarian personnel who work in the area. Objects under the protection of international humanitarian law are medical formations, hospitals, hospitals, civilian facilities. If a crime is committed against them, it is determined by the crime of international humanitarian law. I would point out that Ukraine has ratified a number of conventions according to which crimes are recognized by Ukraine and which do not last long. In this bill, we propose that the Criminal Code finally identify a clear list of international crimes that Ukraine should investigate on its own and bring to justice. First of all, I stress once again, it's about crimes committed against wounded, prisoners of war, civilians in a temporarily occupied territory. A corresponding attack on these persons is considered a violation of international humanitarian law. What will this law give? First of all, it will not allow for the impunity that is taking place in these territories. Because the problem is that these crimes are now classified as ordinary rape, as a mere kidnapping of a person who is also a crime, but there are periods of age on which they are of an exhaustive nature. This means that most of them will not be able to hold individuals accountable. In fact, Ukraine will refuse to hold these persons accountable. And that means that we say that we have to bring responsibility to the international arena. We'll be unable to do that. Therefore, the most important thing in this bill is that it is important for the persecution of international criminals, international criminals, I stress that they commit crimes in Ukraine in temporarily occupied territories. The project was supported by a number of law - enforcement organizations. I'll name just a few of them: "Centre of Civil Liberties", "Harkow Law Protection Group", the Ukrainian Helsinki Association of Human Rights, "Centre of Human Rights ZMINA", "Ukrainian Law Consultative Group", the Ukrainian Center of Political Reform and many others. The United Nations Monitoring Mission of Human Rights, which operates in occupied areas, as well as the International Red Cross, is also requested to support this project. Colleagues, this is the first reading, all the questions we're going to have, we're going to have to settle for the second. I ask you to support this project throughout the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Please. Is it just the "ES" that insists on discussing it? No, it's not. Then sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for. Fires Volodymyr Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u153	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u154	Chernev Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, this bill has been waiting for about six years. It's a bill that actually refers to war crimes that are taking place today in the occupied territory of Ukraine. These are war crimes committed by the military of the Russian Federation, the militants. These are crimes involving our military, tortured, killed, prisoners of war. And it is these crimes that must be punished, not by age, but by the fact that they are committed. So I ask for your support in the first reading and will ask for your support in the second reading. This is a very important bill. The guilty must be punished regardless of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u156	Vitatrović Volodymyr Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u157	Zabrodski please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u158	Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, does war and any military conflict, except for the better qualities in man, make it even worse? No doubt, yes. Are there any of the heroes of the potter and the bastard? No doubt, yes. Do we want all the punishments of war criminals, regardless of nationality or belonging to any military formation? No doubt. Do we want to bring our legislation closer to European standards? There is no doubt about it either. But what you and I offer under such promising terms is not at all the same. The language in the law is all about other things. The two moments that turn this law into a tool of total pressure and criminal persecution of all, I emphasize, without excluding the force independently of the vestige: both the past, and the active, and the future. First of all, it's an misunderstood phrase, an article, more specifically, about the responsibility of a commander who knew either, as the bill pointed out, or he might have known that his subordinate had committed some kind of crime. And the question to the commander and the charge is not that he was looking for them or that he was unresponsive to his responsibilities. The question is that the commander will be charged with the same thing as his subordinate. And given the paradox of a military case, where we have everyone's subjects and we have a commander, in that case this chain can be extended from a specific criminal, the same rapist, to the Commander-in-Chief. A separate question and a separate trait is the reverse of the law in time. Proponents of the law consider article 7 of the Convention on Human Rights, which states that if action at the time of the act was subject to national legislation, it is already a crime. Very good. This logic can go a long way. For example, those who have brought them into this Hall 30 years ago can also be judged by the laws of the former Soviet Union. "The road to hell is paved with good intentions." This law cannot be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u160	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u161	Sobolje, Fatherland. This may be one of the most difficult laws discussed by the Supreme Council of this calling. On the one hand, we are well aware of our international obligations and of the unratified Rome Statute. On the other hand, we are well aware that we will never attract, through the international judicial institutions of war criminals who abused, came to our territory, occupied and abused our citizens in peace, those who were in the shadow of the U.S.S. in Lugansk, Donetsk. But there's a big "but." On the one hand, everyone understands that ratification, including the Rome Statute, has somehow not taken place in countries like Russia, which has committed not one military aggression, but on the other hand, in countries such as Israel or the United States. In each case, there is a situation where the country thinks of how, on the one hand, to punish the aggressor who came to your land. But on the other hand, do everything possible to ensure that the military will not be harmed in any way, since they are fighting. And fighting must not go beyond what is already the limit for the protection of human rights, freedoms and war crimes. That is why our faction insists on a key norm: this law cannot have reverse force. This should be a principle that will not allow any further use of it in one way or another. All the other questions, I think, will have to be settled when it's processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u162	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u163	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! It's like a normal initiative. Again: the aggressor, the aggressor. You know, we trade or fight with an aggressor. Today, whoever you're yelling about is an aggressor is our country's second-to-first trading partner, Ukraine, I want to remind you. As far as this law was concerned, the question was a very good one. Why are we afraid to join the Rome Statute, and we have signed it that has been in force since 2002? Which was signed by 158 countries, if I'm not mistaken, 122 countries have ratified. And we fear, we fear responsibility before the International Criminal Court. Why? Relse to the gun, is that it? Because any conflict has two sides and the predecessors feared ratifications, feared responsibility. 'Cause that's probably not where they put it. So I think we should go to a meeting today to support this legislative initiative. But we have to be consistent, and if the new authorities are not afraid to be accountable to the International Criminal Court, we need to ratify the Rome Statute, not just sign it. It's a question that shames our country. I appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the head of the profile committee to put this matter to the vote. And then we'll see who's scared and who's scared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u164	Anyone else want to speak? "The Voice," who? Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u165	Dear friends! The biggest problem with this bill is that it didn't show up in the 15th year. This would actually allow us to use it actively already. Yes, we understand all the risks that colleagues have announced. Yes, we need to work to ensure that there are no charges of retrospective action. Yes, it's important, I stress, it's critical, and it'll be the only condition under which Voice can vote in the second reading when it's personal responsibility. And when there's a clear wording: "I couldn't have known," but "provided by the court, the manager knew about the actions of his subordinate." In this case, mechanisms must be put in place to bring primarily Russian criminals to justice. That's why in the first reading, the Voice votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law (registration number 2689). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:46:24]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children to provide a single-time natural care package for a child (registration numbers 3006a, 3006a-1). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:47:14]] For 280 It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to address this issue at this plenary meeting and to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[13:47:46]] For 281 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:48:12]] For 239. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Koval Olga Volodymyrna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u167	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In introducing this bill on giving a child one-time natural birth assistance, I want to focus your attention first on its purpose -- it's at the legislative level to consolidate the natural form of aid. What do we have now? Since June the implementation of the government's package of babies has been suspended, the Antimonopoly Committee has cancelled the purchase procedure. In order to remedy this situation, the government is implementing a so-called pilot project for the micronization of the baby package. So what's this monetary thing? It's getting 5,000 dollars on a bank card at Private Bank. But, colleagues, it's not as simple as you think. In order to receive these funds, parents must take a significant step. This is: visit the Social Security Service, get a credit card at the bank, then they can only go to special stores to buy these necessary goods. Colleagues, this is an unforgivable way. This bureaucratic weight makes life more difficult for parents. Instead, when they could get help with the baby's package, they were already in labor. Colleagues, please, let's return the baby's package, simplify our lives to our parents, and still pay our respects to our country's new life, to our newborn children, to our citizens. Thank you. Please vote in favour, let's return the package.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u168	Royal Natalia Yuriovna, author of an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, dearly present, this is a rare case where we almost agree that the government today is unable to set up an effective aid mechanism and decided to monetaryize it in a very strange way. And it's an obvious device with a lot of corruption risks. And what we welcome today from this legislative initiative that we have decided at the legislative level to regulate the appetites of government and the desire to make money on babies today. And they're like, you know, the ideas that were that you can only get 5,000 at the Privatbank. Well, it was a strange suggestion that you could only buy things in stores that would be defined by the Ministry of Social Policy. Well, Your Honor, it's already called the bottom. I was a minister of social policy, but I wanted to get to the point where I could identify stores that would buy things for kids -- well, respectable ones. So we ask you for a simplified procedure to consider these bills and, if possible, to unify them and develop them for a second reading. Because our proposition is that the cost of a one-time natural aid package for a baby should be increased to three subsistence minimums to expand the recipients of a baby package by introducing foster parents, foster parents, caregivers of a newborn child, and allowing the child's package to reach the age of 1 year. So we ask you to support this bill, until the second reading, to refine and protect children today from the abuse of their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u170	Thank you. The Deputy Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy discussed both bills yesterday at its meeting. As has already been said, these bills propose at the legislative level to address the issue of providing a one-time natural aid -- a package of babies, or a baby boxing. To this day the matter is settled only by the decrees of Kabmin. And on July 29 of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ministry of Social Policy passed a decree on monetaryization, which turned out to be very uncomfortable. No family has ever received such funds. It looks like a quast: two manuals, a queue, then a private bank card, which can only be used in a small list of stores. And this is very embarrassing for those living in rural areas. Bills predict that the "baby's package" is going to be the state's natural aid, and that's the kind of help that families get in the maternity home here and now. The Committee certainly supports this legislative initiative and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill No. 3006a as a basis. At the same time, we thank the author of an alternative bill, and the committee agrees with some of its standards. We will unify, work on second reading. In addition, the committee believes that the issue of granting parents the right to choose whether to receive or receive natural aid or financial compensation should be resolved. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u173	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Of course, the Voice faction will support Bill 3006a. And everyone knows who works in the regions, in the areas, we get a bunch of queries from families of young people about the possibility of actually naturally getting a package of babies. And I know a bunch of families who have given up this complicated card procedure, with the procedure of getting into certain stores, the ability to buy, the things that are defined, by the way, it was also said, by the Ministry of Social Policy. But I want to give you some numbers. According to a UNICEF survey, about 70 percent of families with children experienced the positive impact of the Baby Package on the family budget. And almost half of the recipients, about 49 percent, were able to save substantially on the purchase of baby products during the first months of their lives. The only thing is, of course, it's very good that this is finally being regulated, but how often do we have in Ukraine and on the months especially so that the package itself and the box itself cost less than the content itself. And the entire list, which is supposed to be at a normal price, still came to the parents and didn't come at any higher cost. Thank you. We're going to support 3006a.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u174	Motovlover Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u175	During the development of a similar project, I am very grateful to the National Deputy of the Queen, who pointed to the problem. In fact, two areas -- Luganska and Donetska -- didn't get those little packages. We're changing it with this bill, and they're going to get it. What I want to report. The package of the baby is made up of goods. The localization of Ukrainian producers is 86 percent. Eighty-six percent of budget funding is paid by Ukrainian taxpayers. People who pay the wages of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support during the pandemic not only the social package of the baby, but also the Ukrainian business that works for this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u176	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u178	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, we thank you once again for the important question in this Hall today: How can we support families with children today, and how can we support our country’s birth today? But we all understand very well that a package of babies won't get the country out of a demographic pit. And let's go to the government, but let's get a comprehensive program of supporting Ukrainian families and supporting children today. First of all, how to get out of the demographic crisis. I just want to give you a few digits. That if in 2014, 465,000 900 children were born in our country, in 2019 it was 308,000 children, and in the 6 months of the 20th year it was only 139 thousand. That is, the birth rate in Ukraine nearly doubled. And we already have a situation with you today where mortality is more than twice the birth rate. So it is urgent that we take complex measures today to support Ukrainian families to support young mothers today to support new young families in Ukraine. And "the baby's package," well, it's such a gift from the state. But today we need to index birth payments, today we need to pay the single moms back, today we need to index child care payments with disabilities, and we need to address this in a comprehensive way. So I thank the entire room for bringing us together today to consider this bill, and I appeal to everyone so that we do not end the protection of Ukrainian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u180	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u181	Please give the floor to the national deputy Volodymyr Vátarović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u182	Again: Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u183	Windstorm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u184	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u185	Good afternoon. Of course, the idea of State support for the parents of a newborn child is right. We're ready to support it. But what I want to point out is that the state aid for the baby package has already been operating in Ukraine since 2018, based on the Cabinet of Ministers Decision. The only significant difference is that if, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, parents had the opportunity to choose between a natural gift or its monetary equivalent, the legislative initiative actually deprives them of the possibility of this choice. Because of this, "European Solidarity" is actually supporting this bill in the first reading, but at the same time, given some inconsistencies in terminology, we think we need to talk about further revisions to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u186	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich One minute, it's motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u187	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland, happy father of five children. Of course, it's the Fatherland faction. Thank you, I wish you the same. Of course, the Fatherland faction understands this problem and does not simply understand it. I want to remind you that when I worked for the Timoshenko government in the seventh and tenth years, and then I was a member of the government, we allocated $1.5 thousand to the first child, $3,000 to the second child, $6,000 to the third child. And unfortunately, too big, the government is clearly not reaching out today. And we understand the trend today: 300,000 babies are born, but 580,000 of us are dying. That's why we're proposing. The first is to provide money for this support. Because young people, young moms and dads themselves understand where to buy them, with OLX, the best of these bags. And the last. With the birth of children in the house, order, money, peace, and complacency are lost, and happiness dwells. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u188	Thank you. I've got eyes on Constancewich, Bilozer. Then we vote. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u189	Irina Konstanovic, Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, a party made up of major MPs, of course, will support all the smart and right initiatives that relate to the support of young families and their children. But the point is that the legislative initiative only partially solves the problem. And one single baby boxing is not going to solve the issue of the material provision of young children. The second is that material aid should also provide for material assistance. Therefore, we will prepare for the second reading adjustments that will provide for young families a choice: either material assistance or monetaryization. By the way, what I'm saying is that the Ministry of Social Affairs has developed a monetary order, and it's also smart and correct. And the last. There's not supposed to be any firms that wash government funds. Money must go directly to the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u190	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u191	Larissa Bilozer, Deputy faction of Trust. We know very well how good initiatives in the state then turn into problems for their citizens. It's that case. Because the government has decided to centralize the purchase of 1 billion 220 million in this pilot project, we have a situation like this for 300,000 babies, we have a situation where most regions don't have these packages right now. It's about monetaryization. What I'm saying is that most parents support the very natural way of issuing this package, because we understand that it's a card problem, a special account. You're in line, then you need to. A lot of problems, because you have to look for special shops defined by the state. So this bill is very important, and this story is going to be a lesson for everyone. And more than 70 deputies became co-authors. That's why the Trust Group supports this bill. And I think he's finally going to protect us from these bureaucratic processes, and parents and kids are guaranteed to get the bags.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u192	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on the granting of a single-time natural care package for a child (registration No. 3006a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:27]] For 316 Decision taken. There is a suggestion to shorten the preparation period for the second reading. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. All of it? Not three factions against. I'm voting on the proposal to cut in half the deadlines for preparing the rights and proposals, and to prepare for the second reading of the bill registration number 3006a. Please support and vote. [[14:06:20]] For 275 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on debt relief measures that were created in the wholesale electricity market (registration No. 2389). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:07:07]] For 230 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u193	Dear Dmitry Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, allow me to present Bill 2389. Just a few minutes of your attention, it's an important part of a series of bills, about five of them, we've been pulling this story since last year. To regulate energy balance, and to have fully balanced energy in Ukraine, and to close those debts that have accumulated in previous periods. Thus, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on debt relief measures, which was established in the wholesale electricity market (No. 2389) (since 6 November 2019), has been designed to create conditions for the implementation of the draft Ukrainian Law (No. 2386), which has already been voted on by our Parliament. On June 17, 2020, the Supreme Council adopted the bill as a whole. It defines the legal, economic, and organizational principles of debt repayment that have been established in the wholesale electricity market. Bill 2389, which we are currently considering, regulates the specificities of taxation of debt repayment transactions. For example: After the introduction of the DPA to the statutory capital of NEK "Energot", the latter cancels the debt of DP "Energy", DP "Energy" cancels the debt of DP REM, and DP REM cancels the debt of government coal companies. So you see in this sequence there are a lot of very important businesses. In doing so, tax obligations relating to debt write-offs cannot arise on the chain due to the lack of sources of payment of such tax liabilities in the government mines DP REM and DP “Energy”. The project must be accepted in the first reading during the preparation will take into account all the suggestions. So please support Bill 2389. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u194	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! What is it? You and I passed a bill that became law and has the number 719 on debt relief measures that were created in the wholesale electricity market. It was created as a result of the lack of full carbon cost for coal companies from the state budget. There is also a low level of payment discipline for companies in the Czech Republic. And the third is our situation with Donetsk, the Lugansk region, and also our debt as a result of territorial occupation. The law provides for the cancellation of this debt as one way of settling this problem. This write-off entails the payment of taxes under the applicable Tax Code. To implement the basic law today, we are considering Bill 2389, according to which we foresee the specificities of these write-off operations regarding the payment of corporate income tax, VAT, excise taxes on electricity, and fines and pennies. The committee considered the bill. The bill in some parts has raised objections to the fact that it changes certain standards to which changes have already been made by another law. But all of this can be corrected for second reading, so the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on the basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u196	Needed Discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in. Zarski Maksim Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Kamelchuk Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u198	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u199	Thank you. I'm just predicting now that there will be any discussions against this bill and others on the anti-corruption committee. There's a note on this committee. I understand the direction of the committee’s activities and similar conclusions. But I want to assure you that there are no risks. All procedures are completely harmonized between all departments, ministries, businesses. And this story is only necessary for Ukrainians to actually have a normal balanced energy system in order to stop the debt accumulation. We've been running this story since last year since October, and we're going to continue, and we're going to keep looking at it. So please support this bill in the first reading. We'll work on it with comments from the profile tax committee, we'll take everything into account. And let's finally close this debt energy supply, let's have a balanced energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u200	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u201	Good afternoon. Sergey the All-mighty, Political Force "Our Land" the MP group "Trust." Honorary colleagues, budget holes have already caused a further decline in the economy, a reduction in production and jobs, and Ukraine’s run abroad. We left them no choice but to pay people even for the utility. The Trust MPs will support a bill aimed at repaying the debt that arose in the electricity market. The adoption of this bill will allow the debt of state energy companies to be repaid and their financial situation healed. So the solution to this problem is very important in terms of lowering tariffs for the population and additional revenues for the state budget. The MPs vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u202	Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u203	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! To a balanced energy system, these proposals have a rather circumstantial relationship. I'd like to remind everyone, especially the MPs who were in the past call, how intense the discussion was when we were looking at how to address the issues of cross-borrowing in the electricity market. And you know, there were a couple of options and bills to make this procedure happen in the most transparent way. Do you think that replenishing the statutory capital of the state-owned energy company is money to provide any social benefits or anything else? This is the money of a nation that can be thrown into the air. So you can't look at this system of mutual accounts, you can't get tax exemptions without having a clear view, you can't have a list of these enterprises, you can't have a list of these enterprises, you can't have a tax exemption, you can't have a clear view of them, you can't have a list of these companies, you can have the sums for these companies, you can't have an audit of these debts. I would like to draw your attention to Bill 9079 from 13.09.2018. This system of debt management in the electricity market was proposed in the past and developed jointly with the Ministry of Finance. I don't understand why the Ministry of Finance is now addressing these issues for the repurchase of the National Deputies. This is a significant loss to the state budget. Yes, these debts need to be solved, the issues resolved, but not in a closed way, not by allocating government funds just into such a furnace, into nowhere. This money could be on a much larger scale than if this system and the entire enterprise's interaction were controlled and run by the Ministry of Finance. So we're going to stay out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u204	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u205	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u206	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to our NAB to conduct an investigation into some other MPs and the possibility of getting them flushes for lobbying the interests of a particular financial and industrial group that is referred to as Renata Leonidovich Ahmtova. This is the first time. Second, about this bill. We can clearly see the conclusions of the GNEU, the findings of the experts. The proposed changes refer to the non-existent version of the Tax Code, and there is no justification for the proposed changes. Then, our "For the Future" MP group does not support the introduction of a special mechanism of debt cancellation and tax write-off, which will lead the owners to default. Then we all say that we have 300 billion dollars in the hole budget, and Schmigal calls it a deficit, but we understand that he won't even shut it up with the coffee he was given in Hersonian. And there's no justification for that, there's no justification for the budget spending in this bill. And why do we support certain financial and industrial groups? Give me an answer, please. The tariffs are not reduced; the population pays the highest electricity tariff in the European Union. Unless we live like in the European Union, ask people. No, it's not. That's why we're against this bill, and we're also asking you to support all of our initiatives and vote with a worm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u208	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich is motivated. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u209	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, you followed the discussion closely and cried when a representative of the previous, the Peter Poshenko block, told the party that something was wrong. So you leave this new team to your predecessors this debt. Are they able to resolve this issue? Well, they don't make the best decisions, but at least they try. Of course, the question must be balanced. On the one hand, if there are preferences given to suppliers, we need to give similar preferences to those who have consumed this electricity today — our citizens. Therefore, the first reading should address this issue, and it should continue to be balanced. We need to get out of the interests of citizens who today have huge debts and not just get out of the market situation. People's interests are first of all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u210	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption based on the Committee's proposals for a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on debt relief measures that have been established in the wholesale electricity market (registration No. 2389). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:20:45.]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on debt relief measures established in the wholesale electricity market (Registration No. 2389). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:21:28]] For 234 Decision taken. The procedure consists of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the next two bills not to be considered today – 3016 and 3817.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, are there any objections to today’s consideration of 3016 and 3817? You don't? Let's move on. Do you deny it or not? I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the day and the proposal not to consider Bill 3016 today. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:22:34]] For 218. The decision is not taken. It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:23:04]] For 206 Decision taken. The Vice - Chief of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u213	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Today we're looking at bills to counter foresteling in the tobacco market. Foresteling is a scheme for underpayment of excise taxes, which is actively used by cigarette manufacturers and importers of tobacco products. In Ukraine, tobacco excises rise by 20 percent on January 1 each year. Before this increase, cigarette manufacturers and importers create stock stocks for 2 to 6 months and pay excise duties at existing rates at that time. They sell these shipments after they raise their rates, i.e. they don't pay 20 percent of the excise duty. It's called foresteling. Foresteling is a direct damage to Ukraine's state budget. The purpose of the bill is the rhythmic payment of excise taxes on the tobacco market at current rates. In this regard, we propose European standards for Ukraine. On March 15, 2006, Ukraine ratified the WHO Framework Convention against Tobacco. This convention highlights methods of combating foresteling and combating smoking. I quote. "The limitation of over-expenditures of tobacco products immediately before tax increases. The other one. Compilation of additional taxes on products that have already been produced or stored in storage, but this is not put on the end-user, including in broken-down networks." End of quote. By 2016, authorities were already trying to limit the foresteling schemes. Sales restrictions were imposed in the fourth quarter of the year on excise duties. The limit has been set to 115.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u214	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Kovalovo Aleksija Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u215	Good afternoon, dear fellows! My Alternative Bill 3016-D. The bill was supported by professional organizations, was also supported by the Ministry of Finance, but was not supported by the committee in one vote. Although the bill reflects the picture that is now there. And you have to accept it. I want to say a few words about the 3016-d bill, which is rather questionable, because in this bill it is possible to risk corruption, because it determines that cigarette manufacturers should actually report in nine months and that they may have 115 percent of the actual implementation of that product. This significantly reduces the competitiveness of the producers themselves. And I urge everyone not to vote in 3016-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u216	Thank you. The word is given to Hetmansz Danil Alexanderovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I will explain what these laws are in two words so that everyone can understand. We have an annual increase in excise duties on tobacco products by 20 percent. In order not to pay for increased excise duties, manufacturers of tobacco products buy the excise stamp in advance and produce so - called commodities. Thus, the budget is undercalculated at about 2 billion dollars. It is about setting limits in the law on the purchase of excise stamps in advance so that manufacturers do not abuse them. So we're talking about additional revenue to the budget. In view of the above, we had a difficult discussion on the committee. We've considered both bills, draft bill "d," as the previous reporter rightly said, with the advantage of one vote, it was supported. Therefore, the Committee's decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 3016-d as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Bullach Lady Valentinovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u219	Friends and colleagues, I ask you to find time to return to the hall and support the committee bill 3016, which proposes to support our commitments. If we have already decided to increase excise duties by 20 percent every year in order to reduce consumer access to tobacco, to prevent tobacco consumers from saving and buying excise duties in advance of the new year in order to make this product cheaper next year and not to pay off their sales to the state budget. Please support this bill, there are no risks, on the contrary, that is the implementation of our long-term policy between the European Union in the context of increasing the value of tobacco products and reducing smoking in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u220	The word is given to the National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u221	Nicolanca, Fatherland. We've been looking at all of these drafts, and option "d" is a compromise on which all the representatives of the committee have come together. Since this story about buying ahead of time at the end of the year, it's not just the direct damage to the budget when we don't keep the excise in the first quarter of next year, it's actually creating the possibility for cigarette distributors, especially monopolies, to do it in a way that then plays the price and prices a little bit lower at the beginning of the year. That's what this leads to. This also leads to more people buying. Excise is what? It is a tax for people, including for such a bad habit that beats health, to stop, including fighting bad habits and alcohol. And in doing so, we want to give or leave as one of the options in the bill, so that this rule remains. All the big players are doing it. And there was already an attempt by parliament in the 16th year to do so. But then it didn't work, because monopolies and manufacturers turned out to be smarter. And they did what they're doing in the fourth quarter, in the third quarter. In option "d," this gap is closed. And I think it'll work for both the budget and the health of the Ukrainians. So the "Fatherland" faction will support and encourage support for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u222	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u223	I'd like to give Nina Petrovni a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u224	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u225	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! In accordance with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU in 2018, amendments were made to the Tax Code, with excise duties on tobacco products increasing by 20 per cent each year by 2025 and thus reaching the limit or, more faithfully, the amount of the value to be paid by producers of 90 euros per thousand. Today it is almost 30 euros. But a gradual movement by the 25th year, and we will comply with the terms of the Association Agreement. In order to avoid the budget losses that many colleagues have been talking about here, it was introduced in 2017, by the way, for the first time, a mechanism that could not exceed 115 percent of the average monthly amount of tobacco in the third quarter. Indeed, tobacco companies have begun to rebuild their work and sell more in the third quarter of this year in order to have more opportunities and to purchase pre-tax stamps. But, colleagues, Bill 1316-d is like black and white. Listen, please. On the one hand, it seems that there is a strong safeguard against the volume of stamp purchases. On the other hand, when the bill was drafted, considerable potential multibillion dollars were allowed into the budget. This is because the exceeded amounts will be taxed only at a specific rate, without applying the ad valorem rate. Thus, the budget will not receive significant revenue from the premium class tobacco products. We lobby for the interests of large transnational companies. Please, this is another war of tobacco companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u226	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u227	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll try to explain in human language what's going on in plain language. It's about our producers actually saving every year, and I call it "taken away from the state," or tax payers, about 2 billion dollars in a very nice and simple way. They shop for the following year in advance of excise stamps, produce pre-produced products that are sold in the following year, where excise duties are usually increased by paying excise duties in the previous period. And every year, the state, especially our taxpayers, loses 2 billion dollars. In fact, it is now proposed to implement European practice when excise stamps are bought evenly throughout the year. And no one can buy in advance the previous year the excise stamps that are due next year. I have some interest here, to be honest. I'm just trying to breathe cigarettes, so I'm pissed off a few times. Not enough money is stolen, and so are people. So I think we have now to demonstrate the absolute responsibility, the unity, and we're going to see who's "ears grumble" for which our individual colleagues, our tobacco barons, are hanging. But the Barons, they're kings. Our citizens pay for it with their health and money. So now we have this issue of settlement. Money is for people! I wish everyone health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u228	Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. All those who wish to speak? Prepare for the vote, please. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the excise tax administration mechanism for the implementation of tobacco products) (registration No. 3016-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:37:51]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Act (registration number 3016-d). Please support the vote. [[14:38:29]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the day’s order was also proposed to be postponed. 3817. There's no objection? None. Let's move on. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of specific issues of activity and the organization of public authorities, local self-government authorities in connection with the establishment (registration) of areas (registration number 3651). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:39:23]] For 204 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories Negoda Vijacheslav Andriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u229	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As you know, in the summer of this year, 1,469 territorial communities and 136 districts were created by decision of the government and parliament of Ukraine. So, as planned, on October 25, local elections will take place on a new territorial basis and appropriate councils and community heads will be selected. But will they be able to start their work without adequate legislative provisions? No, they won't. It has been two months since Parliament's decision on the new areas, but the government is unable today to reorganize the administrations that continue to operate within the old areas, which has had a negative impact on the effectiveness of the entire system of executives. Honourable national MPs, in the context of changes in the administration to guarantee the stability of legal and other relations, must ensure continuity in the implementation of the tasks and powers of the State and local self-government. This requires the adoption by Parliament of the 3651 bill, which was passed by the government at the same time as the Districts Act. And this bill deals with a number of issues, particularly with the restructuring of legal persons of public law – local councils, executive boards of councils, district councils, district government administrations and the completion of their powers. The other one. In the order of the succession of self-governance bodies in newly formed communities and areas, the delimitation of property of territorial communities and property in the administration of district councils. It is important to establish the principle of universality, that is, the extension of the powers of the population throughout the community, not just of the population. Well, there's a number of other questions. The law also regulates the specificities of individual rights in the context of changes to the administration, and so on, and an important norm is the authorization of the government to establish and eliminate district administrations. There are separate provisions of the bill, including the elderly who have lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u230	Thank you. The word is given by the Committee of the Third Sea Galina Mikolayivna. Yeah? I'm sorry, Toothless Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u231	Toothless. Head of the Committee on Public Authority Organizations, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of the city of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u232	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Governmental Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed at its meeting on September 2, the draft Ukrainian Law on Registration 3651. The Committee believes that certain provisions of the old age law need to be excluded from the bill because they are already regulated in the Electoral Code. In addition, the committee points out that according to article 92 of the Constitution, the legal regime of ownership is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. Taking into account the provisions proposed in the bill concerning the granting of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers to define specificities and to approve the reorganisation of property, rights and duties belonging to the District Councils as legal persons of public law, they seem insufficiently justified. The committee also notes that the provisions of the bill, which state that the newly elected district councils, representing the common interests of the territorial communities formed by the Supreme Council, are the successors of all property, rights and duties of the district councils, territories that have been included in the area concerned. At the same time, the adoption of this bill is critical for the completion of the next phase of decentralization reform and the formation of a new administrative and territorial system of the country. Following a comprehensive discussion of the above-mentioned issue, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules, draft Ukrainian Law (No. 3651) as a result of the first reading. The Committee also decided to request the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to declare, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules on the need for proposals and amendments on corrections, clarifications, deletion of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u233	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Write two in, two in, and two in factions. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u234	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u235	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u236	Dear friends, dear colleagues, this is an important bill, which we, thank God, are still able to consider in plenary today, not postponing it. Because you realize that we've eliminated this decision, we've scaled up the district councils, the districts. And accordingly, we have a further stage of administrative and territorial reforms in the liquidation of district government administrations, district government administrations. So in fact, if we don't now define the succession in a part of a lot of powers, that is, we're going to have power under our feet. So when we go to the local elections, we have to give hope, I think to the local communities that the property will remain in the newly created communities, not in the district councils. And obviously, it's very clear that we're going to fund everything so it's going to be the continuity of the financing of the community and no one's worried about running out of money. But I think that before the second reading, we need to make a substantial revision of this bill, write out what should govern the Cabinet of Ministers by its own regulations, and obviously write down all the criteria of the law enforcement institution with a broader sense of succession than what is envisaged today's draft law. Thank you. Our "For the Future" MP will support this project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u237	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u238	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u239	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u240	Thank you, Your Honor, Stepan Ivanovich, Mr. Head. On the one hand, there are some positive developments in this bill that have just been mentioned. And this is about the possibility of dividing clear property between district councils and OTG councils, and legal succession, and the principle of universality. Here are things that really need to be settled in some way, because they're urgent. But I'm sorry, there are a number of things that are unacceptable, and in principle, they have already been considered in the session room. And the session room was determined not to accept them. I'm just going to remind you of last week's discussion about who's supposed to be disposing of district government administrations. And in this room there was a failed bill, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, on this issue. Because then, including my proposal, most of the national deputies agreed that this was not part of the constitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, but was the mandate of the President of Ukraine, who formed these district and district administrations. Here, with the silence of one of the changes, it is proposed to amend the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the local government administrations, where these norms are once again proposed to be left behind and restored in our Ukrainian legislation. These things are unacceptable. And we're definitely against it like we did last time. Moreover, we do not understand why complex changes to the Electoral Code are proposed. You and I have agreed that the Electoral Code will be amended only by a separate law. It was the consensus decision of all political factions. Here we have a slightly different principle than the one laid down in the Electoral Code, which will allow us to choose old age in all cities that are not community centers. I don't know about this practice in the world. I checked it out. Nowhere in the world is the concept of "age of the city," is the concept of "age of the village and the village," but there's the whole concept of "mary of cities." Here, in fact, we squander mayors and deprive citizens of their rights to choose a city’s head. In addition, we deprive ourselves of the right of old age to be part of the executive committee of the council, which was absolutely logical and correct. So I'm asking you, honourable colleagues, very carefully and carefully to approach such bills. You have to read them to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u241	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, what they did with this law when the rules of the Electoral Code were added, my colleague said so. Well, what age in cities? Where are you taking us? Do you want another two-man in the cities? The second question. Why do we cheat on those who are going to the elections now? We introduce performances in the district and district councils in the newly created ones, do we not introduce performances? You read this law. But that's the key question he had to settle. What do district council members, circuit councils, now go to and choose? And Parliament does not answer that question. We're only interested in how these boundaries will be redistributed? Who gives you the right to change areas? You read this law. Do you want to continue editing and destroying entire areas? Can't you see that? Next question. We've just considered the changes to the Budget Code and to the budget for lower-chain taxes. Please tell me, what about the key tax, the citizen's income tax? They changed the name of the area, united. Where does this tax go? A village, a village, or a place of business registration? Are we going to fool people again? All businesses are registered either in large cities or in Kiev. And what's going to result from this? So I think all of these attempts at cosmetic changes that are being made are all about forgetting the question of performance. This is what newly elected deputies are doing to resolve these issues, not to impose them on some incomprehensible vertical. And the second question. As long as we don't settle this issue, there will be no movement. The faction won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u243	The alien Boris Viktorovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u244	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished deputy minister of community and territory development, dear Ukrainians! I think, without exaggeration, there is one of the days of local self-government here in the Supreme Council Hall. Because you and I have taken such an important step today, and we have adopted this bill that lowers the tax base. And it is 60 percent of the income of PDF that will go to the local communities, not to the district councils. So let us work together and continue to benefit from the development of our local communities. After all, the formation, entrenchedness, and destruction of these areas led to the need to correct the conflict between the authorities and the local authorities. So I urge you, colleagues in the Hall, let's change this bill to such an age-old struggle, an age-old competition for influences in places between local district authorities, or local RDAs, and between local, urban, rural, rural councils. You and I need to anticipate the succession of this property from district councils to local communities, not local administrations, to local communities. And it is clear that this important law, without exaggeration, needs much more work. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading. I call on the profile committee to work on it quickly, and before the local council elections, we can vote on it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u245	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 1 minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u246	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. People: All power to the councils, to the people. I heard it somewhere a little more than a year ago. What do we have? Ages and so on. You know, before they formed these compounds, people had to be asked: In what way do they want to exchange? That's what you promised them: power is people, everyone, little bits, president. And now you don't even want to become a member of the executive board. I think this law is one that can't be supported by normal people, and you'll feel it on October 25. That's where you get your grade. And it's about the pro-Russian MPs. The previous vote has shown that we have more pro-Russian deputies. And when you leave, look at the dome, which flag is there. The time has come for us to become Ukrainians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u247	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, what kind of bill are we looking at right now in the hall? We're looking at a bill where the Chief Research Authority said that there are a number of rules that violate the Constitution. For some reason, bills, including opposition factions, that have the smallest legal notices, are not overlooked by the committees. And in the room, we're still looking at a number of government bills on one line, unconstitutional, curves, hairs and so on. The Voice faction has consistently supported all decentralization laws throughout the year in Parliament, except for the incomprehensible division of regions, the abandonment of district councils, district administrations, which is inadequacy with government programmes and the work programme of the Supreme Council. We understand very well that there is now a need to save local self-government, because a lot of issues are open, a lot of problems are unresolved. So in the first reading, the Voice faction will support this bill, but if it doesn't change radically for the second reading, there will be no votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u249	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the organization of individual issues of activity and the organization of public authorities, local self-government authorities in connection with the establishment (equipment) of areas (registration number 3651). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:55:50]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for a motion for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of Law 3651. Please support and vote. [[14:56:19]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is draft Law 2203. Suggested without discussion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the restriction of the joint work of close persons (registration No. 2203). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:57:04]] For 249 Decision taken. All of it? Papiev v. No, I can put it all together. Are you against related persons, Mikhail Mikolaiovich? Why don't we put it all together? Thank you. A common position. I was wrong. I'm sorry, a person. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the joint work of close persons (registration No. 2203). Ready to vote? Please support and vote? [[14:58:33]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I announce the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, may I have another announcement? Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an interfractional parliamentary association "For the Rights of Children with Special Educational Needs". The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Drought of Paul Mikolaiovich, Grishna Julius Mikolayovna, Kachuru Alexandr Anatoliyovich, and Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich. Thank you. And, honourable colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with the decision of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People" of September 14, 2020, I report that the political party "Slut of the People" has been expelled from the parliamentary faction "Slut of the People" of Ukraine by Jurchenek Alexander Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-17-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 3 p.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
