ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u1	Good evening, dear fellows! Good evening, media outlets, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask representatives of the factions and groups to join us for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. As a reminder, registration takes place by clicking on the pros button. Green, that's right, Sergey Volodymyrovich, yes. Only green, yes, of course. Are you ready to register? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:06:50]] There are 347 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The agenda is open to all of you. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u2	Thank you. Thank you. It's very nice to meet you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that any authority is taking a step into the chasm when it loses three main things: memory, hearing and sight. That is, when the authorities forget their promises, they stop hearing ordinary people and do not see the need for change. It's not about us. And as proof, we are gathered here today. Everyone understands the main question. It's the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let us be objective with you. This government has won. This is a decline in inflation, the National Bank of Ukraine account rate, the fight against shadow markets, such as gambling and illegal ASF, which is the beginning of privatization of state-owned enterprises that have been looting all these years. And that's true. These are loans to small and medium-sized businesses, a decline in the role of the state in our country's economy. But the truth is that today the Ukrainians are not enough. And that's true. Yeah, really, it's the first government where there's no top-corruption. But not stealing is not enough. It's a government of new faces. But the face is too small. New brains and new hearts are needed. [[Applause]] This government knows what to do, but not enough to know. It takes really, really much work, you have to do. Nor should we fear the truth. We have to admit mistakes. Because the day we sink into a warm bath of illusion, the whole country will sink. We've heard of economic leaps all the time, but there's a sense that the economy has taken turns, stumbled, and is risking a face-to-face ride on the ground. In the two months of the new year, the failure to implement the budget is almost 16 billion dollars. We have to tell the truth. 13 of them is a tax evasion. The business is doomed to signal that the smuggling has not completely disappeared. And we were told about a determined and uncompromising fight against smuggling. But for now, it looks like in this fight, smuggling sent customs to knock out. And that needs to be changed. It's very necessary. Customs is supposed to collect, I'm sorry, not on Facebook, but on government spending. [[Applause]] And we only tell each other the truth. We have to do this. Another pain we're in is a 5 percent drop in industry. And it lasts a fourth month in many sectors. Unfortunately, the government did not give tools that stimulate domestic production and new production capacities. Ukraine’s industrial glory is gradually becoming a memory. We risk that our industrial potential will soon be told: It was long ago, and it was not true. The next question is utility payments. We actually signed a gas transit contract. We met the winter with record reserves in the vaults, reduced the price of gas for our population. Today, it is 35 percent lower than last year and is the lowest in four years. But people got confused because of the chaos with the payments in January and February. Somewhere, they've gotten smaller, somewhere -- no, someone's got a subscription for delivery of gas a few months ahead of schedule, and they've figured out who hasn't been using it at all. In fact, I think that the government has failed to explain, is the most important, explanatory campaign, communication and work with the local authorities in order for people in all regions to experience a real reduction in payment for heat. And that's not the only thing that needs to be reduced, frankly. The concept, for example, of ministers' salaries, it's reviewed, it's true. Payments are down. But there is a question about the salaries and bonuses of many members of the Supervisory Boards. We understand that there are market laws. We don't suggest that we pay the minimum by populism. But I'm sorry, when more than 10 million citizens live on the poverty line, there can't be such payments to people who, on the boards of oversight, fly twice or three times a year to Ukraine. In fact, oversight has become more advantageous in Ukraine than working. [[Applause]] And with all due respect for our international partners, we, indeed, with all due appreciation for their help, are now citizens of our country on the oversight boards of our enterprises feeling like a national minority. [[Applause]] We do not question the transparency or efficiency of the work of foreigners; no, their contribution to the fight against corruption is just a matter of justice and our sense of subjectivity. [[Applause]] Our next pain is the situation with coal miners and coal industries. Yes, these problems have existed for many years, for 15 years. But today, this is our legacy and this is our responsibility. First of all, it's about the wages of miners and the sale of Ukrainian coal. The problem was in the summer. Everyone intervened. Honestly, I can tell you, it's not normal, but I've intervened, too. The problem arose again, and I intervened again. And this week, 650 million dollars of debt will be repaid to miners. [[Applause]] But I want to tell you, I just, really, I can't be a psychologist for people every time, and a crisis manager for some, and a collector who requires honest-earned money, and a babysitter for the department of profile. Especially with regard to the scarecrows of the Ministry and many politicians and politicians about the closure of mines. I would like to point out that closing the mine doesn't mean closing the question. So first, people's education and retraining, creating new jobs, providing the same as at least the same wage, and only then can we raise questions about closing one or the other non-profit mine. Only in this order. And tell me, please, what imports of foreign electricity and coal might be like when our miners are not protected by the state of Ukraine. These are thousands of miners and these are their families. Next. Even more, unfortunately, painful figures are more than 11 million pensioners. The real plan to raise their pensions, he may be somewhere, but communicationally he's missing. We didn't hear anything, society didn't hear anything about it. Most pensioners receive less than 2,000 dollars. No pension index is currently in progress. The 80 - year pension scheme has not yet been implemented, and we are fighting so much for it and we are talking so much about it. The pension fund remains a huge, inefficient car that just spends 5 billion dollars on its maintenance. Against this background, the pensioners and other socially vulnerable categories of citizens have only one question — what is behind us and what will happen next? The situation is similar in the area of health care, and it is true. I realize that it's very difficult for the MOH to work with the wreckage of the medical system that they have left behind. It was difficult to lift a patient who had been given deserts and tea with a romach for many years instead of normal human treatment. And I really thank Mrs. Skalecki for staying with the people, with the Ukrainians in the New Sanars, for her courage. But in our medicine, courage cannot be a one - time action. It takes courage to admit that many are not ready for the second stage of the April 1 medical reform. That's true. [[Applause]] Almost every day we have protests in various medical institutions. People are afraid of hospital closures, hospitals are afraid of layoffs, local authorities are not prepared to take responsibility at times, there is insufficient funding, and so forth, many reasons. There are big questions for medical equipment tariffs and very big questions for personnel. And so the main question is, where do we go now? Where are we going? Does it not seem to us that with this approach, reform is flying into the wall? In fact, of course, a particular topic is the coronavirus. I want to calm everyone down, we have the first confirmed case, it's true, but the situation under control, all the necessary measures taken. And I think the first briefing of the new minister of health will be dedicated to this particular topic. Among other things, today we will hear the long-awaited report of all of them, and many of them are the law-enforcement organs of Ukraine. You know, the President doesn't have a bearing on their work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Unfortunately, they're the ones who scream "oh." [[Applause]] But I would like to give our law enforcement authorities two gifts. The first is the calendar. He has to remind you that it's springtime in the yard. [[Applause]] The second is the Criminal Code of Ukraine. There's a suspicion that some don't have it, unfortunately. I hope he'll be your desk book. It's good that you're a human being. Congratulations. At the summer meeting, the law enforcement authorities, you said unanimously, we have everything, we only need political will. Political will. What is it? I gave it to you. Take it, you've got it. We've got to cancel the phone bill. Please cancel. Please take this. No one puts down names that need attention or vice versa. [[B in m in s a l in]] Except for yours. Yeah. [[Applause]] If I intervened, some people would have felt it by now. How can I not interfere with your work to finally bring about the result, please tell me? Which everyone is waiting for: both Ukrainian citizens, and our international partners, and D.B.I., B.S.A., S.A.P., N.A.U.U.U., M.A., the Attorney General's Office. We already have six in the country, six bodies to ensure order, justice, justice. Is it not enough for another body to finally implement the saying of seven babysitters with a child without an eye? We've undertaken a series of reforms, we've launched a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, we've done everything: we've reloaded NAZC, we've returned responsibility for illegal wealth -- I'm grateful to the Supreme Council, I'm grateful to the Servant of the People party, to all the deputies who voted for it, I'm grateful -- we've passed the Anti-Corruption Act. How long have Ukrainian society been waiting for results in the most resonant matters? We promised citizens victory over corruption. It's not even "anyone's" right now. Dear Ukrainians, I went to the presidents without political experience, but I also had faith and will to make the necessary changes. Everybody knows the words of Václav Gavella: "Better five years of mistakes than 50 years of sabotage." Yes, that's true. We make mistakes, many, but we are willing to acknowledge them and correct them. I want to address our international partners separately. We appreciate and appreciate your constant support. And our course remains unchanged, and for us the priorities are constant, and we all want and we do everything, believe me, every day to end the war on Donbassa and to return all our territories, because this is our country. And we will continue on the path of reform in all areas. Ukraine’s course is not wrong, but some mistakes are made during the course, yes. You know, I'll tell you honestly, I am, and that's true, not ashamed of our government. But we'd like to be proud of them. It's true, this government has done more than all past governments, I don't know. Yeah? [[Applause]] But let me tell you, it's rather a negative. Minus. [[Noise Nodes]] I thank you for all you've said. Thank you. Thank you. You can say "stay" for the fifth time. Thank you. But it's faster. Still, I want to finish. But it's rather a negative, it's the previous cabinets, it's not a positive, it's our government. Today, in the internal political field of existing problems and the existing government, they're more, it's my opinion, they can't exist next door, and so one of them has to go. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexia Hotcharuk is filing an application for his resignation. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to give an assessment of this application by their personal vote. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u3	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decree on the resignation of Prime Minister of Ukraine Hončaruk Aleksija Valeriyovich (registration number 3158). The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Honcharuk Oleksija Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u4	Dear friends! Dear Ukrainians! As the president said, there was no theft in this government. We had no corruption; we fought it systematically from the first to the last day. [[Applause]] And I want there to be no unnecessary manipulation, so I want to put the dots over the "and" and start with the most important. Back in September, in the beginning, in a big business forum, journalists asked me about corruption, about Centrenerego. I want to make it clear that by the end of the heating season, I had promised that this problem would be solved, and now we've already secured an audit and management decision in this company. But it's not a special company. There are dozens of companies like this. Our government has changed the management of dozens of companies, at the airport, at Artemsol, at Energoatom, and so on. This list can be continued for a very long time. We fought corruption in all the areas entrusted to us by the President, the Parliament and the Ukrainian people. We've covered up a lot of shadow schemes, so we've had tons of dirt in the media over the last few months. But. But we have not retreated, and I want to thank our ministers for this, who have repeatedly endorsed complex decisions. I've had enough. Thank you. [[Applause]] I'm pretty optimistic about our future. I think we have a very good president, that he's a very decent, honest man. During my work with him, I had never received any illegal teams, no hint of any dishonest play. [[Applause]] So I have no doubt that the course will be maintained, and I want to make this very clear to everyone. Six months is a very short deadline for assessing the work of any government. But I'm sure the Ukrainians already feel our work with you, for example, in their bills. We've done quite a lot of things. We've ensured macroeconomic stability. We have a record of low inflation. We have made a record of record low quality and advantageous distribution of Eurobonds. We've put record numbers on privatization, we've run successful concession contests, and we've done many, many, many with you. But I understand that this may not be enough. We did all this with you. I believe that there are so many national MPs in the room who want Ukraine to be a prosperous country. So I urge you not to lose pace, not to change direction. All that we've started together has to be done. Land market reform, free circulation of capital, liberalisation of labour relations -- all of this, my friends, we need to make a decision. In doing so, I will work to ensure that Ukraine succeeds regardless of its status. Thank you for your trust and the opportunity to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. President, the country's distinguished national deputies. The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, discussed today, at its meeting, Prime Minister Alexi Honcharuk of Ukraine's statement on resignation. According to article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, the decision on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine belongs to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine has the right to declare his resignation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has been dismissed from office since the date of his resignation at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign the Prime Minister of Ukraine has resulted in the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After considering the application for the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexi Honcaruk. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions and the MPs: two in favor, two in favour, and one in favour of everyone who hasn't signed up. Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich, "Sergeant of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u8	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alexander Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u9	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u10	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Alexei Valeriyovich, a respected member of the Cabinet of Ministers, you know, you must be a government in the history of Ukraine that has come to carry out its duties with the greatest support. You are the youngest government in the history of Ukraine. But you and the government that exercised their powers are the smallest amount of time. You have certainly entered history, and this is a very courageous act on your part -- filing a statement, of course. There have been many positive things done by the government in your time of leadership. It's also a detinction of the economy, that's what you've just hit on a lot of corrupt people in state enterprises and ministries. And that's why you've got huge information critics, and we understand that too. But from the first day we appointed you here, I approached you, remember, then, Alexy Valeriyovich, I said, "You don't have three months, you don't have a year, you start counting your work from the first few days." And indeed, communication with the Supreme Council has been underworked, I think you admit. And it was very often very difficult for us to reach out to the government, because those national MPs, especially the majors, who walk the earth, they know people's problems, they couldn't explain it. Clearly, there were calculations in the industry. We won't cover, we don't have a caste of untouchables, and we think the right decision for today is to file your resignation application. So we thank you for your work. We will appoint a new government, a government that can implement a programme – a program for the people of Ukraine. That's what your program was called, and that's exactly what the program will be for the government to appoint our parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u11	Thank you. It's a binoculars. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u12	Dear Mr. President, my fellow Members, I think this Hall has repeatedly seen that our parliamentary group for the future, due to respect for the President, has repeatedly saved the government and helped to resolve some of the issues that have simply failed through the hall, and the government has not been able to give order to the economy, to the industry, to the energy, to the transport and not to Ukraine's economic policy at all. I'm not talking about a social bloc that's totally failing, I'm not talking about a government-run block that's been talked about over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. We have held numerous meetings in an effort to help the government quietly. There were dozens of documents that were missing. They passed a lot of their suggestions on how to solve each issue. Regrettably, few have heard of it and have rarely paid much attention to it. It seemed to the government that the majority would always support it, and it would always be possible to rule and do nothing but create chaos. Unfortunately, today we see the consequences of this policy, these approaches. I think there's a reformation coming up. The whole country understands that new faces are good, but you have to be professional, you have to have support in every field of people who know what to do, not experiment. That's why we have often supported, not criticized, not to "sink this ship" but to support the President's policies. And even when there was nothing to be commended for, we quietly helped to resolve the matter. But today we're refueling. The government needs to understand that there is a time when there is no longer the right to experiment. We need to urgently save the economy, deal with social problems, deal urgently with the issues that people are looking forward to and promised during the elections. That's why we support the President's proposals. We'll vote in resignation. And we're going to figure out that there's a redundancy today when there's a new chance of making qualitative changes in the country. We expect these changes from the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u13	Thank you. Jurchisin. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u14	Mr. President, you've had a long and emotional speech. But we didn't hear one thing that was very important. You never said I was wrong. And that's what happened. Six months ago, a government was appointed. New faces, yeah, some of the experience, some of them don't. But he was assigned to the promises, what he would have to do. We've already warned you, my friends, that there are professional decent people there, let's look at them separately, let's vote. You didn't listen to us then. And now we have the consequences of that mistake. But the worst part is that instead of admitting mistakes, we're proposing a new government, a new face with old sins that worked both at Yanukovich and at Poshenko and at Yushchenko, and probably at Kuchma. Is that what we wanted? No! No! And the worst thing to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, is this the parliamentary-presidential republic, when most of you don't even know the economic bloc of government? Is this the parliamentary-presidential republic when, with you and the coalition, they don't agree with any ministers? No! No! So our faction, with all due respect for the institution of parliamentaryism, will demand that one -- that the next government be appointed. Personally every minister we heard his program what he did, and only after that was it determined whether we would have new ministers or not. Without that, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u15	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u16	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Mr. President, today, unfortunately, everyone has to come to you. And that's one reason. I don't think after this government was created, the President can't go against this government. Likewise, I am convinced that today Parliament cannot fail to send this Prime Minister and this government to resign. But is this the main thing? Is it important to draw conclusions and what next? We continue to understand that the only sector of the economy that has pulled the country out of a terrible crisis in recent years is the agricultural sector. It's very easy for you to check all the statistics. And what do we have instead? Trying to get an agrarian sector through a weak Latin American land reform. We don't understand that in order to pay off 600 million miners, the government has been thinking since March 1st not to index pensions to 11 million pensioners. And this list can go on and on and on. We don't understand that if the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health don't immediately begin to reform medicine because of the introduction of insurance medicine, from April 1st, it will be not a day of laughter, it will be a day of crying. We vote in favour of the Prime Minister's resignation, but what's the point? And then we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u17	Thank you. For reasons, Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, respected citizens of Ukraine, I listened to this talk, even applauded several times, but I could not understand who was doing it – Golobordko or Zelenski. At the end of the day, a machine would appear! And if Zelenski did, who did you refer to? You're the one who brought this government to power! You're the one who brought these guys to power! You're the one who assembled this Supreme Council! That's why it's your fault that there's such a hole in the budget! It's your fault that they're collecting bribes and bribes at the customs office instead of raising money in the budget! It's your fault your deputies are offering to sell the dog to pay for the gas! It was you who brought here the rapist who continued to sit here, in which you promised to take the mandate! And that's why you were going to end up saying, "I am guilty to the people of Ukraine and to me."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u19	Your time is up. Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u20	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I want to say that from the very beginning our party was against the very beginning was against that economic policy that this weak government had proposed. In six months, we saw that all macroeconomic indicators had failed. It's not the best government, it's one of the least effective. We see a decline in industry, a decline in GDP, record unemployment. And we see record debt on salary. This has never been the case in Ukraine’s recent history. And it's not 28 years of independence failure, it's six months of specific team failure. They're all clear. I want to tell the President and you, fellow MPs from the "Serve of the People." We are not interested in changing faces, we are interested in a new economic course, a new budget, a new government programme and a completely new economic policy. Cancelling land laws and others they proposed. Repealing laws on metallurgy, concessions, and privatization of strategic objects And then the economy of Ukraine will be successful, and the citizens will live with dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u22	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. President and distinguished colleagues! In fact, the President hears them talking to him. I am grateful to have built a city in the continental Lugansk region and brought Lugansk together peacefully with the occupied territories. Thank you for hearing about the miners, Vladimir Alexandrovich. But you're being lied to and deceived. We need to hear more than ministers. And the Trust MPs will vote in favour of today's Prime Minister's resignation, and I'd like to see the full repositioning of the Cabinet of Ministers. You hear that miners ’ families are suffering today. Today, there is a famine in the city of Girski in the district of the Great. I have thousands of texts coming from people who are starving today. So notice not the closure of mines, but the modernization of the coal sector, the modernization of all businesses and the return of miners from abroad, from Poland, where they work abroad today, they send.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u23	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85, 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3158) on the resignation of Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexia Valeriovich Honcharuk. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:48:43]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there's a break of 20 minutes, until 5:10. Please. The head of the Supreme Council announced a break of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, please invite the national MPs to the hall. I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine, Green Vladimir Alexandrovich, is present. [[Applause]] Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, 114 of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Constitution, are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission by the President of Ukraine. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes most of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has submitted its proposal for a candidate for the post of Prime Minister to the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an appointment of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. To represent the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, I give the floor to the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u25	Thank you. Thank you very much. Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainians, guests, journalists! I'm very short. I really think that the previous government has done everything possible, but today the Ukrainians need a government that will do the impossible. I hope that's what the next Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be like. You know, we've had a lot of governments these years. The government of technocrats and the government of Treasurycrats, the government of strong economists, the government of the rescue of strong economists and so forth. You know, I believe we're finally going to have a government for the people. Honourable National Deputies, at the suggestion of the deputy faction "Serviary of the People", who in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to coalition of MP factions, I bring to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, the next procedure for dealing with this matter is proposed. For a presentation on the main directions for future activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine has up to 20 minutes to speak. Next. From the deputy factions and groups of questions to the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. After that, he spoke from the MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes. And speaking from the people's deputies for up to six minutes. Let's move on to the question. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Šmigal Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u27	Dear Mr. President! Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear international partners! Dear Ukrainians! Most of my surroundings yesterday, listening to the news, asked why you should say hello or feel sorry for yourself. Because today the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine is not just an honor, it is a huge responsibility. And the fate of the Ukrainian state and its citizens is, in fact, in the hands of Parliament today, the government, and we have tremendous responsibility for this. There are various reasons why I am behind this rostrum today. It's an economic downturn, it's a risk of a budget crisis, it's a state of industry, it's medicine, it's social protection. The issue of the country's energy security, municipal payments and, most importantly, what the President is always focusing on is the level of welfare of Ukrainian citizens. These are simple things that don't need a doctoral degree in economics. It is a normal, legitimate desire, a human desire for Ukrainians to live richly and with dignity. We can long list the causes of the fall, look for the extremes, but today we just don't have time to ask who's to blame?', we have to answer the question 'What do we do?".. There are a number of challenges that we need to face immediately. It's not an economic and budgetary crisis. I think we should review the budget for 2020, especially in the part of the increase in payments and pensions for ordinary Ukrainians. There are costs we have to cut. This applies both to salaries and to the remuneration of officials, including ministers of the new government, members of a number of supervisory councils, and other officials. Another urgent issue is the repayment of debt to Ukrainian miners. We do not have the right to turn away from people who risk their lives every day, nor do we allow the coal industry to be destroyed. A serious challenge is the threat to the Coronavirus. The first incident has already taken place in Ukraine. I think this is where the government has to work in two directions. The first is a medical facility for the detection and treatment of the virus. Much has been done for this. In each area, medical facilities are defined that are ready to accommodate potential patients. Informed by family and other doctors There are 12,000 beds in the country in infectious hospitals, about 2.5 thousand infectious boxing. But that's not enough. It's going to be a complex program in case the virus spreads, and it's going to be the first brick in building the only effective system of protecting the population from biological, climatic, technological threats. The other one. This raises the level of information for Ukrainians, and not only what to do in case of suspected disease, but also what the State does for the safety and health of its citizens. Ukrainians need to see and feel protected by the state. Among other things, what the government has to do urgently is to strengthen the economic bloc. This was repeatedly mentioned in the last days, and on this rostrum today. It has to ensure not only the growth of industry and the agricultural sector, which is important, but also the sense of this growth by every Ukrainian. So far, we've only seen the fortification of the bracelet that hit, unfortunately, after export, but it didn't affect the well-being of ordinary Ukrainians. We've heard about tax and customs reform, but we haven't seen it in the budget's income, and that's what the president was talking about today. At the same time, we will preserve and develop reforms and projects that have already begun to take place. It's about the decentralization reform that I've been in charge of as Vice Prime Minister for the past week and as head of the Ivano-Frankow administration for the last more than six months. It's about a big building program that's going to push the economy from a dead point of view, warm it up and give impetus to the economic crisis and to prevent the budget crisis. These are available loans for small and medium-sized businesses, mortgage loans for the population, digitization, diditalization of public processes. It is also the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers to present the country with strategies and prospects for economic development for future years as soon as possible. As the Deputy Prime Minister has initiated a major debate on further decentralization, how will the Prime Minister propose to initiate a major debate on Ukraine's economic map of the world and on how to achieve this stated goal? What remains of our priorities is that on August 29th, 19th, the President's announcement of the previous government, but it's not finished, it's a continuation of decentralization, it's creating a favourable investment climate, it's gaining energy efficiency, it's expanding industry, the agricultural sector and infrastructure, it's improving the quality of medicine and education. And most important. Strengthening national security and defense, ending the Donbas war, and returning the annexed Crimea. All these tasks will be decided by a new government. He will not decide, so there will be no government. This is obvious, and today we have seen it. We understand this well, none of us have come for decades, and everyone is well aware of the responsibility. The expectations of the citizens are enormous, and patience ends. Reforms are needed yesterday. The result is needed today. I look forward to a fruitful cooperation with the MPs, with you, distinguished nationals. All of these tasks can only be done together. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for trusting the President, the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u28	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for questions from MPs and factions. Litvinenko Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u29	I'd like a word with Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u30	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u31	Igor Fries, give me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u32	Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, in principle, here comes questions from MP factions and groups. We've heard such big macroeconomic ideas that you're going with, how you're going to change big global processes, but to this day aside from what's been broadcast, there's a very interesting question about how a government under your head is going to regulate the activities and sort out the problems that private entrepreneurs and middle and small businesses face. I'd like to hear it so we can understand what we're going to tell people when we're going to the districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u34	We're going to communicate with small and medium-sized businesses, with association structures, with the appropriate profiling committee. And first of all, we need to hear the problems of small and medium-sized businesses, define them, classify them, structure them, think about how to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u35	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u36	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u37	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u38	Dear Denis Anatolyevich, we believe that you will succeed and that you will lead your government. But the question that our "For the Future" MP group wants to address you. We support the position of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, who just said from the Supreme Council's rostrum that this medical reform, phase two, needs to be stopped because it is not on time, especially in view of the challenges that there are today. Money in the NSOs is not enough to fund medical facilities, and so are the support hospitals that are today misdefined by the previous Cabinet of Ministers. So, Mr. future Prime Minister of Ukraine, we ask you to make a willful decision to stop the second stage of medical reform, to listen to the medics, to the people and, in fact, to reexamine it. And I think all the parliamentary factions and groups will support you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u39	Thank you for your offer. Of course, we need to see that the result of medical reform does not lead to a collapse in the field. And we're talking about people today. Therefore, reform must be for the people, for the medical community, and should produce an appropriate result. We're going to be working on this from day one with, say, the head of the ministry and the ministry, in conjunction with the profile committee. Once again, I repeat, we will be set up to work together with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u40	Thank you. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u42	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u43	Denis Anatolyovich, I'd like to ask a very simple question. The previous majority repeatedly complained about bad communication with the previous government, for the banal previous ministers simply brought them a list and offered to vote for them. A very big request to you is entirely your responsibility. Are you going to repeat this error and now you're going to make a list, and you're not going to let factions know, and for example, deny that we can't continue and effectively complete medical reform, to a member of your team who will be responsible for medicine? Whether you will make progress and propose a list of names, we will be able to communicate with each minister and select the best to carry out the President's task and not to launch "strong masters" into this new government, because, unfortunately, there is a risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u44	Thank you for asking. Voting for the government’s personal composition is regulated by the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council and lies in the plane defined by law. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Supreme Council, according to 209 articles, votes to the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers in a complex manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, you know Ukrainian legislation is no worse than I am. Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Wait a minute, I didn't interrupt you, dear fellows! The 9th article, if I am not mistaken, provides for a vote on the list. Pick up, look, please. If I'm wrong, you can prove me wrong. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u46	Mr. Dennis, if you are elected Prime Minister, you will face tremendous challenges. The state’s debt is $83 billion. The decline in industrial production in January is more than 5 percent, against the backdrop of the coronavirus epidemic in China, where our main markets for agrarians are for metallurgy. This trend may continue. Nearly 83 percent of pensioners receive wages below the minimum wage. So what will be your specific steps if you are elected Prime Minister? What will you do with your debt? What will you do about the decline in industrial production, and how do you plan to retire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u47	Thank you for asking. In part, I answered him in the report, but industrial production needs special attention, and that will be done. Agribusiness complex, agriculture needs special attention. We also understand that both culture and ecology and energy are all of these areas, all of which need special attention today and take them separately to the state level even for work at the international level. In the international market, in the international arena. We need quality representatives at the government level of Ukraine. So all of these areas that you've heard are going to be in a special focus area of the government today, and not just in a special focus area, but in an active area, they're going to be working on these issues and these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u48	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u49	Please give the floor to the People's MP, Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u50	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u51	People's MP Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Mr. Prime Minister, our political force "The Opposition Platform for Life" believes that change should not only be a name, but a change should be a course. So the following questions. Do you believe that your predecessors ’ course is correct regarding the total sale of land and state property? You just said you're planning on paying attention to industry. What is the specific meaning of this? Because industry was not reflected in the previous government program at all. How do you plan to return the markets, the lost markets of the Russian Federation, what do you plan to replace them with, what markets? And finally about the budget. You just said you were planning to raise social costs. How do you plan to do that when, today, your predecessors' government does not implement the income plan? I will be very grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u52	Thank you for your questions. The course remains unchanged, as the president has said. There's the "Serial of the People" Party program, where the main directions and the main priorities are defined, and they're also strategic, including. The government programme will be presented according to the law for a specified term. There will be a clear set of directions, vectors and strategy for this government's movement, but they won't change significantly from where we're going. Individual attention will be given both in this program and in government activities, and in government structure, to industrial production. Particular attention will be paid to agro-industrial development. Special attention will be given to social issues and their solutions. The question of finding additional funds in the budget is a quick budget review for this year in part of the reallocation within the expenditure and income budget. So it's our joint work, our shared responsibility for both the level of pensions and the minimum wage, the minimum wage. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u53	Thank you. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u55	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u56	My dear candidate, do you know that transparency means that you should meet the factions before your appointment? We'd like to ask you a question, and we'd better talk to you here. But the question concerns the following. Before accepting such, before you're assigned, you have to know exactly what the January-February budget failure is, what's the amount, can you suggest now what you're going to do to deal with those expenses that are planned for future periods? Can you see that without a budget sequester you can't move at all? And you just said that business problems you're going to study. Did you live in another country? Haven't you heard that for six months, microbusiness has held a rally to repeal the law that stops the work of 1 million 900,000 people who have organized their jobs? I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u57	Thank you for asking. I'll start at the end. For many years in my career, I have worked in business, both small and large, and so I understand the problems perfectly. The problems that Igor Pavlovich Fries asked about, they really need to study, because not everything is clear. We need to solve those problems that really affect small and medium-sized business issues. And in these problems that we hear today, there are parts and policies, including. That's the first one. The other one. We will move according to the strategy and program that will be presented according to the law in force. We met with faction leaders before the meeting today, had a conversation. With every faction, I promise, there will be a meeting in the near future. We will reconcile our actions, and I have promised, and I hold back this word, to cooperate fruitfully and closely with the Supreme Council, with Parliament, with committees and with factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u58	Thank you. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u59	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Mr. Candidate, and in your speech, Mr. President, you spoke of a tariff issue. I hope you realize that a good desire to lower, indeed, and lead to the economic justification of the tariff has, unfortunately, turned into a total clown and a farce with a pianist, precisely because of the lack of professionalism of government. Are you going to address the main issue of the energy sector of Ukraine's NAC "Ukrainian Naftogaz"? Are you going to figure out where tens of billions of dollars have disappeared that have been spent on the account of the users of an asset to increase gas production, and have not led to anything? Are you going to deal with the actions of the so-called independent supervisory board, which includes representatives of the Office of the President and the Government of Ukraine? Are you going to introduce modern tariff policies, and how are you going to solve the problem of the capital repair of Ukraine’s housing fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u60	We're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u61	Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u62	Mr. Dennis, I'm right behind you. Mr. Dennis, you know, the success of many international governments in many countries, namely France, Germany, and not to mention the Nordic countries, Canada, shows that there should be at least 50 by 50 women and men in the government. Please tell me, what balance do you plan for men and women in your government, taking into account the International Women's Day on March 8th?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u63	Thank you for asking. Let me put it this way, well, it's too early to announce the government. That's probably the next question. But once you asked, we first approached the formation of a government and a team of ministers from the point of view of professionalism, experience and attitudes, and responsibility. But. [[B in m in s a l in]] But the gender issue is extremely important, I understand it deeply, and when I present the government, I will comment further.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u64	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please take your seat. Ladies and gentlemen, time for questioning is up. Let us move on to the discussion of the candidate for Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Kovalov Alexander Ivanovich. Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u65	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, the people of Ukraine and the deputies! The "Trust" group was the first to express mistrust about the government's actions in December of last year. And we thank the President of Ukraine for his responsible decision to resign the government. Because the one who does nothing is not wrong. We, the Trust Group, support Dennis Schmigal as Prime Minister of Ukraine as a professional who has consistently passed all levels of government and worked in business. We are ready to develop and work with you on development strategies and, above all, implement them particularly in the areas of agriculture. And move away from tons per capita in decentralization. And move away from creating communities of budget eating to financially able communities. In medical reform, make a reasonable balance between government subsidies and services. Make a program with you to industrialize Ukraine. We think the main thing right now is what the President and the Prime Minister's candidate were talking about, the Ukrainian. And we think that all the economic indicators that sound so good here should be counted per capita. We have to take waterline right now and see what the average salary of a Ukrainian who's retired today is average in Ukraine. And every quarter takes the same indicator and sees whether we have an increase in wages in Ukraine or not, whether we have an opportunity to increase our pension or not, whether we have an increase in the consumer basket in Ukraine or not. Our job is. All of us together are serving the people of Ukraine. And only the people of Ukraine should feel it, not in big words, but in concrete actions in every Ukrainian family. I wish you success. I'm sure you can handle it. And God save Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u66	Knotchuk Eugenia Mikhailevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u67	Please pass the word to Alexander Korneyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u68	Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. President, this is an honorable presidency! We're talking about a government for people right now. What do people want? Well, we know all that with you. First of all, of course, the MPs elected to major districts, but also the lists, we all get a lot of questions from people, and we all know what people want now in Ukraine. People want peace. So the government has to do what the government does, where its competence is. It's to strengthen security; it's to strengthen our economy so that we can do these tasks in the military and our army is on guard; it's to ensure the reintegration of occupied areas; it's to increase and implement social services standards in general for residents of the front zone; it's to work with internally displaced persons. It's all this complex, all around this big topic, and it's a very big task for the government. It's the fight against poverty, the start of the economy, the restart of the economy, the restart of those sectors that we're talking about not the first day, the rise in industrial production and so on. It's a transparent tariff policy, everyone has to understand what they're paying for, how many of these payments they're paying, what's reflected in them, and so on. There are many such questions. But it is important to remember not only what to do, but also what to be a new government, what to be like for you, future Prime Minister. We need to be strong to respond to all the challenges of fate, to be gathered, mobilized, but most of all, we need to hear people not only in Facebook, in comments, yes, to hear people on the streets, to hear MPs coming from people, to ask something, to say something, and, of course, to hear all the feedback from profile associations, mayors, lawyers' associations, small business, big industry, from all the people who say something and report something. It's easier to submerge into some scientific activity, make slides and show them somewhere. But we're expecting a result from the new government, and I'm sure you'll be an experienced manager with experience in business and government. But the trust of people, I want to remind you, it's like a loan, it needs to be given, it can end very quickly. I hope that your government, unlike the previous one, will touch it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u70	Thank you. Puppy. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u71	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished candidate in the Prime Minister, the honourable colleagues, finally, let's face it, if this is the course of the previous government, all we're doing right now is going nowhere. Why did we actually insist on meeting the factions? We wanted to talk openly. There was no such possibility on the factions, let's talk here. First question. Mr. candidate, if you don't stop the experiments on the agricultural sector, you won't stop what's going on in this room, instead of maintaining a completely normal, 30-year-old, income-generating relationship that has made a breakthrough in the agricultural sector, the country will still not be able to withstand such experiments. Are you ready for this? The second question. Please tell me if you're ready for an open discussion, so that the question of de-offshoring is not a question of paying taxes in offshore jurisdictions first, and then pretending to pay taxes to the State, and vice versa, as did the vast majority of European Union countries and the vast majority of states in the United States. Pay taxes to the state, then pretend like you're paying taxes in offshors. Are you ready for this? But it's got to be a fight. You know who to fight with. Are you ready for medical reform? Yes, everyone admits, at least most, that the first stage was successful. But good for what? To introduce insurance medicine, but not to get what's still working. Are you ready for this? Say it and offer it. Are you ready for a real agrarian reform that will involve processing? But this requires tax reform, customs reform. Do we understand that or not? Are you ready for energy reform? We understand that 54 percent today is providing Energy. The easiest thing to do now is to put energy into the energy market by allowing what Mr. Herus openly said to open up the market for Russia to bring cheap Russian subsidies here. Are you ready to stop this? Are you ready for what's now the key moment, what's going to happen to the social bloc? We can't choose between miners and pensioners. We cannot choose between the wages that the previous government approved on the last day – 1 million 250 000 for state-owned enterprises with an average wage even in the government administrations where you worked. That's the question. And without answering those questions, we're not going to have a conversation. And the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u72	Thank you. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u73	Potato, apple, yeah, we'll go trade soon. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, and, above all, respected Ukrainians! I mean, Ukraine you all know the situation we're in. We have a war, we have an epidemic of coronavirus, and it is followed by an economic world crisis that will cover not only the world but also Ukraine. At this time, the majority instead of developing strategies to save Ukraine, an economic new strategy, introducing reforms, as my previous speaker said, decided to change faces to the new faces she promised in the elections. But the new faces turned out to be old faces, well-known Ukrainian voters, as well as all those who have been following the government since the year 98, and they've all been working. They may have experience, perhaps they are beautiful and strong, but they will come along. It's actually like, you know, Janukovich's government. Yes. So perhaps the "servants" have lost their memory, Mr. President, and the sight and the hearing, as they offer these people to the ministers. We're being offered today. We voted the first government without representation, without programs, without understanding how to save the country. They did an experiment for six months. Today we are again offered the same experiment, but with other "cats in a bag", more experienced. So, Mr. President, we strongly urge you, please, please, Mr. Prime Minister, the future candidate, he doesn't have to. And, Mr. Speaker, it's about presenting all the ministers personally, Mr. Prime Minister, and not referring to Article 209, which refers to members of the CLTC. They came and told us what kind of program we would have to live for the future period of this government. And we want to ask them how land reform will be carried out with such low-powered ministers. So, Mr. Prime Minister, just in case we give you a cat in a bag and we want you to take your cats out of the bag and show them to Ukrainian citizens. They're baby toys. Get the cats out of the bag, show people the truth. Tell us how you will reform the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u74	I think children's toys would be better off in a children's home, for example. You can do it. I'm sorry, but I think that would be the right thing to do. Thank you. It's a binoculars. Igor Petrovich's staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u75	Good afternoon, Mr. President! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! We're dealing with the faction of today's vote, and we're talking about how we supported the first government, the faction "Group for the Future" supported the first government. We believed it, President. The president trusted people who sang beautifully, who spoke well. They were told that they had been taught abroad how to love and develop Ukraine. We trusted each other. We were expecting the first month. The second month we saw that there was no government, there was a white spot. For the third month, we saw that this is not a white spot, it's a black hole that's going to suck the whole Ukraine inside. I thank the President of Ukraine very much for making this decision. The president is tolerant. The president waited, gave him a chance. But the government did not justify this opportunity, even admitting that it was not. The group says: "Igor Petrovich, for the first time we have supported, and the government has not justified the hopes of the Ukrainians. The government has disgraced itself. Have we shared the disgrace of this government with the Servant of the People, along with the election of the President?" Yes, we have shared this disgrace. The Group "For the Future" divided this disgrace because it voted in favour of this government. Are we ready to do the experiment again? The Group "For the Future" will vote for the Prime Minister's candidate. It's a group for the future. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to see those who are laughing right now. I don't give a grade like you did, so you don't have a motive. You've been evaluated by the people of Ukraine. Let's not laugh. Are we ready to split up again? Yeah, ready. Will we vote for the government? We will. We trust you, Mr. President, with your choice. We look forward to you, Mr. Prime Minister's candidate. Government, we don't know how they are as experts. We trust you. The President trusts you, trusts the people of Ukraine. Because most people support you, I know. But what I wish you. Do not consult abroad. Do not seek happiness abroad. Do not kneel in front of foreign funds, in front of the IMF, and in front of various counselors. Ukraine is self-sufficient. Ukraine is strong. We have everything to build a strong country. We have the mind, we have the desire, we have the hardworking people. We don't have to be counseled. Won't that be enough money? I'm sure, do, release the securities in the currency, our employees, our Ukrainians will buy these securities. Count the loan, as all foreign countries have done. And let's live by the rules, for the Ukrainians. So once again, we vote, no matter how ridiculous that may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u76	Thank you. Vadim Zinović Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u77	Dear Mr. President! Honorable Predestination! Dear fellow countrymen! So today we're summarizing the first experiment of your greatness over the Ukrainian people. The bottom line is sad. There's no politics here, there's empty pockets of people, there's a drop in production, there's a collapse in the economy, there's a break in medicine and there's a lot of other things that our citizens feel about themselves. So are you. So the first one came out with a big coma. But the summation of this experiment I'd like to give a little bit of a heads-up. The decline of industry is 5 percent, some mysterious hole in the Pension Fund, a freighter loses 30 percent a year, debts on wages -- more than 3 billion, hospital closure, schools, total sales of domestic pearls -- ports, and now schools. This is a sad summary of the real economic disaster. But now we're going to talk about the future. So experiment number two is Prime Minister Schmigal. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's candidate did not meet our faction. That's why I'm leaving a short meeting, a few minutes that I had with a candidate myself. First, I asked him if there would be a normal economic relationship with all of our neighbours, which is a guarantee of economic growth. I got the answer: we don't plan to trade with Russia as an aggressor country. It's different. The second question that I asked the future prime minister is what course we will take. I got the answer that we're going to develop the values of Maidan. What values, I don't know, he didn't say. On the way out of class, I want to tell you, I feel like we're changing our necks for soap. We're not going to support a new government because no idea of how to fill the budget, make our people richer, get the country out of the crisis, I didn't see. It is unfortunate that instead of creating a national rescue government, instead of consulting all the factions of our Parliament, most people are once again making key decisions for our country. And finally. We're not happy with your failure because it's the failure of our Ukraine. So we hope that we all want to see the country strong and flourishing. So when you realize that the economy has to be separate from politics, when you make sure that you don't feed the people with the slogan, we're ready to hint, support and lay our shoulders for the benefit of our country with you. We are in opposition to your government, but not in opposition to Ukraine. We will never be in opposition to Ukraine, because the interests of the state are higher than the political interests of even our party. We supported the resignation of the Government of Pottery because the government was a disaster. Now I'm addressing you, majority. A certain period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u78	Thank you, Vadim Zinovovich, it's time. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u79	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! There are several countries in the world where the brides first see each other on their wedding night. In the days of President Zelensky, the same majority and prime minister see each other for the first time and perhaps for the last time on the day of the vote. And there's not much to learn about the face of the new government, the new government, we have a new prime minister. In fact, what's interesting is the new prime minister says he's going to be running the "ministers of the people" program. But the people have given such high trust to the "servants" – 254 "ministers" in the Supreme Council, and none of them can become Prime Minister, and you don't even delegate to ministers. Maybe because today this nice bubble of new faces that turned out to be just incompetent, inexperienced, or maybe even cowardly, that they don't want to lay their shoulders on their president and go into the government to show a class of work there. You know, six months ago, these new faces heroically eliminated several ministries. It's both the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Areas. But reforms do not stop, and today they heroically create these ministries. The next phase of the reforms will be to rename the President's Office to the Attorney General's Office. I mean, I'm sorry, on the contrary, and the President's Administration, because the reform is not going to stop. But let's talk about the future, friends. Where is the responsibility of the servants and the President himself, who appointed this government, because the budget for which you voted did not determine the amount of pension indexation? Where is the responsibility of the "servants" for the fact that you have voted against these shameful laws that have put the Ukrainian economy at the brink of existence today? Maybe it's time for the Council to dissolve, and then it'll actually be the right reboot. But today's special disgrace in this first speech certainly deserves the sexism of the new prime minister's candidate. 60 percent of voters make up Ukrainians, more than 25,000 Ukrainians now serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And what did we hear from a man today who would represent a great European country? It's that we don't have worthy candidates who, at their intellectual level, can be qualified to serve as ministers. I urge all women in this room not to vote for a sexist, because in fact we are women, but we are serious people. And likewise, my friends, I want to say that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you know, this is your attitude towards Ukrainian women when you shout things like that when I talk about 60 percent of Ukraine, which also gave confidence to your majority, among which you can't find candidates and candidates for Prime Minister, candidates and candidates to do your program. And maybe that's your answer to index.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u80	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a statement by the national deputies. The rule is up to 6 minutes, and then we move on to the voting procedure. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u81	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u82	Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u83	Igor Gus, Faction for the Future. Mr. Prime Minister's candidate, I'd like to stop at a few points that are important not only to me, but also to our MP group. Please do not disturb the Prime Minister so that he can hear and continue to work consciously as Prime Minister. First. The problem raised by the President is the issue of coal miners. I represent the mining district, Novovolinsk, where every new coal minister was afraid to come. The forerunner didn't come, Nasalik didn't come, Demchisin. Everyone was afraid to talk to miners. I very much ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to one of the first trips, and you from Lviv, to visit Lvivščina, where are the mines and Volini. To get everyone together clearly and clearly, what is the plan of your government for our Ukrainian mines. The other one. I told you today about decentralization. We have been in charge for the fifth year, and we have to complete decentralization. I very much ask that you find ways to convince us, parliamentarians, to ensure that the local elections take place according to the rules that will allow people in the regions to understand that these rules are transparent. And we're starting a new era of local self-government not from humiliation, not from taking away what we've given in our time, but we're expanding the rights of local self-government. There are many questions with educators, with doctors, and more than that. I'd like you to speak frankly to those people in the regions. And one more thing. Unfortunately, we, and we've already confirmed my colleagues, met several times with Mr. Hotcharuk, our group, and we all have majors. I'll tell you, zero is zero. We didn't have a dialogue. We said, we raised questions, we gave documents, and we didn't see any reactions from the Prime Minister. We'd like you to systematically, maybe once a month, meet not only the Majority Deputies of the People's Service, but also all the Majorities present in this room. Because we communicate with people all the time. People know our phone numbers. People know how to approach us. We'd like to have a dialogue. Therefore, the request to be transparent, open and ready to cooperate not only with those who now vote for you, but with all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u84	Thank you, Igor Volodymyrovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u85	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Start yelling! The word of truth does not stop. And you won't be able to yell at me anyway. People will hear me. So I want to go on really, what I started to say. Once again, what do we have? We have the promise of an end to the age of poverty. What do we have as a result? We have people's frozen pensions, we have your promise that after 70 years poor people won't pay municipal tariffs. Where is it? You promised to raise pensions for people over 80 years of age. Where is it? Even that index you were supposed to do right now, you're not doing it. There is no end to the age of poverty, only for your friends. You promised the end of the age of camaraderie. Well, do we see where your best man went? Where's Bakanov? Where the hell do you think you're going, or the robbers? This is your friend, your neighbor, and your partner. And this is your age of camaraderie. We can see how it ended. You promised the end of the age of greed. And now you pay hundreds of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of dollars to your ministers, heads of state companies, and envelopes to MPs from "The Servant of the People." Is this the end of the age of greed? You promised the end of the lie era. But you lie, you lie to people. You promised to take the mandate of a minor rapist you brought to the Supreme Council. He's sitting here right now. Well, call his thug, have him write you up here right now in your summer style. Or have you forgotten that style? You promised people a lot, but you lied. What Did It Really End? In fact, the era of new faces has ended. The kids are getting pissed, and now they're looking for an adult, who's going to dig up what you did. And there's no one to dig up, because nobody even wants to go into this government, you sit on your knees writing a government composition, because you can't find people who risk their reputation to go. Why are there no deputies from the "Serve of the People"? We know. You've already appointed one governor in Kharkushchi, now you've lost him in disgrace, you've cleaned up your candidate because you can't go to people for a loan of trust. It's all you. And so if you have the courage, and by the way, you said about the six organs that we have to work there and put them all in. You promised it would be, the spring will come, the landings will be. Why are there no landings? Because in addition to the six organs, two more are missing, usually hindering the bad dancer. Because you have to plant your own, and you can't do that. So get your courage, write your resignation application, and follow Potter and him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is up, so let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, have put to the vote the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3168) on the appointment of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:17:18]] For 291 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's see the factions. The People's Party – 242, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 17, "non-factional" – 14. Thanks again. Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. I wish you all the Supreme Council success and achievement for the benefit of the Ukrainian State and the people. Dear colleagues, a break of 20 minutes is announced for the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you taking a break? Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. We're either in the middle of something right now, then. Are we moving on? Yeah, let's keep going. Well, let's get through this question, let's take the next one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then let's do the application. Where's the application? There's no curtain. Let's make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. A statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. He'll be performing. Sergey Ivanovich, are you speaking? Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u89	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u91	I have some sad things to admit. These sad things are called "infringements to the Constitution, to the law, to the rules, to the rules." In particular, I recall that according to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, under the Rules of Procedure Act, the prime minister's candidate was to appear before factions at the request of factions. This right of factions was ignored, although at least two factions demanded the meeting. I would like to remind you that, according to the Constitution, the current legislation and the Rules, the prime minister's candidate was not simply to go before the factions, and he had the opportunity to allow factions to become acquainted with the candidates for the positions of ministers, and the factions and the people's deputies were to be given the opportunity to ask these candidates questions. In line with current legislation, it was possible not to list cats again in a bag, but by name, because a large number of questions, unfortunately, remained unanswered. I realize that under these conditions the economy has to be economic, but I don't understand how the new government is going to deal with economic problems without an economic bloc. I've watched politics for 30 years, this is the first time in the history of Ukraine that we have a government without an economic bloc. Thank God we have at least a minister of finance. Our faction and the faction of "European Solidarity" insists that we be given the opportunity to vote by name for each candidate to ministers, and that each faction be given the opportunity to ask each candidate to ministers, to a large number of which, unfortunately, we have a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are invited to attend. I'm sorry. The question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as proposed by the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes most of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a submission concerning the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. To give a speech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine within 10 minutes to represent candidates for office of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It takes 21 minutes to speak from the MP factions and groups and discussions. And speaking from the people's deputies, as agreed, in six minutes. The entire agenda is 40 minutes. Let's move on to the question. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u93	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples! We can say much today, but the formation of government today is vital to our nation. In this proposed composition of government is the combination of youth and experience, there is a combination of ambitions, there is a combination of professionalism and perseverance, energy and the effect of the changes needed to do so today. A government that will not hide in Facebook will go out to people and solve their problems. Our priority is the welfare of citizens. And let me repeat, as the President has said today, it's not a technocrat government, it's not a treasury government, it's not a government of strong economists, it's a government for people. So, in representing the composition of the government, let me say the following briefly about each of the proposed members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Vice Prime Minister – Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine – you are well-known Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich. This is our digital transformation leader in Ukraine. [[Applause]] The author of the "Dia" system that works and works today is "The State and Me." We really, Ukraine today is an advance in this, it will continue to implement the plans that have been started and not just them, but even bigger and more interesting. A well-known Ukrainian lawyer, a well-deserved Ukrainian lawyer, a representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contact Group in Minsk, Reznikov Aleksij Juriovich. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister for Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine, Head of Mission of Ukraine to NATO, Mr. Pristajko Vadim Volodymyrovic. [[Applause]] Businessman, now statesman with many years of experience in development, investment participation – the minister of community development and territory of Ukraine – lawyer and economist Chernishov Aleksy Mihajlovich. [[Applause]] The Minister of Interior of Ukraine is a well-deserved economist of Ukraine, the author of the strategy for the restoration of Ukraine's integrity, the occupation of Donbasa Avakov Arsen Borisovich. [[Applause]] Master of Business Administration, candidate of economic sciences – Minister of Finance of Ukraine – Hungarian Igor Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Colossal experience, colossal expertise, one of the top economists and financiers of Ukraine. Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine – Master of Economic Sciences, Financer, Candidate for Economic Sciences Krikliy Vladislav Arturovich [[Applause]] Minister of Health The person who stood and saved people's lives and health at the operating table today, the director of the Scientific and Practical Centre of Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery of the MOH of Ukraine, the cardiosurgeon, the doctor of medical science, the professor of the Department of Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery of the name of Supic, the well-deserved doctor of Ukraine, the member of the European Association of Surgery of Inherent Heart Disorders of Ilja Mikolayovich Man, who deeply understands the issues and problems of the health sector and who will be the leader of the changes that we all expect in this area, positive changes. [[Applause]] The Olympic Champion of Ukraine, a multi-time participant in the Olympic Games, the sports star of Ukraine, the minister of youth and sport, Gutzajt Vadim Markovich. [[Applause]] The Minister for Veterans of Ukraine is Lieutenant General, commander of the army of the North Regional Authority, Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Bessarab Sergey Borisovich. [[Applause]] Master of Law, graduate of the University of London – Minister of Justice of Ukraine – Malejka Denis Leontijovich. [[Applause]] Science candidate from the government, statesman, participant in an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Nemchinov Oleg Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. We have four vacancies today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, I missed. I'm sorry. Now I'm going to say it's not just that, let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u94	No, you can't forget. So the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. The candidate for science, the woman, to your attention, Lazebna Marina Volodymyrna. [[Applause]] And this is the beginning of a gender expansion in this government. I'm the father of two daughters. I find it hard to blame sexism, believe me. That's why we have a number of vacancies. We're planning. We now have four vacancies in an active government. And we're going to expand two more directions. So first of all, of course, we are negotiating with women today. And the day before, I welcome all the women. I respect you very much. And I know that there's a lot of professional women out there. A great many professional, intelligent, and responsible people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, Mr. Prime Minister, please take your seat. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Will "European Solidarity" vote in favour of this government? No, it's not. Just as we did not vote for the appointment of the government of Pottery. Because there will be no benefit to this change. For, you know, there is national wisdom: whom has not been sheltered, but all things will also come out of Green. Because it is he who is responsible for the mistakes of the previous government, and for the errors of the vast majority in this parliament, because there are 250 Greens in the hall, and he will also be responsible for the new government, because it is the Greens government. The sharp decline in industry, the catastrophic decline in government budget revenues, the killing of a Ukrainian exporter, the theft of money from Ukrainian pensioners, because that's what you should call a day-to-day pension index -- it's a personal question for you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, and your mistakes personally. You know, I was very interested to hear Vladimir Alexandrovich's speech, especially in the part where he complained about purchasing electricity in the aggressor countries. And you know, it was not only a problem when the "ministers of the people," the majority of Zelensky here in this room voted, although I personally warned you about this leadership, but also when Green signed this law personally. Now you're complaining. It was also very interesting to hear that you were not in charge of law enforcement. Well, you know, the whole country listened to the film called the Wolf. After that, the whole country, and most of the world, listened to Truba’s tapes. And you know, the experts have already done, whose voices are there. This shit and the call to Bakanov, I think they're even talking about in the villages. And finally. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, hearing criticism is a sign of adult politics, because this room does not have a 95-quarter scenario, and this room is where the country's fate is resolved. And it's not about personal, it's about what the fate of millions of people depends on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u97	Thank you. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, dear friends, distinguished Prime Minister! You know, in 28 years of independence, Ukraine is our 22nd government. And I had to figure out how long the government had spent the shortest of its powers. This is the government of Pottery – 6 months and 4 days. [[The voice from the hall.]] Thank God.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u99	"Glory to God," someone says, "I can basically agree with that," because you know, Italy or other countries in Europe and that in the '50s, '60s, '70s governments had 3-4 months. I would not want the next government to flood the previous one during its term of office. Because in 28 years of independence, friends, we had different governments. We had red directors' cabins, strong economists, saving the country, national unity, we had a manual economy, and it eventually became a self-made economy, and we don't know where it went. We would not want this government to be oriented towards the government of the predecessors, who today became Prime Minister of Honduras. And we urge you, Mr. Prime Minister, to listen to the position of the President of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens and to do everything you can to stop the second stage of medical reform. This is what society demands, and that is what the challenges facing Ukraine today require. Today, it is very difficult to accept the Prime Minister of Ukraine. To a lesser extent, it is not easy to agree to become ministers of different directions. And we see with what kind of creak today is going to be the search for government officials. This speaks of a serious crisis in the Ukrainian political system and in the governance system. The Ukrainian Parliament is ready to help, not deepen this crisis. And I want to say, on behalf of the House of Deputies for the Future, that we support the position of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to vote with a package today, just as six months ago this room voted in favour of the Government of Pottery. But I would like us to share the same responsibility, because, friends, we're in the same boat, and this boat has broken the bottom, and we're all running. Let's not end up sinking the Ukrainian state and the economy of Ukraine. Let's create a national rescue government, and everyone will take part in their responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u100	Alexandre Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, you know, when I look to the left, I see a counter-revolution of the regime that we expelled from Maidan. But this counter-revolution under the masks of new faces. So I want to tell you who these new faces are sitting on the left. We are now trying to sell as the new face of the new health minister, who was already the minister of security during Janukovich’s time. What they're trying to say is that the new face is Mr. Gutzite, who was expelled from the list that you had going with 81 numbers because he was too dirty. Because he has business in Russia, and his business partners are people who are now fighting in the Russian army, they're Russian army officers -- his business partners. And they thought it was dirty on their list, but they let it run the government now. We have Mr. Umansky here, who is very well aware of who works in economics. But I'll tell you when you told us where we should send the toy to the children's houses that Mr. Umanski signed 79 million bracelets that were handed over to Sashi Yanukovic. The money was to go to the Ohmatdit building. So now that you're telling me where to hand the toys over, you better think about who you're handing the money to, and where this person's been sending them. We have the Minister of Social Affairs, who has appointed Viktor Janukovitch as head of the Employment Service. And you know how Victor Yanukovich was given positions. Well, that's the last of it. You know, it's very hard to imagine how the hall will then vote for the land when we don't have an agropolitic minister at all. And I want to remind you how ashamed many of you were to press the Kabmin button when you saw the old Arsen-Awakov. Now, tell me, after the Sheremet case and the volunteer abuse, you're going to have a shame to vote, aren't you? Is this a new face in this new government? So I want to say one thing, the Voice faction is not going to support this circus and the formation of the Yanukovich government. And I'm asking everyone who's going to vote for this government today, ten times to think about whether you're ready for these new faces.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u103	The Voice faction will not continue to take part in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u104	Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u105	I give my word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u106	Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u107	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor's presidency, Mr. Dennis, Mr. Secretary-General. There's a person in this room who's done something impossible at least twice in her life. It was first elected president of Ukraine. For the second time, it has ensured that there is a majority in this room, of which we are all part. [[Applause]] So despite the paucity of this statement, I think that after six months of very difficult attempts we expect the third impossible is that the government implements those reforms that have indeed been declared by the Servant of the People and the President of Ukraine during its pre-election campaign. What reforms these are. We talked about a lot of problems. And, believe me, my committee that took the government report along with my colleagues on my committee had the opportunity to ask the most embarrassing questions. But this was not about the past but about the message of the future. And it's about the future that we want to talk about. In the future, we would like the government not only to be a human center, but we want you to be a center of the country. To make Ukraine and the Ukrainians the object that is the final beneficiaries of all your actions and all your reforms. And we believe you're capable of doing that. We would like Ukraine not to be viewed as more than needy as a sacrifice as a younger brother. We would like Ukraine to be seen as a partner, as a competitor, and as a rival. Because at this very moment it's going to mean that we're finally starting to defend the national interests of Ukraine. Not the interests of people who may have different nationalities, different positions for different purposes and different purposes, but the interests of Ukrainians, the Ukrainian passports, the people who are counting on us, Mr. President, and now you. We would like this government not to become a government of breakthroughs, but to become a government of peace. Because what I think people lack is actually a lack of stress. Politics and life in the country, war, economic poverty is a constant stress. And it is with his downfall that you may have to fight. We're going to try to do everything in our power to help you do that. And finally. As head of the Economic Committee, we have repeatedly made comments to the government that they are ideologicalizing the economy. But the consensus was that people were counting on the invisible hand of the market, probably it was really so invisible that its life-saving effect in six months we didn't feel that way. So we expect to hear a tangible and visible hand of government that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u108	No, it's not. Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. [[Applause]] With all due respect, there are rules for everyone. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u109	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the state is, above all, a service of quality or quality, a guide that can analyze, make decisions to minimize all negative consequences. Our parliament has been working for six months, but the level of mistrust in Parliament and the government is now 70 percent. Mr. Prime Minister, the failure to implement the income plan amounted to 35 billion. Last year's loan is more than we planned for 70 billion. The decline in manufacturing is only in December, minus 8.3 percent. Electricity production decreased more than 11.8 percent in a year. In the manufacturing industry, the decline is negative 4.5 percent. As far as my native agar industry is concerned, capital investments decreased by 11.3 percent. The situation of debt on a salary basis has been very revealing. Today's debt is 3 billion. The budget, Mr. Prime Minister, is going to a halt in an accelerated way. Chaos and disorder in government management. What needs to be done. It's a fundamental change of course. If, Mr. Prime Minister, you continue to insist and do not interfere with the law that is being voted on in the Supreme Council on the sale of Ukrainian land under rules that are not available in any European country, even in the world, please look into this issue. The other one. If you continue to sell government property in most cases at no cost, if you continue to push small businesses by adopting appropriate laws and not upholding laws 2644 and 2645, that means you will not change your course. And that means we don't have a future in this country. The past government has only remembered one positive thing: it knows how to make nice presentations. And for you, Mr. Prime Minister, we ask from the entire faction: Enter the bill that the Supreme Council is considering today. It's not a project on the circulation of land, it's a total sale of Ukrainian black lands. Ask for agrarian associations, consult experts, and support the repeal of the bill. "Paternality" asks and insists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u110	Thank you. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u111	Dear Mr. President! Dear Speaker, the newly elected Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Now I personally have a five - month - old shower because when five months before the vote, the names of ministers appeared and for them. Nobody saw them in their eyes, voted in favour of them most, and then in five months this government lost people's trust, so I was hoping that, as a minimum, these mistakes would be taken into account, and the appointment of a new government would go through more civilized, openly, especially that ministers and government officials would present their vision of how they would output their industries, which they would trust, from the breakthrough in which the whole country was economically affected after the work of the previous government. And that, unfortunately, did not happen. That's why we don't support voting for the Cabinet of Ministers in this way, not because we don't know most of them, but because we don't know them. Personally, our faction would love to vote for Elijah Hamtza because he's a patriot of native medicine, and we understand that he will fight for her, not like other "chains." But we are against the principle in which this appointment to the Ukrainian Parliament was presented. And the second question. Using the presence of the president of the country. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, 73 percent of Ukrainian citizens voted for you in the presidential elections in the second round. Today, so many citizens, 70 percent of them who voted for you, are against the Land Act, which is now in Parliament. Because this Earth Act is so called the Earth Market, it's against our farmers, it's against those who own pies today. He's outlawed by international financial corporations, and he's not going to give the country anything good. Ask yourself, ‘ Why break society on your knees, the same one that you were entrusted with, voted for you? So our faction insists that this bill be revoked, worked in such a way that it responds to the interests of farmers and the Ukrainian society through a referendum to get people to support it, and then put into the room, please, for the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u112	Thank you. An alien. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u113	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunets, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsk oblasts, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Today, in haste, I emphasize, haste in Parliament is offered to consider updating the composition of the government. Why is this happening? Because the past government failed to show the concrete results of its work in six months. Because the past composition of the government has failed to communicate properly with people and especially with local authorities. Because the past composition of the government has never given any new, unconventional, creative ideas to solve the problems that our state has been struggling with in recent years. I emphasize that, in addition to these problems that our nation has been struggling with in recent years inside the country, we are now seeing negative trends in the world economy that will undoubtedly affect Ukraine. Therefore, the new government should focus on economic development, industrial development, decent social security for our citizens and the defence of our state. Today the country needs a government of professionals with no political ambitions and no desire to please Mr. President or majority. Today we need a government of people, as our Prime Minister has said, who are willing to take responsibility for these areas that they want to lead. And last of all, it's important. Clearly, in difficult situations, everyone wants quick, simple solutions. Sadly, though, that is not the case. And today, instead of a well-balanced professional discussion on our factions, in our groups with those or other candidates for ministerial positions, so that we, MPs can understand their vision of the development of this field, so that we can understand their strategy of work, instead, we will learn about candidates for ministers from sources in the media. It's not normal. We're in a hurry again. Hence, there is no quick decision or quality in such a situation. I suppose there are no high-speed solutions to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, six minutes to the National MPs. Please sign up. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after this, Kamelchuk, and we move on to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u115	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, the newly elected Prime Minister of Ukraine! You know, I can't help but mention August 29th last year. Recall how we turned to the newly elected government at that time, with a wish of success, though with great caution and great concern. We didn't believe in that government, but we wanted success because the success of any Ukrainian government is the success and life of our citizens. No one now has the opportunity to give 100 days to any new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And you don't have those 100 days, Mr. Prime Minister. You've had 100 days, Mr. President, and you've taken advantage of them. But the first assessment, and we understood everything during the work of the new government, was the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, which was a continuation of that law of the previous government. And with the opportunity to improve it, having received from the forerunners not the best, you were able to make it even worse. And unfortunately, people felt that way right away. You know, I believe in symbolism in this room. And I don't want what you've forgotten, not just about a woman candidate for ministers, but about a candidate for ministers of social policy, which is the increase in pensions that people expect from you. Because 1 thousand 638 bracelets is the judgment of today's government. With the opportunity to increase pensions, they've sent money to a lot of places, except for the needs of our pensioners, 11 million of our citizens. Dear President of Ukraine, today you have admitted that you have made a mistake. Yes, it was a display of dark power. But I would very much like these mistakes not to become systematic, because every mistake is the life of our citizens. Today we may still have a chance, but I doubt that this government will be able to do so, but in the circumstances where today there is a declaration of unwillingness to leave practice, from the reality of life in which we live. We must serve the people. If that's not the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u116	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I invite National Deputy Olga Mikhailevna Vasilevska-Smagluk, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u117	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, I welcome the desire of the President of Ukraine and our desire to change the government with you, which unfortunately has not fulfilled its obligations, because we have no time for reflection, we need to act. And I am very grateful to you, Mr. President, that you are sensitive to people's desires and aspirations. What do people want? In fact, people don't want the faces of those, young people, old people, people want to change. People want a vision, a strategy: who we are, where we go, where our country should take its place in the world arena. And this, Mr. Prime Minister, you have begun this discussion. But we don't need a discussion, we need concrete action. And about the role and place of Ukraine you have to tell us where its place is, which is our strategy. We need to beat the shadow economy, which is now 70 percent of which you're going to say where. We need to raise people's wages and pensions by not going into debt or printing money. How can you do that? I ask you to answer these questions here and now. Journalists ask me if I am ready to share the political responsibility for the government that has just gone and the government that is coming? I'm telling you, I'm ready. But I believe that you came here not to try, but to achieve. Because if we change government again in six months, I don't think that's going to work. The people of Ukraine will not forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies, take your seats. Now, wait, not so fast. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85 of the 114th Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Here's the procedure. We are now assigning a new composition to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Wait, listen to me. After that, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defense. We continue to vote in favour of the liberation of the past government. Because, on the one hand, he stops working, he ceases to be active after voting for that government. And by that vote, all we can do is vote. Huh? Wait, wait. Then we vote for the release so that people can enter the workbook. And then he takes the oath of a new government. Only after taking an oath does it become rightful. Right? All of it. Dear colleagues, I am voting in accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I am voting on the proposal to appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers according to the submission of the Prime Ministers. Ruslan Petrovich! Corresponding to the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:37:40]] For 277 Decision taken. Please, the Supreme Council of Ukraine (show by factions, please) The Supreme Council of Ukraine to formalize our decision by means of an appropriate decree. Results of the vote. People's Party – 228, Opposition Platform – Life 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood – 0, Future – 18, Voice – 0, Trust – 17, non-fractional – 14. Thank you all again. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next one. Dear colleagues, welcome. [[Applause]] Hello. I understand that you will gain your authority only after making an oath. However, please take your seats in the government’s bed. Please take your seats on the government's bed, except for the candidate for the Secretary of Defense and the minister of foreign rights. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, 106, and 114 of the Ukrainian Defence Minister’s Constitution, are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced the appointment of Taran Andrija Vasilovitch as Ukrainian Defence Minister. You're all provided with the right materials. The statement is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u119	Mr. President, Mr. Head, your distinguished colleagues are present, in accordance with articles 85, 106, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution of Ministers. I'm sorry. The Minister of Defence of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission by the President of Ukraine. According to article 106, paragraph 10, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine has submitted an appropriate application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Taran Andrija Vasilovic as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u120	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? We can vote without it. We can vote. Then write down those who want to discuss the factions. Vladina, I understand, don't you insist? Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, do you insist? Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u121	We understand that it is the President's absolute prerogative to determine at such a difficult time for the country, when the country is in a state of military conflict in the east, a candidate who will be the Minister of Defence, this is also under the President's Constitution, this is essentially the President's prerogative in such a situation. So we will support this vote, and we will not take the time of our discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u122	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, don't you insist? Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u123	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u124	Sophia Romanovna Fedina. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u125	A great company, Mr. President, and I'm probably going to say unpopular things because they're still shooting at the front, and grenades are breaking up on the front. And then, we like to say that peace and we're moving towards peace, but only in 2020, 17 military personnel have died. We've got a lot of wounded. We have massive shelling. We have the fascination of our positions and two other attempts to break our defense line with a Moscow aggressor. And I'll probably tell the truth to everyone that peace is not determined by what we stop shooting, and peace is determined by how much we force an aggressor to get out of our land. And to do that, you need a strong and fighting army. And a strong and combative army, which is a motivated army, is not done because of the withdrawal of troops, because of the reduction of programs, particularly the missile program. Rather than being persecuted by veterans and military officials, it is because of their discredit. In order for the army to be strong and motivated, we need to implement NATO standards. We need to develop cooperation with our European foreign partners. We have to raise the level of security. But what's more, Mr. President, is that military personnel have to feel the back of their heads rather than be on the side of our state. When it seems that we do not have enough time to honor them with a minute of silence or to meet the dead properly. Because those killed in a plane crash have been treated with honor, and those killed in the ATO zone are even trying to remember something at the official level. And here's the important thing to say. When Turkish soldiers were killed, you saw Turkey’s reaction. All over the world, it has been shown that Turkish soldiers cannot be killed. I want my state to stand up for its army in the same way, because that's why our army will be able to protect us. And that's why we want to have a secretary of defense, the minister of defense, Ukraine. And we also want the Commander-in-Chief to be in the best position to protect the security and defence of our nation, and he takes constructive criticism as a call for revitalization and a struggle for the state. Fight for our country like a lion, please. And when I take this opportunity, my dear colleagues, my guests, my guests, I ask that we rise up and have a moment of silence to honor that slain fighter yesterday, whom no one would even like to mention. Our fighters are our pride and strength. Thus, the hero’s eternal memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3169) on the appointment of Taran Andrija Vasilovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:46:21]] For 285 Decision taken. Hello, Mr. Minister. [[Applause]] Please show by factions. "People's Servant" – 239, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Thanks again. Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. In accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukraine’s foreign minister is appointed the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the appointment of Dmitry Ivanovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The report is given by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u127	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national MPs, distinguished audiences! According to articles 85, 106, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukraine’s foreign minister is appointed Supreme Council for the submission of the President of Ukraine. In carrying out his mandate as defined in article 106, paragraph 10, and part four, article 114, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an appropriate application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, please support this submission and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u128	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Tell me if we can discuss this. [[Noise Nodes]] We can vote. Oh, no? Please sign up, sign up. Take it easy. No questions asked. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u129	Please support without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u130	Thank you. Tib Tetian Volodymyr. Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u131	Please give it to Marina Bardini. Bardina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u132	Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u133	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I actually want to welcome the President's decision to appoint Mr. Kuleba as Foreign Minister. And we are happy to support this position, this candidature. And I want, actually, Mr. Future Minister, to call you to the introduction of the Biarric Partnership, which we started with you, which is supported by the partners of the Group of Seven, and actually to show your human leadership, and here perhaps I will appeal a little bit to the opposition that, really, the authorities are working, really, President Greensky is taking over personal leadership in the matter of equality and gender equality policy and government, I think he will demonstrate, and we will continue to implement it at the national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u134	Thank you. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u135	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! You know, from my own experience, I know that a person doesn't get molded when they apply for an assignment. Human beings form their whole lives, and almost everyone has moments where they can be called "the moment of truth." I'm looking at Dmitri Kuleb. I remember in 2011-2012, I was just as beautiful, with a nice tie, with a handkerchief like that red, maybe another one. And then he worked at the central office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was in the days of Yanukovich. This was when the opposition sat in prison for politically motivated sentences. That was by the time Maidan was born. And there was Dmitri Kuleb, who came to the Ministry every morning and was a key contact person between a group of polytechnologists, two or three of whom are now in the US prison; between them and the people in Washington. And you can find a letter from Prosecutor Mueller, one of the authors of which was Dmitry Kuleb, when he lobbyed for guidance (this is certainly not his initiative, he carried out orders) so that a resolution called for the release of prisoners — Julius Timoshenko and others. He said, "Let it be, the elections will pass, and then maybe you'll accept this resolution." And he even said that, he called Yanukovich the big guy -- "the big guy" personally follows that. Mr. Kuleba, the big guy was following up on this. Well, Vladimir Alexanderovich, you can't be called a big guy in that sense, but you are the President of Ukraine. You know, I don't think that things like that from a moral point of view, from the point of view of values that you can talk about, you can ignore them so easily, you can walk, you can ignore them. I'm saying this because I've been through it, yes. So these things I just want people to know who are going to vote so that it doesn't happen again. Because if this happens over and over again, we're going to get what Janukovich got. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u136	Thank you. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u137	Please hand over Father Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u138	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u139	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, dear friends, Mr. President of Ukraine! First of all, we do not want to hear high-level phrases before the Foreign Minister votes and the Prime Minister's position. We want to hear clearly that there will be an irreversibility of the Euro-Atlantic course of the Ukrainian State. This is the first position. We understand that Mr. Pristajko, the former Foreign Minister, was not the worst foreign minister. And we know that he's been saying lately that the Minsk process is an alternative and we need to look for alternatives to the Minsk process. We want to understand from the mouth of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, first of all the foreign minister, whether this is really going to be an alternative to the Minsk process. We would like to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs from the Supreme Council rostrum so that he can be made available to representatives of factions and MPs in general during the preparation stages for the next meeting in the "Normandi format". And one more moment. We have recently heard from the mouth of the majority representatives that we must supply water to the occupied Crimea. We have a position that we cannot definitely do this, but we would also like to hear the position of the government and the minister of the future, the foreign minister in this case. Are we selling water to the invader or what? What is our position, and how consistent will we be in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u140	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u141	Thank you. Mr. President, the honourable presidency, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, these are the respective constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine -- to apply for us to serve as foreign minister. And our faction is defined. We do not support this candidacy for a number of reasons. First of all, we never heard how this candidate would act as foreign minister in his post, because, if you take the experience of the predecessor, Mr. Pristajko, although I was surprised to read that he was still in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he was absolutely not in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the oath made by the members of the government. Let me give you an example. First question. There is article 25 of the Constitution, which clearly and clearly states that the State guarantees the care and protection of its citizens who are outside Ukraine. Questions. When you voted in favour of the deprivation of pensions, legal pensions, Ukrainian citizens who are in temporary occupied territories, you violated the Constitution of Ukraine, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and you actually took over the property of the citizens because the pension is a deferred salary, it is the property of our citizens and the State is obliged to pay it, regardless of what territory they are in. The second question. There are 35 articles in the Constitution that the State does not interfere with the work of the church. When our diplomats claim and intervene in church activities and tell us which church is correct and which is not, they are not released on the same day, even though they are obliged to do so. When the minister of foreign affairs claims that he does not recognize the State festival that is enshrined in our law on May 9, the minister should be deprived of his office. That is why I urge that the newly appointed foreign minister first adhere to the Constitution of Ukraine and the oath they make to the Ukrainian people. I would ask Mr. President to control this matter. It's your authorization, it's your function. And so that those who break the law will not be able to work in their positions. We want them to work in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of all their fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u142	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u143	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We understand that the President of Ukraine has the full right and all powers to determine with the nomination of the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we also understand that the President has to take full responsibility for the policy he introduces in the foreign political arena. Our faction will not vote for the new foreign minister, because it's not in the name, because the fact is that this policy is actually formed in the Bank's but not even in the office of the President of Ukraine. And there, in the Bank's office, where instructions will be given that will have to be given to the new foreign minister, there is today an external policy of Ukraine, which is an external policy that destroys the anti-putinian international coalition, in fact it forms such a policy that is a policy of blind eyes, it's a policy not to call black black and white, it's a policy to support an aggressor because of his tasks and challenges. It's a policy of surrender in front of the enemy, and it's a policy you just have to stop shooting. Who are you planning on building peace with, Mr. President? Lookin' around. Looking back into Putin’s eyes, will you build peace with him? So unfortunately, today's last name at the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is completely irrelevant. Our diplomats stopped hearing. The ideas of our diplomats no longer come to the Office of Banks. Our diplomatic front, to which we have been truly proud over the past five years, as well as our soldiers, has today been overwhelmed by this foreign policy. It is important for us to go to victory. That is why we, Mr. President, are ready to lay our shoulders for victory, but we will not be humiliated. For us, treachery policy is not an option; for us, capitulation policy is not an option. And that's in principle for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 3170, on the appointment of Dmitry Ivanovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[20:00:40]] For 288 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 242, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 16, "non-faction" – 12. Congratulations, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Take your place in the government's bed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider the draft Decision on the Liberation of Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (Registration No. 3171). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. It's an old government that we've talked about so much about. Then there'll be an oath. [[20:01:35]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, does this matter need to be discussed? We can vote. I'll bet you a vote. Huh? It's given to you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on discharge from office of the Ministers of Ukraine (registration number 3171). Please support and vote. [[20:02:20]] For 336 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, members of the Cabinet of Ministers on the day of their appointment shall take an oath at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the formation of a new cabinet of Ukrainian Ministers, the oath will be read by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and signed by each member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The word for reading the text of the oath is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u145	An oath from a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: "I, Smigal Denis Anatoliyovich, knowing the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. March 4, 2020." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u146	Dear Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I welcome you to your office. I wish you good luck. I wish everyone the accomplishments of those promises that you have made and that people expect us to do. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Dear colleagues, we turn to the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Bureau of Investigation of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office in the area of overcoming corruption in Ukraine and strengthening the rule of law. The next order of business is proposed for the day’s consideration of the matter. Take the reporters to five minutes each. To ask questions from MPs and groups for two questions in a row: 1 minute for questions, 2 minutes for answers. And speaking from the Ukrainian national deputies, up to six minutes. Is there no objection? Honourable National MPs, the report is given to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Arsen Borisovich Avakov. Dear colleagues, I think you'll have time to welcome the government. In the meantime, let's listen to law enforcement and anti-corruption officials. Galino Igorova, you're not hearing very well, with all due respect, take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u147	Dear people of Ukraine! Mr. President! Deputies! I'm not a health minister, but I'm going to start with the most relevant topic, the Coronavirus. Tomorrow we open the door to the New Sanjar Medical Center after an observation, and our fellow citizens finally complete their difficult journey home. This is a significant event for us, for the whole state and for the IMF at all. On February 20th, the incident showed not only the tendency of our citizens to succumb to provocations but also the ability of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to act effectively, with determination, determination and respect for citizens' rights. We were able to ensure that the evacuations were properly provided. Our police, the N.C.P.D., did a tolerant job without the use of rubber sticks, tear gas, and other power tools. With the dignity of reporting, during the clashes of no civilian casualties. Sadly, nine law enforcement officers were injured, one still in a hospital with serious injuries. The Ministry continues to be prepared to provide the necessary quarantine conditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in Ukraine, as quickly and qualitatively as we set up a system of temperature screening at the border, just as we did yesterday in Chernobyl, and we will continue to act. Every day we respond to the challenges of time and pass the test. That's how we do it. Everything that's going on in the country, from the Coronavirus to the Donbas line-up violations, from mass action, from extraordinary events, all of this is the responsibility of the IMF. At the same time, we do our daily work in all directions. The National Police, the National Guard, the State Border Service, the State Emergency Service, the State Migration Service, the Service Centres and others from fighting crime, putting out fires, protecting the border and humanitarian exchange, until the introduction of the school police system. I'd like to brief you on a few indicators. National Police. Let's start with the most serious type of crime: deliberate murder. It's the most accurate indicator, because it's said not to hide the body. I'm going to show you a few slides. We've been compiling data since the 1960s, and now you see an objective picture: the number of mental homicides last year corresponds to the average in peace years. I'll add that the level of detection of these serious crimes is now 93.5 percent, and that's also an active prevention. And these are the other numbers for last year's reporting. In the country, the number of deliberate killings decreased by 5 per cent, and fewer serious injuries resulted in death by 13 per cent, robberies by 15 per cent, robberies by 18, robberies by 16, motorists by 17 per cent. Such results indicate the professional work of the police, the criminal investigation officers, and I also hope for positive changes in society, a change in his mood. From uncertainty and despair to hope and optimism. A few more indicators of our work last year. 275 organized crime groups were destroyed. Nearly 2,000 criminal offences have been detected in the area of cybersecurity. 536 cybercrimes have been reported. 40 international drug channels have been dismantled. By the way, yesterday we stopped the biggest drug sale in the country and removed the drugs for 110 million dollars. The entire chain was discovered, from a laboratory that produced 100 kilograms of psychotropic substances per month to a network of bookmark makers and leaders of a criminal organization. The distribution of drugs on the street and through the Internet among young people is the scourge of our modern society. And that's why we're now adding a particular focus on this kind of crime in addition to the detection of large drug supply channels from abroad. In general, the National Police is the largest drug holder in the country. Assess the amount of drugs that have been removed that are now being stored. Cannabis is 2 tons, heroin is 1,000 kilograms, cocaine is 1,000 kilograms, amphetamine is 400, hashish is 300 and so on. I have a request to the National Deputies. Determine how this raw material can be implemented for the benefit of the State budget and Ukrainian medicine. Let's move on. Since the beginning of the year, the state’s emergency services have made humanitarian exchanges in the zone of 314 and 0.2 acres [314 and 0.2 ha]. Each week, 22.5 acres [22.5 ha] of dangerous territory is cleansed. Last year, seven regions launched the Community Police Officer project, providing security and providing police services to local communities. In 2020, we plan to expand it throughout Ukraine. That's 300,000 locations. In the area of public security, we're launching a Scandinavian model of police work in mass media, involving the police in the dialogue. By the way, last year there were 60,000 large - scale measures involving 21.5 million people. At the same time, the number of citizens affected decreased by 54 percent in previous years, and the number of policemen also decreased by 56 percent. We're introducing the idea of an intellectual video surveillance system, a harpoon information system, which is now connected to almost 2,000 intellectual cameras with a video analysis function. It is able to identify the registration marks of means of transport and verify their involvement in the commission of offences or abductions. I'm going to stop on a very painful subject right now. Every day I report to the President of Ukraine on the number of deaths in the country. These are scary numbers. And it's a shame that there are tens of times more people killed in the crash than there are in the war. Please note the dynamics of mortality as a result of accidents over the years. In the first year after the introduction of the Ukrainian Police Patrol, 23 percent had been killed. We've saved a thousand, think about it, a thousand human lives. And in the coming years, the mortality rate is almost unchanged. This suggests that there is a need for closer monitoring of road traffic rules, namely the introduction of automatic photo-revision and observation. The M.O.S. is ready on its own. We're running a summary test and we're starting this spring. Dear colleagues, I have quite a list of our topics, and each one is worth a separate presentation. But I want to allocate the only civil protection aviation security system that now has 8 gintocrylics and will work 55 for our safety, for our medicine. We are now launching a new inter-government programme between the government of Ukraine and France on the maritime component of the border protection system. And I'm going to report this to you separately today. And the last. I want to emphasize that by the number of online services the IMF is the most developed area in the country. From the electronic driver's office and online purchases, the information on the absence of forensics and digital images, the driver's license in the mobile extension "Dia" we implemented along with the Ministry of Digital Transformation, Michael Fedorov. In the near future, the digital passport of a Ukrainian citizen, a passport to go abroad, will be in operation. And now I'm going to show you another piece of news that we're going to offer you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u148	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u149	It's such an extension. It's called My Roll. We will present it, and everyone will be able to use it urgently and contact the police as soon as possible. I didn't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u150	Thank you, Arsen Borisovich. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, John Hennadiovich Bakanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u151	Good day to you all! Dear Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, the citizens of Ukraine, the reputable newly elected government! Thank you for being able to report from this rostrum. Personally, I understand very well the importance of security and the rule of law for every Ukrainian. However, I would like to stress separately that the country's security does not like pyar, security is first of all concrete actions and results, and we have them. The strategic orientations of the updated Security Service are clearly defined as a modern and effective service that can neutralize any threat in its embryo. I believe that the new Ukrainian Security Service Law, which I hope will appear in the Supreme Council for days, will help us to do so. But let me say, we've already changed our approach to our work, so now I'm going to stop at the most resonant achievements of our work. So let's get to the point. Speaking of the safety of our tap, we need to mention 114 counterintelligence tours, 40 persons in these cases have already received court sentences according to the articles: treason, espionage, and so forth. You're going to say, not really about fighting corruption, but it's important for our country, for our citizens, my answer is clear -- yes, it's important. In the field of military and technical cooperation, we discovered corruption schemes that wanted to steal more than $700 million. The acquisition of property by nearly one and a half billion dollars in defense orders was also warned. Now to point results in the fight against corruption. According to our submission of 225 officials, 80 people were sentenced to various lengths of time to report a suspicion of corruption. The spring has come, honourable deputies. We plant and plant. [[Applause]] In fact, last week we reported the suspicion of a treekeeper who organized a corruption scheme of nearly 100 million dollars. The Service discovered a scheme for the occupation of hundreds of acres [100 ha] of land that was run by the former leadership of the State Department in Kiev. Guess what the cost is. This is about damage to the state in almost 800 million dollars. And these are not isolated cases, this is the Ukrainian Security Service's systematic work on the detection of corruption. Let's move on. Ukraine's updated Security Service has not caused any damage to the state in recent times, more than 25.7 billion dollars, two, I would stress, two, annual budgets of the Ukrainian Security Service. We stopped the conversion centers with a total circulation of over 4 billion dollars, stopped the operation of illegal casinos and casinos in six parts of Ukraine, blocked the operation of illegal trucks throughout the country. We have intensified the fight against drug trafficking. For example, just a few days ago, we detained drug dealers who drove a shipment of cocaine to the sum of nearly 90 million dollars. The divides over the year wanted to place this poison for almost 1.4 billion dollars. Not long ago, the Security Service removed the largest shipment of smuggled cigarettes worth 120 million dollars. And today, along with the State Tax Service. Mr. Head, I'd like to add another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u152	You have 30 seconds more time, I think you'll have enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u153	Today, with the State Tax Service, 500 million dollars were added to the government’s government budget as a result of the detinction of the taxpayer’s market. In doing so, we don't forget to investigate criminal cases, I want to remind you of very important socially important cases. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Security Service has recently been conducting a joint operation with our partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u154	30 seconds, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u155	We detained Mr. Levin in Bulgaria. And I'm sure when Mr. Levin arrives in Ukraine, we'll speed up the case of the murder of Catherine Gandzük. I am grateful to the community, the President, the people's deputies for supporting the changes that are taking place in the Ukrainian Security Service. In particular, I want to point out that I am personally prepared to compromise when I consider the Security Service Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u156	Ivan Hennadiovich, it's like the case: if they didn't make it, he got away. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, John Hennadiovich, already colleagues say that double standards. Because we don't add to the people's deputies, yes. They're not national MPs, they're respected colleagues. Ivan Hennadiovich, thank you. I understand, no, Ivan Hennadiovich, with all due respect, the rules have been proved. Thank you. Venedictova Irina Valentinovna, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u157	Good day, distinguished people of Ukraine, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, present! You're looking at the basics and statistics on the results of the D.B.I. They're given to you and additional material is displayed on the screen. After my appointment, I discovered the following main problems of the DBD: staff incompetence, lack of internal legal instruments to regulate activities, blocked work by the Public Control Board, inadequate material and technical security, lack of effective interaction with other law enforcement agencies and, above all, with the Office of the Attorney General. More important organizational documents have been developed during the month, working meetings with law enforcement authorities and international organizations have been carried out, they have been removed from their service responsibilities by the heads of a number of territorial administrations, they have been audited by the DBR authorities, they have been established by the investigation unit for the 2013-2014 events, they have been launched and the first results presented. A system of reporting to society every month has been introduced. The results have also been reached: 16.5,000 cases have been filed, 545 reports of suspicion have been delivered in 2 months of the new year, 65 persons have been detained, and 425 have been prosecuted. But only the figures and facts do not matter until the criminal is in prison and the money obtained by the crime course is returned to the victims or compensated to the state’s budget. This requires a coordinated work of the law enforcement system and justice system. I want to draw your attention to the negative procedural and organizational factors that are impeding the goal. First of all, the definition of D.B.I. It intersects with the substantiation of the NAB. In a series of cases it's not just a duplication of functions, it's a transfer from one organ to another at any stage and in a random order. Without an alternative, the DBR will only deal with corruption on the lower chain and on the middle. Secondly, the absence of a procedure for summary sentencing of a person who makes it difficult to bring responsibility to persons who are hiding outside the State or in occupied territories. Thirdly, an overly bureaucratic procedure in a pre-trial investigation. The need to reconcile with the investigator almost every action he or she has with the prosecutor. We're wasting time, we're losing evidence. Fourthly, the Office of the Attorney General's Office has been built in such a way that at present more than a thousand DBDs have not assigned process leaders, and their actual investigation has been blocked accordingly. But the worst thing about this situation is that the Attorney General not only hides this fact, but he denies it. On Monday, I received a letter on this subject. That's why I sent a letter yesterday in response to 26 pages of criminal conduct numbers, representing 1,272 criminal conducts that are not assigned to a trial manager, without closed, without unification and without interruption. And you understand very well that these cases also require a prosecutor, at least so that citizens can sue the court. The effective work of any investigative body in this order cannot be at all. In addition, it is important to emphasize that the DBR does not play politics, as though some people did not point to any political involvement associated with the arrivals of valid national MPs to the DBR, and this is only done for their own pyar. The law clearly stipulates that according to article 481 of the Criminal Procedure Code, written reports of suspicion to national deputies are made exclusively by the Attorney General. There is no such procedural action in this case -- agreeing or not agreeing to the suspicion, only he is authorized to put it together. The following DBRs are not authorized to do so and cannot do so with regard to national MPs. Moreover, documents submitted to the Attorney General's Office for signature by the Attorney-General are prepared exclusively by the PSC staff. Therefore, the basis and the law, the composition, the signature, the delivery of a report of suspicion to the national deputy is solely the prerogative of the Attorney General. Using DBD premises for this is also his decision as an organizer. The DBR is out of politics and is working exclusively for the people of Ukraine and the state of Ukraine. All of us are equal before the law. And we care for the protection of all citizens regardless of their status and political preferences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u158	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. It is given to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Artem Sergiyovich Sitnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u159	The honourable President, the honourable present, before starting his brief speech, would like to remind you that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine has twice reported on the results of its work to the President, the Parliament, the Government, and this has been done recently. The report was sent to Parliament, discussed publicly at an anti-corruption committee meeting in Parliament, but somehow no one joined in a constructive discussion on the report. But now we are invited to the Parliamentary Hall. Why is this happening? Well, part of that can be explained by what's happening in Parliament. There are furs outside Parliament, there are people who are paying for an oligarch who is now abroad, who has stolen 1 billion 200 million dollars, and instead of returning it to the budget, there are arrangements at the NABU, near the parliament, near the government. Another example. It's a criminal case for Private Bank. Recently, the Attorney General accumulated all matters in the NABU. Now these things are in the final stages. And just a lack of expertise in making these decisions puts the future in perspective. Accordingly, you all know what oligarch is doing media support for all of these measures, which oligarchus is organizing a convention of signatures in Parliament. Next thing. Next thing you know, Skrnafta. Crookedefta is 10 billion damage to the state. There is now a procedure to reconcile suspicions on this matter, including high-level owners. Once again, feeling this decision that is approaching, there is once again the normal pressure that we have experienced in the last five years when we are investigating such matters. And there are so many examples. To make it. Let me tell you something, please. Now, let's talk about the numbers. If you want to hear the numbers. 240 detectives of the anticorruption bureau during the Bureau’s lifetime have made more than a thousand investigators before that. I won't talk long about numbers, just name a few. If we're talking about landings, if we're talking about no one sitting behind bars. Today, there are 438 charges in the anticorruption court, which was created on September 5, 2019. These are top owners, members of criminal organizations in the field of energy, in virtually all sectors of the state sector of the economy. 235 suspects are now in the lead of detectives, only 700. Among them are ministers, heads of law enforcement, heads of government, and many, many others, more than 50 judges. The amount of damage that is currently being investigated amounts to 230 billion dollars. Half of that amount is the amount that was withdrawn from Private Bank. Half, think about it! A lot more than that IMF tranche we can't get. Now, as far as the last period of time is concerned. From May to the criminal investigation of anticorruption detectives, 148 suspects were reported to be high - ranking. Every three days suspicions are announced, every three days the case is referred to the court. This was due to the position of the Attorney General, who took the cases sold to the former director of the Attorney General's Office and allowed them to be completed and brought to trial. And to date, 700 high - ranking workers are already being held accountable, nearly 500 of them being on the bench of defendants. And once again, I would like to emphasize and remind MPs who don't know that the mandate of the anti-corruption office ended after we convinced the prosecutor that there was enough evidence in the case and that it could, in fact, be referred to the court, further, the mandate of the anti-corruption court. And I'm going to remind you of the words of the anti-corruption prosecutor who, on the basis of the anti-corruption court, says that by the end of the year, up to 100 sentences on resonant criminal matters will be handed down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u160	Thank you. Thank you, Artem Sergiyovich. The word is given to the Attorney General, Ruslan Georgiyovich Ryabosapci.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u161	Dear Mr. President, distinguished national MPs! Six months ago, for the support of the head of state and you, we started reforming the prosecutor's office. And I think it's one of our most important gains in the last six months. We are the only law enforcement agency that has embarked on real reform that has begun real change. On the other hand, it's not just our profit, we're being criticized for it, because prosecutors from the D.A.'s office have been cleaned up and sold and bought cases that annoy the judge. Not only in the center, but in the regions, because the local princes also lose their own touch. The other thing we're being told is that we don't have any landings. If you take top-corruption, everyone in this room knows that a separate anti-corruption infrastructure is being created -- the NAB, the SAP, and the anti-corruption court -- which are responsible for so-called top-seats. Everyone in this room also knows that the Attorney General's Office has no influence on this anti-corruption infrastructure. This was one or more of the keys to the independence and effectiveness of this system. On the other hand, when it comes to middle - level corruption and below - average corruption, over 6 months since September of the month 766 were transferred to court, 880 people are involved in this exercise, 250 corrupt people have been sentenced to their sentences, that is, landings are. It was strange enough for me to know that one of the claims before the Attorney General's Office was that we were blocking or not investigating the case of the late Catherine Hanszük. I won't excuse myself. Yesterday, Catherine's father addressed the President with an open letter, and he said it all. John Bakanov, Head of the Security Service, said that today. In fact, thanks to our efforts to stop Levin, we have made much further progress in the investigation. Last but not least, the reform of the prosecutor's office is not my quest, not my idea, it's actually the sense of state policy in the law enforcement field. Yes, landings are important and relevant, but these are episodes in the country's life, and the reform of the prosecutor's office is her future life many years ahead, and it is for which we have a personal political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u162	Thank you, Ruslan Georgievich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions. Please sign up to the MPs and groups for questions. Look, we agreed on the Conciliation Council that on one question. One round. And the second question is the second round, all the MP factions and groups. You can ask any reporter. Please sign up. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u163	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u164	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u165	Good afternoon. Questions. How does the Attorney-General feel about the D.B.I.’s intention to initiate the repeal of the Amnesty Law and thus bring the possible responsibility of a thousand members of the D.C.? That's the first one. The other one. Why cancel. After the removal of the MP's in touch with the office of Henprocuror, did he initiate a criminal case against Sofia Fedina for political reasons because of the criticism of President Zelenski? And the third question. Why is the DBR, located in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, always illegally used by the Cave Court in the nearby Caver district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u166	Turn it on, please. No, I think we can get out of here. Ruslan Georgiyovich, please sit down. I think it'll be more comfortable. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u167	Thank you for asking. As for the last question. As far as the D.B.I.'s legal address is concerned, I think the Director of the D.B.I. will be able to answer. Regarding the suspicion reported to Sofia Fedina, there were formal signs of crime. And we had no opportunity to do otherwise, but only as provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code. I'm sorry, you can repeat the first question. I forgot. Oh, amnesty for Midan's affairs. I think it's a ridiculous idea. [[Applause]] And a senseless idea, and from a legal point of view. Because it's not going to make the situation any better. But this law would have to be amended because there is at least one rule that prevents the investigation of matters regardless of who might have been the person who committed these crimes. This rule applies in particular to the inability to collect evidence, to store information, and it needs to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u168	Thank you. Drabovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u169	You can talk, yeah. I've got it. Excuse me, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u170	Turn it on, please. Irina Valentine's Day, now question, excuse me. I understand. We don't have a debate here between the D.B.I. and the Attorney General. As part of his answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, time is up. No, it's not. To one reporter. You'll have it. Give Venice a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u171	Dear colleagues, about the D.B.I. registration site. The official registration of the State Bureau of Investigation is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in Gruszewski. Today it's an official address.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u172	Thank you. Drabovsky Anatoly Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u173	Thank you. I have a question for the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Mr. Bakanov. As early as summer, the president had been commissioned to combat smuggling. What exactly is done by your authority, what can you say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u174	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, in the materials you have, there are clear results, they're done by the Security Service in two directions. The first step is to fight smuggling directly. The second is the fight against corruption in customs. In fact, in the last six months alone, the amount of confiscated smuggling has reached 140 million dollars. 29 persons sentenced. The question posed by the President in the summer gave an appropriate commission where I reported it to the National Security and Defence Council. In order to act more effectively against smuggling, I think only two things need to be done by the Ukrainian Security Service. The first is to return the criminal responsibility for smuggling. And secondly, to set up online exchange of customs information with partner countries. Taking into account the first point on the need for criminal liability for smuggling, we consulted Minfin, with the State Tax Inspectorate, with Nacpol, with a large business that is now ready to launch such an initiative, although it is more appropriate to introduce criminal responsibility for the smuggling of taxable goods. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u175	Thank you. Next question, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u176	Thank you. First. Dear friends, we don't make any decisions today. The other one. We don't want a pyar, we want jobs to protect citizens and fight corruption. We've heard talk today about the fight against various crimes more than words about the state of the economy from the mouth of the government, the previous government. So there's actually no question in the "For the Future" MP's group to the representatives of the force block in the format that is now defined in an out-of-order session, except for one symbolic one -- a number of leaders of the force unit complain that they lack the authority. I have a question for the Attorney General as a solid representative of the force bloc. Remembering the classics that you still lack in authority, Mr. Attorney General, to complete Midan's affairs and other resonant matters that society is looking forward to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u177	Well, I'm going to answer to a colleague who probably doesn't have much control over what's going on since last year, which is the first time the prosecutor's office has made a political decision in 20 years and we've given up the power of pretrial investigation. These are the transitional positions that have lasted 20 years. And we were the first to assume this political responsibility, and we did not continue these games with the continuation of powers. We are the first to start reforming the law enforcement system, and we are the only ones currently making real reform. And we're not asking for new powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u178	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u179	Give Kiwi to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u180	Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u181	Good evening, fellows! I have a question for our power structures, for the Attorney General. I will also contact our head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And I want an answer. Tell me, please, just me and the person who is very careful about what's going on around here. And tell me, why does the Attorney General meet with the ambassadors of the Great Seven on the eve of his release? Who was in agreement with this meeting and its presence? Why, as Attorney General of Ukraine, do you seek support, not in the Ukrainian Parliament, but in representatives of other states? Have you made any commitments to representatives of other nations? Is there an external influence on you by other nations or on the entire legal system? This is my question to you as Attorney General. Why don't you, as Attorney General, go for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u182	Thank you, Elijah Volodymyrovich. Ruslan Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u183	Look, first of all, the Attorney General, he's independent, and he doesn't agree with who he's dating, including with respectable people's deputies, who, by the way, are hiding from us and still haven't come to their senses. It's different. [[B in m in s a l in]] I invited you twice, come to us, and we'll talk about it. About who I was seeing and where I was dating. The G7s aren't the only ones I'm dating. The G7 ambassadors meet the government. Ambassadors G7 are meeting with the President's Office Manager, and even the President is meeting. This does not mean that we are betraying the country’s interests. But there are people who drive while we meet with Ambassador G7 to Moscow and negotiate there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u184	Thank you. The great Sergey Anatolyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ilja Volodymyrovich! Ilja Volodymyrovich! Thank you. Quiet, please. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u185	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u186	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please tell me I'm addressing Arsen Avakov and the Attorney General right now. There's a spike in the Lugansk district: the district attorney and the head of the Lugansk district police. In the Luhansk region, there's a drug trade, and in the Lugansk region, today, the metal carnage is being ripped apart in all factories, and this is the Proletarius factory, and it's being broken down by force. Today, in Luhansk, smuggled in, looted the surface layers of coal, which are diggers, woodcuts. At night goes the forest, the green forest is completely exported, it's cut off, it's a peaceful valley, it's a cellular Lugansk district.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u187	To whom did the question come? To Habakkuk? No, no, no, no, no. Sergei Volodymyrovich, to whom question? One person. The D.A. doesn't have that job. Sergey Volodymyrovich, Minister of Interior or Attorney General? Attorney General Ruslan Georgiyovich, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u188	I heard that I understood the question. What's the problem? I think Arsen Borisovich is going to confirm that a few weeks ago, a scheme with violations of election legislation was discovered. And that's probably the scheme that the prosecutors opened up together with the police, and it became a trigger, as it's fashionable to say now, or the reason for it. Maybe Arsen Borisovich will add. Please turn on Avakov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u189	Your Honor, this may be unfortunate. Turn around and we'll check your information. Well, the sugar trade in the elections you've been running, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u190	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u191	Please pass the word to Mr. Bondariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u192	Who, again? Bondarev. Please include Constantine Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u193	I have a question for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Ivan Hennadijovich, you have such a subordinate, major anti-corruption fighter, Andrew Naumov. It leads you in a direction like the fight against internal security and the search for corruption in the system. This person is very famous in Kiev, and I have been working in Kiev for 20 years. This man was the leader of all corruption when he was working in the Blackwater AES alienation zone. There are three or more criminal D.B.I. cases that aren't being investigated. Unfortunately, you have to turn to the President in this way and ask him to pay attention because you're sending my calls to some of your subordinates and they're in some sort of acne.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u194	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I'd like to say that he's not in charge of the internal security unit at the Ukrainian Security Service, and he's in charge of the internal security unit at the Ukrainian Security Service. In fact, the information you're talking about is being tested as part of the criminal conduct that the D.B.I. is running today. If his guilt is proved, he will be punished accordingly. I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution, a person is innocent until his guilt is proved in court. At the same time, if you come to us with specific facts of his corruption, we will conduct an internal examination and transfer the materials to the appropriate competent authority. A lot of people might think that internal security checks are some kind of formality. But I would like to remind you that an internal inspection of illegal cigarette damage, an internal inspection of the illegal distribution of apartments in Jack House, an internal check on "happy leaves" has turned to specific information on the commission of a crime by the State Bureau of Investigation, which is currently conducting and investigating appropriate criminal conduct. So please: Look, we'll see, we'll respond, but only within the limits of the law. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to sign up for a question from MP factions and groups. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u196	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". In no way have I ever traded sugar in my life, but I have helped people, and I will always help them. I've been helping people every day for 15 years. 26 receptions in Luhansk region. Second, a question to the Attorney General. Please tell me, Your Honor, Sukhov, Shahov was at your reception, given to you personally 79 criminal conducts, and received no answer from you. After the murder of Sergei Samarski. Why are you only talking about Katherine Hanszük? Sergey Samarski was killed, a Butkov gang in Sevierodonecki, and stole 700 million dollars! I've been talking about this in every single speech I've ever heard from the rostrum. Today the Lugansk region is looted every day. 100 million dollars is recorded in the e-declaration by the Secretary of the City Council of Sevierodonetsk. You're not paying attention to Shahov, so hear! Janukovic fought with me, and so on and so forth. Didn't you run away from it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u197	Thank you. Who will answer that? Nobody. Once again, the Attorney General. Ruslan Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u198	The materials were given to us. Indeed, there have been appeals, they have been handed over to the appropriate prosecutors for execution, and these facts are being verified. If we have the results of the test, obviously we'll let you know more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u199	Thank you. Lopushana Angela Victorovna Oh, I'm sorry. Lopushian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u200	May I have the floor to Arthur Gerasimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u201	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u202	To the Attorney General. Journalists have reported that you were at the Greensky Office, where you were required to sign three illegal suspicions against President Dustenk. Also, the leader of the "Serial of the People" faction reported that the last drop for your release was the failure to sign these suspicions. Comment on this. To the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The so - called evidence in the Sheremet case is falling to pieces, but people are being held under arrest. When will innocent people be released? And to the director of the NABU. When will the real investigation of what is called Truba and Vuka film begin, which proves that both the law enforcement system and the D.B.I.D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u203	It's okay, isn't it? As far as I'm concerned that I've been asked to sign suspicions, that's not true. No one ever gave me any instructions to sign or not sign any suspicions. First. As for the words of Arahama, let Arahamiah comment on his own words.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u204	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Avakov? Irina Valentine's Day. Naboo? I heard Sitnik and Habakkuk. Artem Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u205	I'm going to remind you that when there were discussions in the office of the Chief of Staff, it wasn't our case, it was an investigation conducted by the Attorney General's Office, and we were conducting an operational escort. And unfortunately, we've never had one. We asked then Attorney General Lucenk to refer the case to the court for an objective assessment of the material that was received, but twice in our troubles or questions was denied. To this day, the Ukrainian Security Service is the body of the judicial investigation. But we are ready to continue working and helping to establish the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u206	Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u207	Your Honor, I don't want to comment on the murder within the political rhetoric. In general, the decision is taken by the court. And if the court has enough evidence, that's fine. If not enough, a decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u208	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Dear colleagues, let us ask one question, not everyone in a circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u209	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a question about one topic. And yet I want to address the head of the D.B.I. and the Attorney General. Fighting organized crime groups is becoming key to what you report. An incredible event took place in Zaporozhye. The leader of such a criminal group, thanks to your coordinated work, was detained. But the former director of the Attorney General's Office has disappeared the best evidence base that has been destroyed, as it is now clear, consciously. I'm calling on the Attorney General and the D.B.I. Manager to investigate: where the money that was removed, millions, film, disks and all the other bases can be shared, without which one of the most resonant cases of the Anisim gang could be broken in front of the eyes, which terrorized the Zaporezite area in 2010-2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u210	Mr. Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u211	I thank you for that question. Yes, it is a serious and important success for us. And we're going to do everything we can to get this case to court as soon as possible and to be duly concluded with a court verdict. As far as you are concerned, we will check as quickly as possible. Since we understand the importance of this evidence and the time, the time is running out. We're still here. Before that, I gave my colleagues an assignment to start this test. And we'll let you know as soon as we finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u212	Dear National Deputy Sobolev, today I have received a parliamentary appeal from you. If in 214 we can register, we'll log in and we'll start figuring it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u213	Thank you. Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u214	Please pass the word to Gorbenko Ruslan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u215	Gorbenko again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u216	Good evening! Gorbenko, Servant of the People. I have a question for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Dear John Hennadiovich, what is going on with the Security Service reform? When will the bill finally be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? What are you doing as head of the Security Service now, waiting for this law to be passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u217	Thank you so much for asking. This is a painful and sensitive question, because in fact, by fulfilling that promise that I made while I was in the rostrum of the Supreme Council in the fall, I made it clear that I had implemented and passed on a draft law designed by the Ukrainian Security Service to the Office of the President. Taking into account the unlimited number of opinions on this subject, the opinions of international partners, experts, different persons on this subject, I took part in the working group on this issue until we approved the 12th final edition of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. Then, unfortunately, I left this group and asked the working group to finish the question. I know that they are at the final stage and will appear in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the coming days. Instead, we did not wait for the adoption of the law; we started reforming the Ukrainian Security Service in the following directions. First of all, we've changed the approach of the Ukrainian Security Service from a reactive to a proactive one. What does that mean? That we're trying to act no longer on the fact that we're committing a crime, and yet we're trying to warn that crime, the risks that today pose to national security. Secondly, we've borrowed from our partners the structure of their unit and we're taking on their experience. Thirdly, we're changing general approaches to a risk-oriented approach. What does that mean? In fact, the structure of the Security Service as it is today is a little out of date. Today, there are no more threats that are in line with the structure of the Ukrainian Security Service that exists today. Therefore, the entire account, all operational service activity today, is being handled and directed, not according to the structure of the Ukrainian Security Service that was once approved, but taking into account the risks faced by the Ukrainian State today and before national security. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u218	Thank you. Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u219	I want to give you my word, but I have something else to say, but I'm going to give the word to my colleague Renata Kuzmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u220	To the Attorney General. Five years ago a journalist named Olesi Buzin was killed in downtown Kiev. For 5 years, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has kept material on the involvement of law enforcement officials in this murder. Olese’s mother addressed the President of Ukraine, Prashenko, for four years he could not find time to make a personal reception. I want to speak to President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich, I ask you to personally receive the mother of the murdered journalist Olesia Buzina, she writes to you for a year, and she receives answers from the Attorney General of Rybosapka, who accepts the mothers of the murdered journalists, not a presidential matter. I'm asking you to pay attention to this and implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u221	Thank you. Question before. Is there no such thing? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have six minutes to speak from the National MPs. Please sign up. Three minutes for two performances. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u222	Give it to Duck Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u223	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u224	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the head of the SBU. The thing is, we have things going on today that contradict today's state that call itself democratic. We have adopted a law in which everything that has the symbolism of Nazism, everything that has the symbolism of fascism, must be punished. Sadly, things are happening today that speak of other things. About the symbolism and propaganda of Nazism at the rallies today, at other meetings where government officials are present today. I'd like to ask the head of the HQ specifically. Are there matters that are at stake on this issue? And if not, what is your personal position on these matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u225	Thank you so much for asking. Regardless of the fact that we have already moved on to the performances of the national deputies, I will be happy to answer it. I want to point out that the law in our country is one for all. And if these groups you're talking about are going to commit a violation of the law, then the Ukrainian Security Service is going to respond to these crimes in accordance with the existing legislation, in accordance with the jurisdiction and jurisdiction assigned to the Ukrainian Security Service. There's a more radical option. But in order to decide and follow a more radical approach, I think the Ukrainian Security Service needs to unite with other law enforcement agencies once and for all, and to carry out a single operation on this matter. Thank you so much for asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u226	Thank you. Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u227	May I have your word to the Prince's Santa Claus?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u228	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u229	Thank you. Dear friends, today has been an unforgivable day. But despite all our emotions, we still live together in this country according to the rules that we all set together. Mr. President, I was the first journalist ever to be charged with a crime. Then it was a criminalized article. It was President Kravchuk. There was a loud case, then it was closed. Now that I'm looking at Sophia Fedina's case and everything that's going on, I want to look to you personally. Sophia Fedina, honestly, wasn't going to kill you. Every lawyer will tell you that if there is a threat to murder, there should be a mechanism to put this threat into practice or at least some evidence of it. Sophia Fedina gave her opinion. Someone may agree with the validity or invalidity of such words, whether they are a subject or not, but it is a question of freedom of speech. It's not a matter of criminal persecution of a deputy, the first deputy after the removal of the MP's immunity here in the hall. I'm just asking you to take your application and say, close this case and not be ashamed of the whole world. This will be honest and human. That's what anyone would do. Second question to Mrs. Vendiktova. Dear Mrs. Vendiktova, my family and I have come to see you at the D.B.I.'s office to discuss the status of the investigation and the appointment of your deputy, who was Janukovic's attorney. Sadly, neither we nor the members of these families were even allowed outside the D.B.I. What would a normal officer do? You have deputies, maybe you weren't there. They would have taken into a separate room, they would have taken turns, they would have listened. That would be human and normal. Because the aggression that is in our society and between us is very often caused by the lack of our wisdom and the inability to hear each other. So I want to go back to everyone in the room, to most of them who are banging and shouting. Listen, tomorrow you'll be in this situation. And I wouldn't want you to be in it. To Mr. President, who is President today, there will be no tomorrow, and he may be in such a situation. And by the way, your behavior, your humanity, your humanity is being looked at by the whole world and by all the citizens of our country. Let's live a normal life and respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time spent on this issue of order is exhausted. I would like to thank President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Let us turn to the following issues of the agenda of the day’s extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. I wish for success and for work, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u231	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question. I'm going to ask you to stay put right now, because we need to vote in favour of putting it into the agenda. And I'm going to ask the national MPs not to break up. We do. Kola, you're also a national MP. So we're going to consider draft Law No. 3003 on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2020 to participate in multinational education. In order to include this bill in the agenda, we must vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to take your seats, which is why we need 226 votes. I'm asking you to take your seats. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision to admit the military forces of other States to Ukraine in 2020 for participation in multinational training (project registration number 3003). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[21:09:06]] For 257 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this issue under a reduced procedure. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. [[Noise Nodes]] I get it, but first, it's short. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a reduced procedure for dealing with this issue. Please support and vote. [[21:09:37]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I hear there's an offer -- no discussion, but I have a request. We have a committee decision to make as a whole. I'll put it in a row: first, on the basis, then on the whole. It won't. Let's take it as a base first. I bet. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote on the ground. Well, one second, I'll put it on the ground first. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm starting to accept this project as the basis for the registration number of Project 3003. Wait a second. What do you want? Do you want to talk about it? Okay. Dear colleagues, you want a discussion, I'll give you a discussion. Dear colleagues, I cannot help but grant such a request. Please sign up: two in, two in. But write down only those who really want to speak out on this issue, which we could vote without. Please. I beg of you, the People's Deputy of Krivoshiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u232	Please support without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u233	Thank you. Great. Dear colleagues, the next National Deputy, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u234	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u235	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u236	Thank you for the loud applause of some of your fellow servants. Colleagues, it's not, you know, what you want, and it's a requirement for the Presidium to abide by the Rules, which requires that if any of the MPs or factions want to discuss it, we should discuss this bill. Today he was to be presented by the Secretary of Defense of the Gardener, who was not even warned that he would be released today. He came here to report this law. But the "ministers" and President Zelensky didn't even let their minister know that he would be released today. Our question. Where is Minister Taran who was to present this bill today? Where's the profile committee that can now tell us what's going on? And most importantly, this is a very important bill that the Supreme Council of Ukraine was due to adopt in December. And when you're all yelling about the turbine, it's actually a silly thing to do when you first put those bills that we don't really need in the country, and the ones we need in order to get our troops motivated to learn with NATO partners, you leave it to March.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u237	Dear Irina Volodymyrically, since the address was for the presidency, I just want to let you know that you're the only one who said that you wanted to talk about it, that question was immediately put to discussion. The second question. The rapporteur for this bill is Deputy Defence Minister Polishchuk Aleksandr Mikolaiovich, who is in the hall. And so, please, let's not have a chat, but since we're on our way, we're on our way to what you wanted to talk about, you're talking about. Thank you, let's move on. Don't run this place. Let's move on. Please, the next Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u238	Our faction does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u239	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. And Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u240	The Fatherland faction supports this law so that there will be as little loss as possible in our Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u241	Thank you. State position, Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, since we have discussed this issue, I am voting. Please take your seats. I am voting on the basis of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2020 for participation in multinational education (project registration number 3003). Please support and vote. [[21:14:21]] For-286 Decision taken. In line with the Committee's conclusion, I am adopting an entire bill of registration number 3003: the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2020 to participate in multinational education. Please support and vote. [[21:14:55]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Law on Change to Chapter VI of the Act on National Security of Ukraine on the Act on National Security of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (from 05.02.2020) No01-01/127 was issued on 06.02.2020, the application of the Committee of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the type and individual types of troops (force) (from 05.02.2020), the registration number 3015. Dear colleagues, the same procedure. I'm going to ask you, we need 226 votes to put it in the agenda. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[21:16:26]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we also need to vote 150 in favour of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support and vote on Bill 3015 on a reduced procedure. [[21:16:56]] For 257 Decision taken. Do you insist on discussing it? There's an offer to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, all those who wish, all those who wish. Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u242	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u243	Please report to Zabrodsky Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u244	Dear colleagues, although the time is quite late, but the next meeting must take place, as they say, behind all canons, without any disturbance. So let's keep working. Regarding the law that is proposed for consideration. We all know that during the last year and even more in the General Staff, a colossal work has been done with regard to the introduction of new reorganization structures with the aim of maximizing the approach of our Armed Forces to the standards of the armies of the leading countries of the world. You know that an important drafting of the law was introduced to separate the posts of Chief of Staff and Chief of Staff from the Armed Forces Command from January 1, the following 2021. But given that changes are taking place quickly and urgently, it was suggested that the same changes should be made as quickly as possible to the concern of the General Staff in close collaboration with the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee. This is the end of this month, March 2020. Please support this law. And I'm saying that our faction will definitely support it. This is another step towards NATO, another step forward for our Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u245	Thank you. The title of Darius Artemisna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u246	I ask you to support this bill without discussion and stop doing empty talk and a self-piarus on account of the time of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u247	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u248	Thank you. Our faction does not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u249	Thank you. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u250	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Defense issues cannot be or should not be a self - pianist. That's the first one. The other one. The Fatherland faction points out that there are no changes proposed by the Presidential faction to other laws that really have to develop and divide powers, and above all to strengthen the governance, security and security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. That's why, in principle, in support of the reinforcement of the defence of the Armed Forces, we point out that experts have to work on this bill. One. The other one. Make changes to other laws, including the state of war in our country, and defend the country professionally and in accordance with NATO's best standards, with clear legal definitions, especially by ensuring that the Chief of Staff and the Chief of Staff are given a clear mandate. Thank you. Let's take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u251	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I have a question. See, the committee suggests that the committee also be based on the Committee’s proposals. I'll put it on the ground, after that, in general. Okay? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Final and Transitional Provisions Act of Ukraine on National Security of Ukraine to take effect with regard to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, species and individual types of troops (forces). Please support and vote. Registration 3015. [[21:21:29]] For 293 Dear colleagues. To 293. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a problem. If we don't vote now, there will be problems again. Let's vote. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in general with the necessary proposals of the committee. With the exception of the Committee's proposals, the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian National Security Act on the taking effect of the provisions concerning the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, species and individual types of troops (force) (registration No. 3015). Please support and vote. I'll send it to you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. [[21:22:22]] For 292 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the strengthening of maritime safety and security of Ukraine (registration No. 0025). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that this bill be incorporated into the agenda of the day's extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[21:23:29]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[21:23:51]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Reported by Deputy Minister of Interior of Goncharov Sergey Mihajlovich. Minister, reports Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Borisovich Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u252	Dear National Deputies! Today, we are presenting a large and extremely important project to strengthen maritime protection and border protection. Look at the screen. What is the Ukrainian maritime border is 1 thousand 448 kilometres or 765 nautical miles of the Ukrainian state border: 509 by the Black Sea, 132 by the Azova Sea, Kerchen Strait, 26 by Kerchen, and 98 miles by the border along the Danube River. The area of the exclusive (sea) economic zone is 21,000 square miles. After the annexation of Crimea, 413 miles of sea borders were taken to a temporarily uncontrollable territory. We are surrounded by powerful fleets and coast guard units in Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia and Moldova, and the enemy fleet of the Russian Federation. Every day, marine units in these waters provide protection for the state border on water, search and rescue operations, and counter the enemy DDR. After the annexation of Crimea, 19 of our overseas ships and boats, as well as ship bases, remained on the occupied peninsula. As the maritime area of the Ukrainian border is today the most vulnerable, we need increased mobility on the water. Unfortunately, out of a total of 69 ships and boats, 80 percent are technically and morally outdated, some of them are much older than me. Support not only reduces the readiness of units through numerous repairs but distracts inadequately high human and financial resources. So today I'm proposing a big project signed by the Agreement between the French Republic and the Republic of Ukraine at the level of governments, where we're investing credit resources below 2.5 percent of the annual euro in order to rebuild 20 boats. One out of five of us will be built in the city of Mikolai, so the location will be. Then in the city of Mikolai, we will be able to build domestic production boats by 100 percent. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u253	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union of Klimpush. Mesenceva, deputy, Mezenceva Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u254	Congratulations, fellows! Congratulations, distinguished voters! I understand that everyone is very tired, but it's a matter of security and defense of our state. Odessa, Mariupol, Berdjansk, Ishmael, Kilia — these are the cities where 20 modern marine safety and security boats with special data transmissions can appear and equipped with a means of reporting over-water conditions and data transmission accordingly. In this way, they can appear at the expense of the treasury loan to the Department of Institutional Activities of the French Republic. It is to be noted that, according to an article in the framework contract for the acquisition of French goods, jobs and services, at a rate of at least 50 percent, the same rate will be introduced for the purchase of Ukrainian goods and services accordingly. This is based on the terms of the agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I also want to point out that there have been warnings on the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on European Integration. But we were able to compromise after discussing this with the Ministry of Finance. So first there's going to be a ratification of the framework agreement that you could get acquainted with, and that's what's going to unlock the start of the project and the first contribution that's also agreed with Minfin. Yes, indeed, it will change and exert pressure on Ukraine's budget 2020, but it is already agreed with the Ministry of Finance. That is why the Committee on European Integration proposes that it decide to recommend this to the Supreme Council as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr. Head, and I ask my colleagues to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u255	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Write down those who wish to discuss the matter for statements by MPs and groups. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u256	Yes. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, political faction of "Slut of the People". Dear colleagues, you and I are obliged to strengthen our maritime boundaries. To this day, unfortunately, we do not have modern marine technology at sea, so I think we should support our State Border Service to be able to face external challenges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u257	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u258	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u259	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u260	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. First of all, it is an open homage on the part of colleagues to speak, to call a statement by the National MP in discussing a bill a political self-piarator at the expense of the time of the Supreme Council. I hope a fellow servant apologizes for this assumption. As far as this bill is concerned. It's a bill. This bill is not being negotiated by the government. In fact, Ukraine’s government budget does not have the expected additional funds needed to service this government debt. And we don't know with you how much our government debt is going to go up. And coming out of today's economic situation, like me, we just can't make such a mindless decision. That's the first one. And certainly, "European solidarity" is a political force that has worked and worked all the time, supporting any strengthening of our country's resilience. And we certainly understand that our capabilities of the Navy must first be strengthened. So we think that the primary and priority needs in the boats are in the Ukrainian Navy, not in the State Border Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u261	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u262	Thank you. Please put the question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u263	Thank you very much for your kind offer. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the strengthening of maritime security and the protection of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[21:32:06]] For 261 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 12, "For the Future" – 9, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 10, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, next question. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (Registration No. 2500). Reported by Janchenko Galina Igorovna, deputy head of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee. Let's go to the right. 16 edits, Minko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Kulinich. Dear colleagues, what kind of papers will you insist on? Fries came along. Don't you insist on anything? So maybe you'll take a seat. Wait, there's two confirmation checks. Igor Pavlovich Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u264	Dear colleagues, the number 175 of the national MP Tarasenko and the number 176 of the national deputy of Krasnosilski. These amendments apply to article 5 of the Notaryate Act of Ukraine. Article 5, these are the obligations of the notary who is delegated to him by the State. And somehow there was a need to add the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, which the notary should abide by. Although it is clearly written that notaryus adheres to all laws, not specific ones. So I'd like to put these two amendments 175 and 176 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u265	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u266	The committee took these amendments into account. But taking into account the additional conclusions of Minustu, in principle, Mr. Fries is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-04-m1.u267	Mr. Tarasenko, don't you insist? For confirmation. Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm the number 175 of Tarasenko. Please identify and vote. [[21:34:40]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And the number 176 is the same. Redsoil is not available, but it also confirmed that it does not insist on this. Oh, there is. I'm sorry. Anastasia Olegovna, you don't insist on 176, do you? That's why I'm putting her on the stand. It was counted by the committee, but now we're betting on confirmation. Please identify and vote. [[21:35:20]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and after the vote, there will be more announcements. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (registration No. 2500). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[21:36:12]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for the work that everyone has done, but I would not like to be the person who brings bad news. However, in response to the requirement of 152 Ukrainian national deputies to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 18 hours, 30 minutes, on March 5, 2020, to consider expressing distrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Attorney General Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgiyovich. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide for the preparation and holding of the extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 5. Dear colleagues, tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. – the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all. The question is in order of the day. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
