ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Ready? I don't see Sergei Vlasenko. But I remind everyone that registration takes place, as always, with a green button, the first one on the left. Ready? Please register. [[10:08:13]] There are 229 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to give an address to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups on proposals, statements and messages. Please sign up for the performances by the MPs. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Stefani's? Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, it's been almost a year since we've all heard the abbreviation SOVID-19. During that time, more than 1.5 million people died in the world, and over 70 million died. And this, colleagues, is a real disease that takes people's lives. Some say: Let us all get over it. If all of us, colleagues, get sick, this disease will take the lives of 700,000 people. It's a real disaster. We know that today the world has already begun vaccination from SOVID-19. And this is the only way to stop the effects of this disease on all countries of the world. And we see that today in Ukraine this process is not even at zero. We don't know exactly when the vaccine will come. We don't know how many vaccines the state buys for the money that's been allocated. But most importantly, we don't see the government preparing for this process. We've calculated how many people we need to inoculate to cover our priority groups, and these are our military, these are our medics, these are older people, these are your parents. So this is 20 million people. Do you have any idea how much effort it takes to inoculate such an enormous number of people? We see our government preparing for the COVID-19 pandemic: failed testing, failed preparation of hospitals. We're not going to let that happen with vaccination. So the Voice faction has prepared a detailed plan and recommendations for the government so that we don't fail this task, because this task is one of the most important. Yesterday we presented our recommendations, and today we're going to register the ruling, and I'm asking everyone to join in signing it, on a detailed plan by the government to prepare for the mass vaccination of COVID-19. It includes, firstly, the approval at the national level of such a plan, the approval of regional detailed plans, as will be the case. Colleagues, we don't know how many medical personnel we have today can inoculate people, 20 million people. So we're going to demand assessments of the entire infrastructure, the number of medical personnel and the involvement of additional staff. The communication campaign must be developed at the highest level of the state in order to counter fairies and vaccination manipulations. And the last. 2.6 billion dollars is not enough to provoke even priority groups from COVID-19. This small amount of money put on the vaccine in the budget will not give us that opportunity. So we're going to demand an increase in the state budget not only for the purchase of vaccines, but also for other satellites: needles and syringes, doctors' protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u3	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u4	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You remember when I stood here on the rostrum and said that the FOP protests would not end, I said that they would only increase by the number and number of entrepreneurs who were outraged by the Supreme Council's decision on the so-called suspension of fiscalization. I don't think that the Nazi border, the police, will keep us from people. Because always those who come out for the truth, those who go out for their own lives always win. You know, I've got this kind of déjà vu. I remember a party of authorities here in 2013 going to the Parliamentary Hall, doing their work, planning the future for a life where the New Year’s rest would go, and then there was Midan, and remember how it ended. So I now call upon all parliamentary factions to consult with entrepreneurs, especially the "Serial of the People" factions, on the adoption of Bills 3852-1, 3853-2, 3993, that's what entrepreneurs require. And I'm talking to entrepreneurs now. Do not give in to these dirty manipulations of old politicians who are trying to use you as a tool to achieve their political goals. Because once you've made the political demands of those you've recently mentioned in your video blogs, it's going to cause communication to stop, you're going to stop being entrepreneurs, and you're going to become politicians. So I urge all of us, the entire people of Ukraine, entrepreneurs, parliamentarians, the government to be wise, to do everything not to accumulate this negativity and burst, to do everything not to escalate this situation and the conflict that is now under the walls of the Supreme Council is just unfolding. That's why I'm asking the profile committee to come under the walls of the Supreme Council, the Tax Committee, and to communicate with entrepreneurs, to continue consultations. Because if this does not happen today, it may end with blood. And last time, two entrepreneurs were detained. Today, radical organizations and parties have expressed their support for this protest. Let's not let that happen. Let us be wise and make decisions in the interests of the Ukrainian people and tax payers that keep us all: government, parliament, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u5	Tchaikovsky John Adamovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we have our last parliamentary week, and we, you see, meet again the representatives of microbusiness, small business, so we're doing something wrong. It seems to me that a parliamentarian should use his activity in the same way as a doctor, the "no harm" formula. And I think what we've literally just heard from this rostrum by a representative of the majority of the "Serve of the People" is what's called cognitive dissonance. Friends, we're representatives of different factions and groups, except the Servant of the People, for several months we've been talking about the fact that we still don't solve the problem for the FOPs. They're still coming to us because they're up on this tax haven not to delay the entry of the RRO. And I think today we should talk about what we should go to entrepreneurs, the "servants" are meant to hear their demands and put to a vote, to the question of 3853-1 and 3853-2, where we are co-authors, this is sacrilegiousness and this hypocrisy in front of those people who are standing there today in front of the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Friends, let's not be happy, I'm talking to the majority that we've done God's grace in the Christmas tree. We didn't make it. What, by delaying the wage raises in the teachers' budget project, we're refusing to go abroad, and they're learning language faster than other many categories of people in Ukraine, a foreign language. What do we think a country will survive without a doctor and an educator? No, she won't make it. Just as he can't survive without a living and small and medium-sized business. By going into the pockets of local budgets, as we've done with the latest bills on supporting entrepreneurship, with the right bills, but we've gone into the local budgets. Do we think rural communities will survive? No, it's not. By closing down the institutions of culture, education, and medicine, they do not abstain from swimming. We accept this budget, the draft budget, not for the Prime Minister or the oligarchs, we accept it for the common people, for the future of this country. And that's why we want this budget project to be free of shullerism, especially for local communities, rural communities. And I'm also talking about excise, and I'm talking about land tax from the Crucifixion and other subsidies that should go directly to places. And we would like us, friends, to have authority that will empathize with the country no less than it does for itself. I mean, it's only in these circumstances that our MPs will vote in favour of this draft budget today in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u7	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u8	The Fatherland faction sees three key things that rely on Parliament, for the most part, on opposition this week. First. This is the income part of the budget. Regrettably, the income part of the budget is formed by trying to introduce bills that allow for the failure to pay taxes to those in offshore jurisdictions. Look at the corresponding bill that stands today. This is an attempt to continue collecting taxes at the expense of FOPs. Take a look at the postponing position. And there's absolutely no government proposal that would allow for a ultimately small and small business to start working. The second part is budget expenditure. But these expenses cannot be determined without the key parameters of this budget and the Codex Budget. Option one. Are we burying local budgets or not? Judging from what took place prior to yesterday's meeting of the Budget Committee, the excise minus from local budgets, the tax from the railway minus from local budgets, and only yesterday's meeting of the Budget Committee returned these two key positions, which the Fatherland faction insisted on, to the bosom of the budget. In doing so, we are well aware of the collapse of the health system, which is underfunded by nearly 40 billion dollars and the collapse of the education system, which is underfunded by almost 15 billion dollars. For the Fatherland faction, these two positions are definitive. I am calling on Parliament and the heads of all factions to take an urgent recess in order to proceed now in the key positions of the Code of Budget and Budget, and to determine in which final version, with the invitation of the Prime Minister, the budget is put to the vote in Parliament. If local budgets at least managed to resolve the issue, health and education and science remained open. Our faction would like to understand whether our proposal to finance the fight against COVID is taken into account, where it is possible to allocate adequate funds for health care, in addition to doctors, younger medical personnel, and in addition to teachers and preschool workers who are at an exact advanced level. I think these are the key prerequisites that the country will enter next year and what position "Paternity" will be on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u9	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we have certainly all seen protests by the physical persons who are entrepreneurs. The representative of the authorities called for a dialogue. So last week, we had a conversation and we registered a bill, the deputies of our faction, No. 4490. The bill applies to natural persons who are entrepreneurs, and that's where their demands are: raising the amount of income, cancelling, not deferral, but cancelling the registers, and most importantly, the books on income accounting, they asked them, they're in this bill. So let's also look at 4,490. This time. But worst of all, and what applies to all citizens of Ukraine. The Ukrainians received payments, payments with new record rates. And actually, I want to tell you that, in general, with these tariffs, Ukraine has become completely uninhabitable over the last seven years. What am I talking about? First. That's because the price of gas went up 13.4 times in seven years. Think about it, more than 13 times. It was 725 in the 13th year, now it's 9,000 723 bracelets. The heating tariff increased in seven years by 13.2 times, cold and hot water -- 6 times, electricity -- more than 6 times. All these things have led us to have an odd rise in both tariffs and income. The nominal has grown, it's the minimum wage, if four times, the minimum pension is 1.8 times. These things, when they happen, lead to a huge increase in debt for residential services. It's grown almost five times, from 12 billion to 56 billion dollars. These are high figures that today prevent Ukrainians from surviving. So this whole package of measures shows, first of all, that tariff policy needs to be reviewed. The Opposition Platform for Life calls for, first, the use of purely economic instruments to adjust the price of gas for the population. A country that extracts 15 billion cubic feet [15 billion cubic m] of gas cannot sell its own gas to the population by 9.7 dollars, not by 2.5 bracelets. It can't be when the import gas has to be 4.5, we have to get it 9.7 and so on, and so on. We have to give up the schematic pseudo-vertical reverse from the German Düsseldorf, because all of these things lead to Ukrainians paying more than their income levels in seven years. And this is another requirement that we must have a fixed actual amount of municipal payments in the amount of one household’s income. Please take this into account in the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u11	Shahova Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, this is the last week of Parliament's work this year. And each of you knows that in the new year, you have to enter without debt. But the state owed the Ukrainians a lot of money, both in front of miners and doctors, in front of teachers and in front of communities. The "Trust" MP requires and appeals to every parliamentarian to support the 4100-d Budget Code and leave it behind, and to make the excise rulings that should remain in place in the communities. This is the best reform that has taken place over the years. And we don't have to destroy decentralization reform today. Secondly, I am grateful to you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for putting into order the daily Bill 4467 on the special order of Donbas. This is the most important and most difficult situation in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. People today need attention. We must stay in the mine format, even though he has long survived. We have to go back to the Budapest Memorandum. But unfortunately, there's only one week left. I ask every parliamentarian to support this bill so that it will still be possible to conduct diplomatic, peaceful negotiations on the conclusion of today's military state. I wish the governors, the heads of the military and civilian administrations didn't steal the money on the spot, and yet there were frauds. But that's next year. Third. Today, we demand that a daily bill of 4248 be put into order, which applies to every Ukrainian gas meter. Gas costs from 1 January to 80 percent, tariffs cost 100 percent, and the basket cost 100 percent a year! And today the counters will be paid for every Ukrainian! That is why we need to put the bill on the agenda today and vote for it as well. Well, finally. This is a constitutional crisis that has arisen both inside and outside our country. The two bills 4470 and 4471, which are in the order of the day, must also be voted out of this predicament. Is there no other question in our country today, what is the constitutional crisis that allows the enemy today to be bullied in his television sets and today propaganda against the Ukrainian people? Therefore, all four bills must be supported and voted. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u13	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians, today the "State Bureau of Repression" is about to file charges against Tetjana Blackwall for participating in the Dignity Revolution. The order of Janukovich and the Kremlin rematches completely fabricated the case. Why are they doing this? To discredit the D.B.R. with the hands of the D.B.I., to underestimate this victory of the Ukrainian people and the invention of the Heroes of Heaven to the hundreds. Along with Zelensky on his lie, the Anti-Maidan returned to power. I'll remind you that Zelensky's regime has been holding Andrew Antonenko's prison for a year without any evidence. In fact, he was robbed of a year of his life simply because Greensky had publicly appointed Riffmaster guilty. This is another proof of the creation of the Green Repressive State by the example of Yanukovic. And to close the mouth to the opposition media, who are not afraid to talk about such things, they're putting a daily disgraceful bill of 4107, which will allow the untouched Nacradi to "temper" TV channels without leaving the office. You don't have the D.B.I. Who's gonna blow the "Primary" TV? That's a pretty eloquent background for the budget they're going to vote here today. The D.B.I. wants to add a billion dollars to their payload, plus 2 billion dollars to their procurator, they're going to spend more than 125 billion dollars on muscle. Isn't that the budget for building a repressive state? They don't add money to the army, they don't have enough money to raise teachers' salaries, social support, subsidies. They take billions of dollars out of culture, education, and they steal money from communities that they have received as a result of decentralization. The tip of cynicism is to take 8.5 billion from the Pension Fund. I wonder who in this room will raise their hand to take the money from the pensioners and vote for it today? What to talk about when, in conditions of a pandemic in power, outside the priority of raising the wages of health workers, insurance for doctors from COVID, and providing for hospitals with oxygen. Civilised countries are already running or they're about to start doing free vaccinations for citizens, and we have the Greensky government, losing the chance of mass testing, now they're going to lose their chance of mass vaccination. There's almost no money in the budget for this. If you don't have enough money for vaccines, just take the 50 billion out of the roads you've planned on bribes and dumping, and leave 80 instead of 130, which will be enough to complete the building. Even in these difficult circumstances, however, the Office of the President was not forgotten. Zelenski’s anchors and pitches are up 40 percent and will amount to a record 1 billion 266 million dollars. Here's the price of a simple boy's bike. The priorities of the government for the following year do not give any reason to expect the development of the state and the worth of the lives of the Ukrainians. When you promised the end of the poverty era, you had to make it clear that instead you would plunge the country into an era of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will move on to the day - to - day issues. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3050a-13). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:34:35]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, can we not then repeat David Georgiyovich’s statement, however, so that all the national deputies can come into the hall and prepare for the vote? This is a procedural decision, can we put it again, but are we all ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, once again, the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please prepare for the vote. May I have a vote, please? We vote on the basis as a whole. There's a 3050-a-13 bill coming up again. Please vote. [[10:35:49]] For 229 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u17	Thank you, Olena Constantine. Let's move on to the first question of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on ensuring the independence of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:36:35]] For 225 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u18	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, to your attention, Bill 4107, which regulates the independence of the National Council on Television and Radio. This is very important because it's the main regulator in the media space, the constitutional authority that's involved in information security. Moreover, quarantine restrictions proved to be far longer than we could have anticipated in the spring of this year. Therefore, it is now important to unlock the regulator’s work with regard to quarantine. The board of directors should work — running competitions, licensing, and carrying out other tasks. We propose article 5 of the National Council of Ukraine Act on Television and Broadcasting, which regulates the order of appointment of members of the Nacradia, to present in a new edition a clearly written algorithm for the appointment of members of the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, in the original version of the draft law to depoliticize the selection of candidates, we propose to remove from the list of entities the right to apply for membership of the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the parliamentary factions and groups and to grant such a right exclusively to public associations and creative associations. However, as the author of the bill and a substitute for the Humanities and Information Policy Committee, I would like to point out that after we have discussed with other factions and groups before the second reading, we will also introduce rights and leave this right to MP factions and groups to ensure consensus in the vote. We will also improve the voting procedure for candidates in the hall. We also provide for restrictions on the holding of competitions to replace the vacant seat of members of the National Council within 85 days so that the body is permanently viable. For the selection of candidates for the National Council, article 6 provides for the establishment of a competitive commission, with the aim of discussing the proposed candidates and submitting a corresponding submission to the President of Ukraine on each nomination with conclusions and recommendations. It also needs to be improved so that the principle of independence of the controller is respected directly. Moreover, the quarantine situation requires a review of some of the provisional legislation, such as the provisions of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, in order to standardize the conduct of non-scheduled exit checks. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy at its meeting on 11 November analysed the novels and concluded that the proposed changes were well founded, but needed some further development of the novel on the implementation of gender principles in the process of forming the National Council (part of the sixth article 5 of the draft), the proposed reporting order of the Nakradya to the assigned entities, the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the decision-making on the results of the review of the report, as well as the proposed changes in the remuneration of workers of the apparatus. In order to ensure the full functioning of the regulator, to exercise the powers to license television broadcasting, the committee supports the removal of certain legislation that temporarily suspended the announcement and the holding of competitions for periods of quarantine. On the basis of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the adoption of Bill 4107 as a basis. Please support, this is about the nation's information security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, please pass on the word of Vátrovitch Volodymyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u21	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In this bill, of course, there are good innovations in the negotiations for members of the Nacrad to be selected by competitive procedure in order for professionals to be appointed. We can only welcome this approach, especially now that in the present Nakrad 5 out of 8 members of Nakrada are either out of 95 blocks or out of channel 1+1, that is, the structures of the Cologne or Zelensky. Sadly, though, the bill also contains a number of unacceptable standards. First of all, this is a batch vote for all the members of the Nakrad. So the MPs want to deprive you of the right to support a worthy candidate and not support an unworthy candidate. Secondly, not only is it kept, but it also makes it even more difficult for the President and Parliament to resign the entire Nacrada composition by simply declaring its report unsatisfying. It is designed as an independent body, and it is evident that such a norm robs it of its independence. Thirdly, the law prescribes competitive procedures not only for members of the Parliament, but also for the President. This is contrary to the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Although, of course, it would be good for the President to re-elect his candidates for the competition, not according to preferences or belonging to the 95th quarter. And fourthly, the project anchors the Nakrad too much arbitrary possibilities for testing licenses. We can see how Nakrad is already abusing these powers that he now has. Instead of effectively resisting Russian propaganda by ordering political persecution of Direct, espresso and other independent media that criticise the Green regime. We really need an independent National Council, independent of both President Zelensky and those oligarchs who support him. Therefore, "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u23	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u24	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know very well who worked in the authorities or who, in principle, cares for information security, how important the regulatory and supervisory body is the National Council, and what principle it plays in the field of television and the media market. Because it is up to them, and it is up to them to spread, including channels of speech. And of course, those living in border areas and areas feel very strongly about the widespread or far-off presence of channels in Ukrainian territory, especially near the border or near the line of delimitation. Let's be honest that far from successful Ukrainian television we see the situation today in the east, especially in Lugansk and Donetsk region, when we can actually see more of the so-called republic channels than Ukrainian television. And, unfortunately, this is exactly the failure of Nakrad's work. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, the law is quite interesting and necessary and regulates many of the things you have submitted in previous legislation and correct innovations in the selection procedures themselves. But there's a note in the Voice faction. The first is, of course, a batch vote. We know very well that you can put it in a bag and that you can see the hall and how it can vote. That's why we're in favour of a rating roll vote that needs to come back and be what it was in the previous years. Next thing you know, the so-called depoliticization. We are firmly opposed to the possibility of putting forward our candidacy with a community or creative community, because you understand where the dog is trapped, and creative associations are actually a shell of an office that in three years will be injecting you with the so-called "Ukrainian Choice" in Nacradu, which will then report on the civil conflict and the absence of Russian troops in the east of Ukraine. That's why we're definitely against it. If these moments are removed, the Voice faction will be ready to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u25	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction doesn't support this bill, because we can't understand why we're taking this initiative right now. What prevents us from making a decision right now and rotating our representative on the National Council for Television and Radio? For over a year, we have been waiting for this decision. Probably what this council is doing today, because that's not what you can say, and that's why you're satisfied with the work of the Nacra. So when Nakrad was persecuting "1+1," it was the pressure on freedom of speech, and when the Nakrad is quarantined, which, by the way, by December 31st today, requires channel checks just because there are politicians out there who disagree with and criticize the position of power, and so it coincided that the position of these politicians coincides with the vision of the vast majority of the Ukrainian people. That's why we see in this bill a desire to increase control and pressure on the Nacradu rather than make it rotate in the order established by law. We find such actions unseemly with our Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself. We're done with the Supreme Council of Servants of the People. So from the point of view of the interests of our citizens and the protection of their rights to receive information, we believe that this law is one that will reduce the constitutional rights of our citizens and push for freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, now, I see you speak for the future, speak for "Trust." Will anyone else insist on the performances? No, I can see that. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After that, once, I see. We'll have a vote in four minutes, invite the people's deputies to the hall in three. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. The bill proposes to amend legislation that primarily seeks to strengthen the independence of the National Council on Television and Radio. It should be noted that the document also provides that the appointment to the National Council should take into account gender equality. That is, if a candidate or a candidate takes the same number of points in the rating, then the position is given to the same person whose representatives are smaller. Also important is the proposal to change the standards that establish additional candidates for the National Council. Not only from MPs or all - Ukrainian media associations, but also from public organizations, and from creative networks in the field of television, can candidates present candidates. This will ensure that the process is even more transparent and unattractive. In addition, the bill more than doubles the salaries of members of the National Council. So the trust MP group will support this bill, but only on the first reading. We note that until the second reading, we need to reconcile all the discussion points that journalists have in the part that they fear so that there is no influence of the authorities on the appointment of the members of the Nacra. That's why you and I need to work out a bill that will have both the authorities and the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u29	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to inform you of the position of the Group for the Future that we will support this bill. And what we think of as being one of the first, is that the national MPs have the opportunity and they want to pay attention to information security issues, because Nacrad, as a regulator of television and radio, is also responsible for information security. Unfortunately, we see that up to 40 percent of the population in Ukraine, including residents of border areas: Volin, Chernigovishte, Kharkishte, Hersonian and many others do not receive television and radio services. Therefore, we demand that Nazrad fulfill her responsibilities in full and take care of all the Ukrainians, providing them with a Ukrainian television and radio. Another aspect. We support the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u31	Wait a minute. Yes, thank you. Let's go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the independence of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting (registration No. 4107). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:52:45.]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u32	Dear friends, we often fail to see how normal societies turn into savages. This is the previous vote when you killed an independent regulator and made a dictatorship and allowed the channels to be closed, one of the steps. You know, all the societies were silent when you imprisoned Gorin, Crnovola, Miroslav Marinovich, Stus, and some are happy about it. Today, the indictment will be given to Auntie Blackwall. I remember Tetjana as a journalist on the Left Bank, and I remember when she handcuffed herself to the rails during the "Ukraine Without Couchma" campaign. I remember, at the headquarters of the Dignity Revolution, when people died in her arms, and she did not kill people, but she saved them. I remember how happy I was when she found Janukovich’s other treasures stolen from the Ukrainians. I remember trying to kill her. I remember being chased by a car. I remember how the D.B.I. got revenge on her right now. And we all remember. Today, Aunty Blackwall is serving a murder charge. Apparently, Tetjana has never been killed, and we all understand that. And which one of us goes under the D.B.I. today to stop it? No, we're going to put our eyes down, we're going to follow the socioconomy to the Prime Minister, we're going to think about how to do the budget, how to steal it in this poor, miserable country last time, in doctors and in patients with the coronavirus. We don't see how we're turning from normal society into savages under this government of Zelensky. I urge us all to stop. Let's come to the D.B.I. today and support Tetian. Because it's not the support of Tetjana, it's the support of normal human values, it's the support of self-esteem, it's the support of every Ukrainian who wants to live in Europe, not to rot in a sold-out post-Radians society, as we've been going on lately. We tried to get out of it on Maidan, and now we don't see us going down into the swamp again. Friends, you've been to Maidan, all the factions. Only now has this disgraceful Nacradu been voted on by this law. It is only today that the eyes are silent and dull. Let's raise our heads and go to the D.B.I. at 3 p.m. in the Forest of Ukraine, 26. Thank you. Let's stop this disgusting creeping we don't know where! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u34	Dear Ukrainians! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Today in this Parliament, the President's team proposes to continue the so-called Law on the Special Status of the Donetsk and Luhansk Region for another year. I want to explain to all the Ukrainians what this means to our country. This means cementing the non-alternativeness of the Minsk Accords. Who advocates the non-alternativeness of the Minsk Accords? Putin. And that's a fact. Listen to his speech, hear the position of an aggressor of the Russian Federation on all international venues. And the fifth pillar of the Kremlin in this Parliament also supports the unattractiveness of the Minsk Accords. You know, even President Zelensky said this year that we are hostages of the Minsk Accords, that we have to get out of this. But instead of plan B, instead of an alternative, he's still holding the whole country hostage. I also want to explain to all the Ukrainians why the Voice faction and I are going to vote against this law. Because he's talking about amnesty warriors, those who killed our warriors will be released now. Because this is a special status with essentially Federation rights for these two areas. Because it's a special feature and protection of purely Russian language, and we can see that it's not exactly that language that's depressing there. Because it is the local national police and because it is a special feature of the appointment of judges and prosecutors. Is that Ukrainian interest in the East? Not exactly. It's been a year since the meeting in Normandy. And President Zelensky wanted to expand it by joining the allies of Britain and the United States. But what did our President do? To reduce this coalition and to suppress the support of even Germany and France and to translate everything into the Tripartite Contact Group. And you know who calls the tripartite contact group "trilateral"? Ukrainian side. And you know what they call this Russian aggressor group? The contact group, because there they see LNR and DNR as negotiators. Dear colleagues, what happened this year, the cementing of the already dead Minsk treaties, is something that we as the Voice faction do not agree with. This is not acceptable to the whole country — amnesty, special status of Russian and essentially the federalization of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. We're demanding an alternative to the Minsk Accords, and the Voice faction and I have proposed a plan, and we've created a TSC. Let's finally work, not cement the dead Minsk Accords, it's not in our country's best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u35	The next issue is the bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. Please prepare for the vote. We need to put this issue in the agenda. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for the inclusion of registration number 4467 in the agenda of the bill. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:01:13]] For-286 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary session on 15 December 2020, Bill No. 4467. Please support and vote. [[11:01:47]] For 292 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session on bill number 4467. Please support and vote. [[11:02:21]] For 296 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:02:42]] For 274 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend. Please give four minutes from both the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, we resume the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region until December 31, 2021. This is, at first glance, a formal decision and a formal step, but it is very necessary for us to continue the peace process and the peace talks both in the form of a Tripartite Contact Group, and now, I hope, one of the participants in the Tripartite Contact Group, Mr. Kostin, will speak from our faction in support of this law and will share what is happening on the ground of this negotiating area as well as in the form of the Normandom Quartet. This is the result of a systematic sequential approach to negotiations, and we have to take this step, even though it's essentially formal. At the same time, with the opportunity and discussion of this law, I would like to say that this year was important for the peace process, a lot happened, there was a long-awaited meeting of the Normandy Four, which was actually blocked for four years, the activity, the reformed and updated approach and the work of the Tripartite Contact Group, it is expanded, it is composed of representatives of the Supreme Council committees. And in the end, most importantly, perhaps the fact that a fairly long time is to reduce fire and lose people, the loss of our fighters on the front is much smaller than almost six months. It's one of those big achievements. There is also a struggle for, let's say, for the soul, for the minds of our Ukrainians, who are in occupied territory, this is also the opening of the KPMA, and the opportunity for Ukrainian universities to teach the Aboriginals from the occupied territory. These are all important steps that will also move us to the peace process. We realize that the Minsk Treaties are not perfect and are not dogma. Both the President of Ukraine and our colleagues in Normandy format spoke of this, Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Macron. They're not cut off on the slabs, they said. They can be updated, reviewed according to the position of Ukraine and the positions we have always discussed. This is primarily a security factor, Ukraine's control over the border. And the next step is any political process. This must be preceded by divorce, exchange or parallel, as has been the case in many conflicts, and so on. Since July 27, the truce has lasted, and it cannot be compared with previous regimes. Loss is much lower. And now we have a slightly different situation in Donbas than before. We'll keep moving. The role of Parliament here may be helpful. But I'm going to remind you that we're laying down the principles of internal and external politics. And this document that we now have to support, it's so interesting, it's kind of about the internal formal. And he was being considered by a committee of state authorities. Subcommittee. But in fact it is also about foreign policy. Because it is about supporting Ukraine with the broad coalition that is, and which, we are sure, will expand to bring peace to Ukraine as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u37	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in factions in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u38	Oleg Seminsky, 205 District, Chernigus, "Serve of the People." Please give the word to Kostin Andrija Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u39	Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make this decision so that the negotiation process continues. We understand, and this is supported by all the international partners of Ukraine, that the negotiating and diplomatic way of resolving the situation in Donbasa is now the only effective one. We understand how difficult these negotiations are, like the Tripartite Contact Group, where the delegation of the Russian Federation is always trying to show itself as such as an intermediary that we've never recognized or recognized. We understand what the difficulties are in negotiating in the "normal" format. But the existence of this law is the basis for a continuation of the negotiating process so that peace in the Ukrainian Donbasi will be restored so that the territorial integrity of Ukraine can be restored. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to believe in the manipulation of some politicians who say that this law already foresees such complex situations and features that do not fit the Constitution. I have always said this, and I say that the role of Parliament in political settlement will be fundamental. Because political settlement is the adoption of laws. And what they're going to be like when we go through a negotiation path is up to us. We have red lines, this is the Constitution and the society that will determine our common position with you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u41	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I can't help but overlook and evaluate the previous performances. This is not just in Kiev and Moscow, but in Berlin, they're talking in Paris, they're talking in Washington, they're talking in London, they're talking in London, as you used to say. That's why I don't know why I'm trying to get emotional. Today we have to take a pragmatic step. But, you know, this pragmatic step is hurting me, because when we were carrying this over to the ancestors year after year, at Peter Dusty, I get it, because he played, he speculated on it, he made it up for himself. What are you up to? The year was enough to put all the dots above the "and" and carry out your main task, the main task of the President of Ukraine is to bring peace back to our country. And for that, many of our opponents today in the second round went out and voted for you, Mr. President. Today, of course, we must fulfill our obligation to those who hope that today’s authorities will still be able to restore peace to their homes, which means to our country. But I'll be honest with you, according to Stanislavsky, "I don't believe it!".. I don't believe you're capable of taking this decisive step and restoring peace. So I advise you today to vote not for a year, but for three years, and you will go, and we will bring peace back to our country! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u43	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, one Western diplomat once showed me a piece of paper that he was making for a member of one government, the position was very simple. He was asked how his State should view mine agreements and this law, which is derived from these agreements. These began quite simply. The positions of our nation are based on one simple question: do we consider the sovereignty of Ukraine to be inviolable, or do we consider this sovereignty to be a compromise enough to agree on an end to the conflict, and we consider this territory to be an area of Russia's interest. Politics begins by calling things their names, at least to themselves. For a long time, we tried to use ourselves to call war a war. Very often and very often, words speak: formal, procedural, technical. If you consider the Constitution a formality, say it out loud! If you consider a violation of sovereignty a procedural issue, say it out loud! If you think the Constitution and the violation of sovereignty is a small coin that can be traded with an aggressor, the invaders and the murderers, say it out loud and vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u45	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. A speedboat? Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, every year you and I live under the tree and continue for a year the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government of the ORDLO. Please tell me if we're waiting for anything, tell us what we're waiting for, and we'll wait together. Where's the President? Why can't we hear a plan of action to resolve the situation on Donbas? Why don't we hear Plan B, Plan B, other plans that we were promised to show? Where are the real actions? Dear colleagues, we need peace, our people live there. We need to get the Ukrainian territories back. We need to create a normal future for our children. Mr. President, please tell us the real plan, and we will support you in everything. But when there is no action plan, what are we talking about? Simple prolongation and change of date will not bring peace to Donbassa, will result in no result. Tell me, when will we hear something from you, and when will peace finally prevail in Ukraine? The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill. But once again, I stress that we need a concrete plan of action to address the situation in Donbas. Because you can't do that anymore, you can't just carry a date every time and do nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u47	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, surely, every life saved is of the highest value. But I'm shocked when the authorities applaud because there's a daily breach of the silence regime, there's still killing and hurting, but they don't want to see it. What is happening this year in the norm process? It's blocked because in the previous years, almost every month, phone calls were made. The release of hostages is blocked, and the worst part is that today the country knows no last name for which we are fighting. Recently, Asiev Stanislav, a martyr of this regime who now occupied Donbas, released a terrible book of occupation. And in fact, there he also says that the publicity of liberation processes saves lives. During this time, you've almost resuscitated these regimes because of the so-called advisory board, the mine process today is inhabited by exotic people like Fokin. And unfortunately, Zelensky doesn't have a plan "A" or a plan "B" for release.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, two more speeches with motives, and we move on to the vote. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u50	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Are we told that this law on peace? Find me at least one word in this law called "peace." This law is not about the protection of displaced persons, it is not about the protection of businesses, which the invaders, the Russian invaders, are holding back from the Ukrainian businessmen. This law is not about the development of Donbas, which is occupied by Russia. But this law on special police, which will agree with Russia, on special judges who will agree with Russia, on special prosecutors who will agree with Russia. This law is no longer about Ukraine. And this law that Russia will have an impact on Ukraine, and this law lays the groundwork for the further destruction of Ukraine and that other territories will claim their individuality and the characteristics of their territorial claims. That's what this law is about. So "Paternity" didn't vote for this, it won't vote, and it calls on all the patriots in this room to think about putting the foundation into the breakup of Ukraine. We're against the collapse of Ukraine. We are for its unification and for the depopulation of the Ukrainian territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u51	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, 7 years goes to war, 7 years can't heal a wound in Donbas, 7 years of human suffering, passing 10,000 people a day in the Stančina Lugansk region and in Donetskina, dying directly on the crossings. And today's bill, which gives the prolongation for the seventh year, just makes it possible not to shoot at these areas. But do we need to understand what we are fighting for, fight for territory, or fight for the souls of people? We're fighting for social justice in our country, pensions, jobs. A week ago, we fought to pay the miners from this rostrum, and nothing came out of place. We will support this bill because it is needed today for peace. But the authorities today must take care of people inside the country and show that we live better, that people in those territories will do their utmost to restore peace. We need to make it out of this territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? First on the base, then on the whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetské and Luhansk Region (Registration No. 4467). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:05]] For 302 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote -- let me put it down. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (registration No. 4467). Please support and vote. [[11:20:48]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda, please prepare for the vote, is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Restoration of the Institutional Mechanism for the Prevention of Corruption (registration number 4470). I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned bill. Please support and vote. [[11:21:35]] For 306 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary session on 15 December 2020. Please support and vote. [[11:22:03]] For 315 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session on draft law registration number 4470. Please support and vote. [[11:22:32]] For 328 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:22:53]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! I want to say that this bill and the next bill 4471 were just designed by a working group made up of representatives of all the MPs and groups that are members of this Parliament. The task of the working group that I led was to restore the functionality of anti-corruption infrastructure, on the one hand, and on the other hand to take into account the positions that were in the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 November this year. There were two bills that were registered last week, seven days ago, the previous bill we voted with you a week ago, and we accepted the reinstatement of criminal responsibility for the lie in the declaration. These two bills restore NAZK’s position on the verification of declarations, by declaration, to what we are obliged to do as the national electorate of the ninth call. My colleague Anastasia Radina will talk about specific positions. I just want to thank all the representatives of the working group for having made a lot of compromises, many questions for this bill to appear and today be supported on the basis and in general. Please support these two bills. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u55	Thank you. The chairman of the Anticorruption Policy Committee, Anastasia Radina, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy has considered bill number 4470 and recommends that the Supreme Council approve it as a whole. Colleagues, this bill amends the Anti-Corruption Act and renews the mandate of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. This bill is in line with the recently published opinion of the Venice Commission, namely, that the bill renews the powers of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, which the Constitutional Court has not given a legal position on their non-constitutionality. That's exactly what the Venice Commission advised us to do. This bill sets out the specific features of anti-corruption action against judges. My colleagues, I would like to point out to the Venice Commission in paragraph 53 of my decision that there is no reason to create any special regime for the examination of judges' declarations. At the same time, however, there should be guarantees that judges are not involved in anticorruption measures. To this end, the Venice Commission recommended that a complaint mechanism be made for judges who could benefit from pressure on themselves. And that's what this bill is proposing. We're proposing to a working group that judges and judges of the Constitutional Court in case they feel that, in carrying out, for example, verifications of their declarations on them will be pressured, they can go to the High Council of Justice or the Constitutional Court accordingly, and those in turn to NAMC to remedy violations. Colleagues, after this bill, consulted the Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Council of Judges, and their proposals are taken into account. Finally, colleagues, I want to emphasize that we need to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, because if we don't return the mandate of NAMC by the end of this year, we're actually questioning all of the declarations of all officials in the 20th year. I am convinced that such a gift is unclean under the tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Anastasia. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u58	Dear Ukrainians, you remember that on October 25, Greensky conducted a survey on life imprisonment for top-corruption workers. So far, the country still doesn't know what kind of corruption the survey was for, and the Servant of the People's Party hides the information that the funds were directed at, and NAMC cannot answer that question because its activities are blocked by a decision of the Constitutional Court that could not be taken without Greene's knowledge. This is how we fight the corruption of Zelensky's times. You know, there used to be this popular abbreviation of "BIC" -- a former intelligent person, so here's what I want to do to introduce a new KAC abbreviation -- a former anti-corruptionist. Now, the former anti-corruption officials are inhabited by the Crucifixion and much of the "Serve of the People" faction, which now justifies corruption, here's the "Kaki" in the highest cabinets of the state. Now they're justifying the transfer by the Pecher Court of Cases against officials of the President's Office from the NABU independent to the fully pocket DBD, and now they're justifying the work of the Attorney General's Office of the name of Venedictov, who is simply "breathing" all these Kaks, including by hiding corruption in the highest echelons of power. Well, of course, all these products justify that Zelensky didn't submit any draft legislation to restore NAMK, but instead in his projects he was still trying to get the power structures out of the declaration so that they could, people who are corrupt risks in their work, including through defense purchases today, avoid full responsibility. Our team, President Dustenk's team, has created anti-corruption infrastructure, and today we are co-authors of this law, we will restore the NAM and we will demand, including the "servicing" to give complete information: so who did the survey for which money is useful to corrupters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u59	Sergey Vlasenko, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, let's do a few thesis so that there are no myths and manipulations. There is no constitutional crisis. The decision of the Constitutional Court should be respected. And it's not just the Fatherland faction, it's the position of the Venice Commission. We, as a faction of the Fatherland the very day after the Constitutional Court's decision, took a thorough look at it, introduced three bills that fully resolved all the issues: and the restoration of the Declaration, and the restoration of criminal responsibility, and the special declaration for judges. By the way, the speakers here said that the Venice Commission was only talking about the only way that judges could be declared. No, it's not. The Venice Commission said that there are many options and forms and possibilities for the declaration of judges. But Parliament remained an island of stability in this situation. Parliament did not run a course of anti-constitutional decisions. Parliament created a working group where compromise was found. What's being proposed right now is some compromise that needs to be supported, which needs to be voted for. And I want to point out that this compromise is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. But I have a second question. We've just been told here by the creators of anti-corruption infrastructure that they're good at. And where is the effectiveness of this anti-corruption infrastructure, where the top-corruption verdicts, where they're held accountable in five years? Where is the effectiveness of this anti-corruption system in general, where corruption in society is reduced? This is what needs to be said most, not about the creation of new anti-corruption bodies or the protection of specific people in specific inefficient anti-corruption bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Sergey Rachmanin, Voice faction. Jaroslav Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u62	You might think there's no coronary disease, but people just die. You might think that there is no constitutional crisis, and it's just that Ukraine loses every day money stolen by corrupters and hidden behind lies in declarations. It's 30 million dollars closed. This is the price of the Constitutional Court’s decision, probably incomplete. Cases against the mayor of Odessa Truhanov, against the former head of the Zaporozhye ODA, Mr. Brill, against many officials, including the national deputies. Perhaps that is why we cannot make a simple decision for the eighth week. The constitutional crisis takes two months, although someone tries not to notice it, although the Venice Commission has noticed it. So let's take this decision now and close the discussions, there's a crisis or there's no. We vote on the basis as a whole. Stop pulling the cat by the tail or the other organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u63	Antonina Slavicka, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, the draft law before consideration today renews the supervisory powers of the National Anti-Corruption Agency for all persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government, including with regard to judges of general jurisdiction and judges of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, the bill provides for certain features of control measures for judges and judges of the CSA. What is it? The order for the full examination of the declarations concerning judges with the Supreme Council of Justice, the Constitutional Court, provides for certain features of the consent of the administrative protocols for the commission of corruption offences against judges and for the provision of, in particular, other safeguards and mechanisms that minimize, in our view, any possible interference with the activities of judges in the exercise of NLAs with their powers. And according to the working group, this takes into account some of the observations made by the Constitutional Court in its decision. At the same time, we see that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has made some observations on the content of this bill regarding the lack of clarity and clarity in the individual standards that we have worked on as part of the legal definition. We also believe that the issue of monitoring life - style has not been fully resolved. It cannot be according to methodical recommendations. But nevertheless, we believe that at least on the basis of this bill can definitely be supported. That's why we're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u65	All those who wish to speak? A kiss? Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, we thank this working group, which has actually drafted this bill to restore anti-corruption legislation and to restore and control the declaration mechanism by officials in this country. According to the NAZK bill, responses to possible corruption are being returned, and mechanisms are being put in place for such response. The functions of financial control and monitoring of the lives of our declarants — that is, the lives of officials — are restored. We think it's a balanced, compromise solution in this difficult situation. That's why the Trust MPs are going to vote on the basis of the bill as a whole. And we urge you in this room to support it for the sake of anti-corruption policy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u67	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? First on the base, then on the whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the Restoration of the Institutional Mechanism for the Prevention of Corruption (Registration No. 4470). Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:38:03]] For 321 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Please support and vote. [[11:38:28]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law 4471. Can you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, listen. I know you always have to. We have an application for a break with a replacement for a statement on budget issues. There is a proposal to vote on this issue now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, break, break. I'm sorry, it's a live break. Okay. Then please prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on establishing the characteristics of the protocol for administrative offences provided for in articles 172. 4, 172 prime. 9 and 188 prime. 46, 212 p.m. 15 With regard to the judge, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Can we vote? Two factions insist on discussion. I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the day. Please support and vote. [[11:40:03]] For 327 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to accept the bill as urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills by the day of the plenary session until 15 December 2020. Please support and vote. [[11:40:33]] For 326 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:40:58]] For 323 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:41:20]] For 263 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, if they insist on performing, perhaps without a committee and without authors to sign up for the performance? If there's one faction, we can make one faction and vote. Sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u69	Sergey Olegovich Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Parliament of the past convocation, the eighth vocation, has passed very important bills for us, the so-called anti-corruption reform that has led Ukraine to lose its train. Now, unfortunately, all these laws have been repealed by the Constitutional Court, and we need to restore it. 4471, this bill is institutionally related to the first Law 4470, to which we have fully reverted the NAMC verification procedure. 4471 provides for the drafting of an administrative protocol concerning judges. That is why the Constitutional Court repealed laws allowing NAMC to carry out verifications of declarations. European Solidarity will therefore support the return of an anti-corruption package of laws to Ukrainian legislation so that in 2020 they can verify declarations. So "European Solidarity" will support Bill 4471 because it is an essential part of the previous law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u71	Will anyone else insist on the performances? Can we vote? Mother insists. Well, it's written down. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u72	Thank you to the Supreme Council for the previous vote. It's really a shame that we have to take time, like eight weeks is not enough. We're just voting on the basis and in general. Voice position, Venice Commission, please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u73	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention in essence to her, as voted by the Supreme Council. The previous bill is essentially prescribed correctly, but there is no authorization for other laws. A new mechanism is in place for carrying out certain actions with regard to judges, judges of the Constitutional Court. But we forgot to authorize other laws, i.e. the Supreme Council of Justice, the judges of the judiciary, on the Constitutional Court Act. But if no authority is given, this mechanism will not work. The second question. This law, which was passed by 4471, we all know that a year ago the Supreme Council voted that the amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Administrative Code, which we are currently considering, are only made through the Committee of Law. If we have violated the Rules and this bill has gone through another committee, I have a question: if anyone challenges a decision before the Constitutional Court with a violation of the Rules and a procedure adopted by law, which we will expect from the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, it is necessary not to violate the Rules, to follow the Rules, to make appropriate decisions, and then the decisions will not be annulled by the Court. We support it on the basis, and all other decisions will be made in the form of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u75	Polakov Anton. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I want to tell those colleagues who dream that we have a constitutional crisis in the country, to say that we have a crisis that is unconstitutional, we have a crisis in the heads of managers. In the heads of the leaders who symbolize today’s inadequacy of government. The country needs authority, but above all, the authority of the law, the authority of an independent judicial branch of the state. We welcome the conclusions of the Venice Commission on the most recent decisions of the Constitutional Court. We have heard that there are not the only international legal standards in the world that can simply be taken, copied and implemented in practice. We don't want to invent in the fight against corruption or re-monitoring judges just some Ukrainian wheel, but we have to get out of the rule of law. We have heard from the Venice Commission that the political authorities should not block the activities of the Constitutional Court, as was the draft law of the President of Ukraine on the dissolution of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There can be no financial pressure, no procedural impediments that will result in the failure of this independent body to exercise constitutional justice. And we read in the conclusions of the Venice Commission: "If, I quote, the Ukrainian legislator intends to oblige NAMC to report periodically on its activities with respect to judges, the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges (WCC) seems to be the most appropriate body to play this role in the context of Ukraine." So let's just read correctly, friends, that we can implement in practice in part of the conclusions of the Venice Commission. And let's ask ourselves how much of today's NAM with its powers can guarantee noninterference with the constitutional justice of today's Constitutional Court. And on the basis of these conclusions of the Venice Commission, today we are going to vote in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then let us proceed to the vote, please invite the people’s deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head. The previous vote has clearly confirmed that there is no constitutional crisis, there is a normal work of Parliament. As for the bill that we're currently considering. The previous speaker quoted the conclusion of the Venice Commission, in which they actually said that the best mechanism for monitoring the integrity of judges is the Higher Qualifications Commission. But I want to remind you that because of the unconstitutional activities of the majority in the Supreme Council, there has been no Higher Qualifications Commission in Ukraine for more than a year, because the previous composition has been launched and the new composition cannot be formed. So the "Paternity" proposal was from the beginning that the WCC should carry out such control. But as a conscious political power we took a step back, we really did learn the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which said that any options are possible. We've taken this step back for compromise and we're going to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of the provisions of the Protocol on Administrative Offences, provided for in articles 172 prima. From 4 to 172 cf. 9 and 188 prime. 46, 215 p.m. 15 With regard to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (registration number 4471). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:50:07]] For 325 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, draft Law registration number 4471. Please support and vote. [[11:50:39]] For 321 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is the Budget Code and Budget. We have a break with a replacement for the performance. I suggest we start a break that's scheduled for 12 minutes early. And if we have to, we'll use this break in an extra way. Is there no objection? If not, I now request one representative from the delegational factions and groups, the head of the budget committee, to attend a meeting, which will take place on the third floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Now, dear colleagues, there has been a meeting with representatives of the MP factions and groups. It offered the next proposal that today, since we have lost, well, almost an hour of time for negotiations, we have had a break in fact and a break that was foreseen by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a proposal to make that we are working today before we consider three key issues: the Budget Code, this is the budget and the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The procedure, first, not the motive, because it's not for motive, Irina Volodymyrna, now. Out of procedure, Heroshchenka, one minute. And please take your seats, get ready for work. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we are aware of the importance of voting both for the budget and for the Budget Code, even though we do not support these documents, but we ask that we do not vote now for the continuation of work today, because at 3:00 in the D.B., there will be an announcement to our colleague Tetjani Blackwall. I want to remind you, especially the opposition factions, that a year ago the Zelensky regime released the Berkuts unpunished, that there are now volunteers and veterans in the prisons, Riffmaster, Yulja Kuzmenko, they are completely unproven. And now that Janukovitch's lawyers are back in the highest cabinets of the state, and the only thing about Maidan is that it's going to be a case against Tani Blackwall, who was the victim of the aunts, and today we're going to hand over this message, we're definitely against it, because our faction is going to be in full stock to go back and support our colleague. We ask you not to vote in favour of continuing work today. And adopt both the budget and the budget code by 15 o'clock or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you again, we're working in normal mode until the 15th. But if we don't get through these three questions, we're going to have a little bit more time to accept our nation's main financial document next year. I think we should all agree, understanding the responsibility that lies ahead. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the proposal to continue today's plenary session, if necessary, until the issue is exhausted. Or by the 15th, if we're going to get what we need to do, or before the Supreme Council sees the bill of registration numbers 4100-d, 4000 and 4448. Is there no objection? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:50]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 4100-d) The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on budget, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? A lot of people. Wait. A lot of law enforcement, are we going to go straight or are we just going to define the issues that you're going to insist on? Let's do that, if there's no objection, in factions you can figure out who's going to speak. Wait, I see, raise your hand. Rubleov, I see, "Serve of the people." Piece of cake, huh? For confirmation at the end. Dear colleagues, how many of you are there? Can I have a list then? Names and edits, okay? "For the future" is going to insist on editing? No, it's not. "Trust"? No, it's not. Yeah? A list of then, of the regulations and of the man who. "European Solidarity"? No, it's not. "Paternity"? They don't insist on editing. Scrambled two revisions. "Serve of the people"? Ruble. Please give the list to me, too. Then we'll start if there's no objection, from Fatherland. Three revisions: Volintz, two schkrum repairs, right? Okay. Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's splinter, regulation 443.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I'd like to ask you to support Amendment 443. This is an amendment that concerns really important processes not only for the Budget Code but also for the public service. On the first reading, you and I passed a law that people who are to retire today at 65 years of age may be left in public service in response to the special needs of the public service at the decision of the director, if they do not deny and want to work, for another year. Sadly, this law may not be able to be accepted in the second reading and signed quickly. And that's why a large number of government agencies and officials are asking us to accept this amendment now. I'd like to support her. It does not challenge international partners or other colleagues. I think she's right. I'd like to support you, at the end of the 443 amendment, please for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u84	Are you insisting? And I understand that factions don't deny supporting this amendment, do they? They don't deny it. Please prepare for the vote. It's not taken into account by the committee, but I do understand that colleagues, in principle, support this proposal. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote of 443. The author insists. I take it a lot of factions don't deny this amendment, do they? Then please support and vote. [[12:54:04]] For 306 Decision taken. Edit included. Next line Skrum 444.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u85	Colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you for your support. It was the right thing to do. I don't insist on this amendment, but I have to make it sound so that the halls and Ukrainians understand what's going on in the government, and so in the budgetary process. Today, during quarantine, we have newly created government authorities that were not quarantined during quarantine, and no person in these government bodies has been assigned any competitive appointment, no procedures for examination. So the entire government body is assigned under the rules of the so-called selection without criteria of education, without criteria of experience, without criteria, even knowledge of Ukrainian language, unfortunately. And we're all government authorities seeing created in quarantine without competitive selection, without any checks. This is completely wrong, so I made this amendment. This is the position of our faction that all state bodies are to be appointed only by open, transparent selection and worthy appointments. Sadly, this does not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u86	You don't insist, do you, on the vote? Okay. Let's move on. Thank you. Next, the Voice faction. The Cabal. Edit the number. Look, we. One minute, number 67 and number 139, 67th and 139th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? 67 readjustment is about local self-government, it's about finally making the local community financially independent to increase the number of PDFs from 60 to 65 percent for local communities and from 40 to 45 percent for Kiev. Why is this important? All the struggle against the coronavirus is taking place, and the local communities are underfunded, so please support. Dear Majorists, respected colleagues who hurt for their communities, the Ministry of Finance is constantly underfunded local budgets because it thinks only about its internal central budget. Please, colleagues, back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u88	Both were rejected by the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the remedies are rejected because the implementation of such a proposal will result in the loss of income from the general budget. So the correction is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u90	Thank you. I'm betting on the 67 vote, the committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:18]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 139, is rejected by the committee. You're on. One minute. I can't hear you. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u91	139th is the same thing, but only Kiev applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u92	I'm betting on a vote of 139, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:01]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Next line is 313. Two minutes, give the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, on which the 313 and the next 318 are to be voted on. It's about the justice of local budgets. We all know that we have communities that are able to make a lot of money, and most of these communities, if they have a power ratio of more than 1.1, the state takes money from them. More than 50 percent of the money goes back to the central budgets, and that's very bad. Because there's no incentive to make more money. The various cities of Ukraine, different communities that have the power to create investors, create jobs once they become self-sufficient, the state takes money from them. Incentives to invest, incentives to create jobs disappear. And it's very bad for these communities, as it is for all decentralization. Why? Because in the long run, let's say we stay at the same level when you get to some conditional financial security that's still going on, the city stops working. My instructions are to expand the alignment coefficients. What will that do? This will give new motivation, a new impetus for local communities to raise more money. Those communities that can do this, they'll make more money, they'll invest in their cities, and they'll move on. Those unable to do so will also have the motivation to earn money, for they will not be paid by the State. So, colleagues, if you support decentralization, if you support local self-government, if you're independent of local communities, please support 313 and the next 318. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Ready to vote? Committee position, 313, 318 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the bill is rejected by the committee because, according to Minfin, the change in existing indices is appropriate to review the results of the implementation of local budgets in 2021 and the assessment of financial security during the year of the authorization of the new territorial communities, resulting from their budgetary capacity. So at the moment, this amendment is rejected, it can be done. To get back to her, to that question later on from the result that was sounded. Thank you. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u96	Thank you. I'll bet you 313 votes. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:15]] For-141 The decision is not taken. 318 law. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:35]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Next, the Voice representatives. Vassilchenko, 419 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u97	Galina Vasilchenko, Golos faction, 118th District, Lvivščina. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? This right here is about counting the excise on the sale of fuel, which has now been accounted for in the local budgets, and since the 21st year, they want to take it out of the local budgets. And this is, in most of the O.T.A., a very important article in their local budgets. And I'm a major deputy, and I talk to communities a lot, and they're just yelling about how much they need to leave this excise in the local budgets. I know that so many national MPs, especially majors, have made similar adjustments. So I urge you to support, vote and show local self-government that we really support them, not just by saying things. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u98	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the application is dismissed, and I'll explain why, by the committee. Considering that this excise tax is the source of the road fund, the issue of calculating 13.44 percent of the excise tax on fuel to local self-government budgets is proposed to be settled in another way. What do we propose? In the State Budget Act, 40 percent of subsidies granted to district road budgets are distributed between the budgets of local self - government in the length of streets and the roads of municipal property. What does that mean? Dear colleagues, we have a special road fund, which is distributed in a way: 35 percent of which goes to the area. We offer 35 percent of these funds that will come in the area, 40 percent of them will go exclusively to the construction of roads of municipal property and local importance. There was no such standard before. What are the benefits? We give.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Time's up. Ready to vote? I'm betting on a vote of 419 people's deputies, Vasilchenko. The committee was not supported. Ready? Please vote. [[13:04:44]] For 236 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Next line number 12. Stefani's.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u101	Mr. Head, I have six rights. I can have three minutes and then six minutes, so I don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u102	Excuse me, let's give you two minutes, and then you have six rights there, we'll vote. Okay? Two minutes, please give Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u103	Respectful colleagues, the remedies that will now be discussed, are closely related to the purchase of lifesaving drugs at the expense of the state budget. What a situation. Every year, if the purchase of drugs is inconvenient, or if the drugs or vaccines are ordered this year, and they are to arrive in the following year, all costs will be burned at the end of the year. The situation that took place this year under the direction of Mr. Stepanova has proved that several billion dollars for the purchase of medicines will just be burned at the end of the year because of the poor work of the Ministry of Health. The other one. Some drugs are actually produced for a long time. Vaccines are produced for 2 years. By our unanimous support of the National Health Committee, we are amending the State Code to allow us to make long - term commitments in the purchase of drugs and vaccines. What does that mean? That this year we can order some drugs, and only when they are made will we pay for them. Usually, at the end of the year, the Ministry of Health pours billions of dollars into the accounts of other organizations just so that they do not burn. If we allow the Ministry of Health to make long - term commitments, this will not happen. We talked about this and with the finance minister who's here, we've raised this issue on the committee. These six very important rights will, at last, help Ukraine effectively to make government drug purchases, not to pour out government money as a prepayment at the end of the year, but to pay for these drugs when they are produced and able to enter Ukraine. I ask you very, very much to support these changes, they are extremely important for Ukrainian patients, because this year they may not be able to use drugs at all because of this Stepanova, which the buyers do not know how to conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Committee position, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we ask you to reject the amendment. It should be noted that there are a number of related proposals: 12, 40, 41, 124, 125, 132, 137, 366, 436 — suggesting a procedure for medium - term health obligations. According to Minfin, however, the issue of the possibility of making long - term health obligations can now be resolved within the framework of current legislation, without amending the code. In particular, Minfina’s Order No. 309 on the order of registration and the calculation of budgetary obligations, defined procedures for the implementation by the arranger, the recipient of the budget, and long - term commitments. So Kabin all the more confirms that they are willing to make appropriate changes to this command if they are needed to resolve this issue. Thank you. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u106	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote in turn. Amendment No. 12 of the national deputy Stefanishina, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:51]] For 254 Decision taken. Edit included. 41 revisions, not supported by the committee. Dear colleagues, I understand that others have no point in voting. Right? Is it? They're the same type. Oh, no? I'm betting on 41 votes, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:09:30.]] For 268. Decision taken. Edit included. 125 revisions, you need a vote, too? I'll bet you 125 votes. Is the committee dismissed? Please identify and vote. [[13:10:00]] For 293
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u107	Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u108	132 revisions, not supported by the committee. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 132. Please vote. [[13:10:29]] For 311 Edit supported, edit is counted. 137. 137th or 437th? Turn on Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u109	137.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u110	137 revisions, not supported by the committee. Ready to vote? I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[13:11:06]] For 324 Decision taken. Edit included. 440 revisions, Stefanish's extreme readjustment, are not supported by the committee. Please vote. We're voting on the amendment. [[13:11:29]] For 319 Decision taken. Edit included. Dear colleagues, I still have the "Trust" and the "Serve of the People" papers. No one's insisting on the papers anymore? Thank you. "Trust," 151 revisions, Bilozer. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u111	It's already been counted by excise -- 151st and 155th by the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u112	342 axles. 343, I'm sorry, Bilozer. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u113	It's in boarding school. I'm still asking you to consider this because we now have six sanatorium boarding schools, and we have, in principle, voted on a bill that allows them to be preserved this year, but for some reason we didn't foresee it in the Budget Code. So I'm still asking you to take into account the financing of sanatorium schools that we've already allowed them to exist in the fall and they're already working, they're 16,000 children who are studying there, they're medical personnel, they're teachers. So we can't take or give them money in the middle of the year for the next year. So I'm asking you to support the boarding schools, vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u114	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? Yuri Mikhailovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u115	Committee position. We're asking for a readjustment to be rejected. There's no general secondary education law that defines a type of school as a sanatorium. This issue was discussed on a committee yesterday, and, in principle, the Committee on Education and the Cabinet agreed that they would come to terms with this. It's been financed before, and I think it's going to be easy to finance in the future. So right now, there's no point in supporting this amendment. Edit rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 343th amendment is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:52]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 277 Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u117	It's also an amendment that was linked to boarding school sanatoriums. Colleagues, I'm asking you to record, we've passed the law that we've allowed. By the way, the law has been removed from all factions, passed the law from the Servant of the People, from Julia Grishina, who allows these schools to exist, and we have continued for a year the period of transformation. What are we doing? I'm still asking you to think about it and support the boarding schools, because we've already voted on it, we just haven't put it into the budget code, and we haven't foreseen at all, like, Sanatorium boarding schools that exist this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u118	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee: to reject this amendment. At present, it is proposed that this issue be addressed by amendments to section VI, paragraph 50, of the Code, by which funding was continued in the same way as it did in 2019. So the correction is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u120	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the 277 vote, not supported by the committee. Please vote. [[13:15:27]] For 238. Edit included. 420 lashes, baboon. Are you insisting that there is no point? We've cleared the question. Thank you. Masurashu, 273rd, 274 revisions. Give me two. One minute, yes, and we'll vote the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u121	George Mazurasu, Committee on Youth and Sports These adjustments apply to the financing of culture and sports at least 4 percent of the total revenue of the corresponding budgets. These are important social standards that should be guaranteed by the State and should not depend on the ability of the local budgets and the will of the respective leaders and deputies. I very much ask my colleagues to support this amendment and vote in favour of guaranteed funding. We are currently closing down sports schools, and so on, because this has become dependent on the ability and desire of local leaders and deputies. These important social standards must be guaranteed. Please support these revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u122	Would you please support these revisions? Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u123	No, no. Dear colleagues, the committee’s appeal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u124	No, let's not go the other way. The committee's position is to reject?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u125	Decline, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u126	I'll bet you a vote of 273. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:22]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item 274. 274th. I'm betting on the 274 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:54]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ruble. 147 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, 20 constituency, Volinsk district. Please place a $147 bill on preserving the accounting of part 13.44 per cent of the excise tax produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine fuel to the general, local budgets. Today, local budgets require more than ever that these costs remain. And I understand that colleagues want to interrupt somewhere, but we're looking at all of Ukraine, all the heads of OTG and the communities. These costs are more necessary than ever because they are used to fight COVID to support infrastructure projects. I'd like to ask respectable colleagues in the session room to support this because our communities are expecting it. The decentralization process that we have completed has been completed for our people living in our communities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u128	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the appeal has been rejected, the more the Excise Bill 13.44 has been voted out. But at the moment, we're proposing, and the committee has supported a completely different model of the distribution of this money. We suggested that 40 percent of the road subsidy be divided into all roads of municipal property in places to get all the communities created, not just those where there is a fuel gun, but all of them. And what I want to tell you is that 7.5 billion in that year was fuel excise, and this year we've offered 8.8 billion to divide between everything in proportion and in fair terms. Therefore, this amendment is rejected by the committee and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u130	Thank you. I understand we've already voted that way today? I'm betting on a vote of 147, not supported by the committee, the author insists. Please vote. [[13:20:19]] For 304 It's a 147th edition. Thank you. Dear colleagues, all by factions. No, it's not. Next line is 152, Fris. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u131	Mr. Head, a similar right to correct Rublov, I don't think there's any point at all. I thank my colleagues for supporting an amendment that will allow local communities to save money and fight COVID for the real money they have in their communities. Thank you, all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u132	152. Ready to vote? I'll bet you 152 votes. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we agreed. If you weren't in the hall, when all the factions were making their amendment proposals, if I give you now, everyone will come, say, give me more. 152. You don't have to vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the validation checks, if you'll excuse me. There are still four confirmations left. Ready? It's okay. It's Let's do this, Andry Andryovich Klochko, here's four revisions, I'll give you two minutes, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u133	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You and I made business commitments last year, in front of the builders that we were both factions, and the President, we were all very, very, very supportive of Doing Business, which is not going to be a market share. So it was that this night, 445, 446, 447 and 48 appeared in this budget, and they want to return the pie. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I'm putting these checks on confirmation and I'm asking you to fail them. Please identify this issue and do not go beyond the walls and committees of either the economy or our committee. I am very grateful, so I am asking for the details of the revisions that are not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u134	We don't have a break-in. Okay. We don't have it. Let's not push in the hall, okay? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, these were taken into account. It is the payment of this share of the rations that is helping the local communities now in a difficult economic state. So please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u136	Ready to vote? 445 axles. Please don't shout, dear fellows. Don't shout. The committee's 445 revisions are rejected. Please vote. I'm sorry, the committee's supported, the committee's taken her into account. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please vote. She, wait, stop voting. Stop voting. Once again, these four amendments were supported by the committee, they were taken into account. Now they're looking at confirmation. I'll bet you vote 445. Please vote. [[13:24:51]] For-137 Edit rejected. 446 axles. Please vote. It's also about confirmation. [[13:25:11]] For 132 447 revisions, supported and counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. [[13:25:38]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And 448 revisions are counted by the committee. I'll put her to a vote, confirm. Please vote. [[13:26:07]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. All the changes have been made. Ivan Ivanovich, well, look, that's not how it's done. The factions, each brought their list of rights, agreed. The others will be here soon. With all due respect. Dear colleagues, please prepare to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, please approach the leaders of the MP factions and groups here for a moment. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. For the law as a whole It's a change to the Budget Code, it's a very important issue. Without it, we can't go to the budget. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on a second reading proposal. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 4100-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:31:45]] For 311 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft law. I'm sorry. Now, as part of the negotiations that were with representatives of MP factions and groups and the committee of profile, I now announce a break of 15 minutes. I'll explain why. According to those decisions that were taken during the voting for the Budget Code, and those rights, the committee needs to balance the budget so that we can vote it peacefully. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by the committee to meet urgently and to hold meetings on matters related to the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 in connection with those proposals supported by the Ukrainian National Deputies during the vote for amendments to the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for a moment? The budget committee is now sitting, but the issues that need to be further elaborated in relation to the decisions that were taken during the consideration of the 4100-d bill are a little bit more. Plus there are disagreements that will also have to be taken into account. There's been an offer from representatives of MP factions and groups, I understand, almost everyone, to announce a break until 4:00. By the 16th. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't want to support the budget, you don't want to fund the state for next year? I got it. To work, you see, colleagues are called on to work. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, well, there's a national MP who doesn't want to work. Well, can you do that? To do that, we need a decision from the Supreme Council of 226 votes. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Everybody ready to work? Is everyone ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a recess until 4:00, for a recess in the plenary. Is there no objection? None. Even Nestor Ivanovich supports. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for your position as a statesman. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:30:42]] For 293 Decision taken. There's a break until 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Please, the heads of the factions, approach the forerunner. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're working, we're working. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, back to our work. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, today, December 15th. Mr. Mandy, the honourable national MPs! Gorgeous, Mandy, come here! Today, December 15, 2020, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 4100-d). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for removing disagreements are made electronically. If there is no objection, I will put this document to the vote for adoption. Wait, I'll invite you to the rostrum before the committee vote. Alexander Mikolaiovich Truhin, please, about 131st, about the two lines that were offered for reconciliation. I mean, the amendments that were voted on, Mr. Rublov. Hold on to 131. Please turn on the microphone for 2 minutes. Alexander Mikolaiovich, we have to be there in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u139	Thank you. On December 15, the committee met and introduced such amendments. In such a situation, bearing in mind the support of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of the permanent mechanism of budgeting for these changes. the relationship in the text of the bill adopted is proposed to delete section VI, paragraph 43-3, of the Budget Code of Ukraine in paragraph 48 of the first law adopted. Chapter I of the adopted law should be supplemented by a new paragraph concerning the amendment to part three of article 29 of the Ukrainian Budget Code: "Paragraphs 1 and 2 of part 3 of article 29 of the Code of Budget for Ukraine should read as follows: "Excise tax on fuel and transport products produced in Ukraine, except excise duty, as defined in paragraph 6 of part one of article 66 and paragraph 16 of the Prime Act. 1 part of the first article of this Code." The other one. Excise tax on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of fuel and transport equipment, except excise duty as defined in paragraph 16 of the Prime Act. 2 parts of the first article of this Codex 64. Third. In the adopted law, amend article 64 of the Ukrainian Budget Code to replace the words "budgets of villages, villages and cities" with the words "appropriate budgets of local self-government". An appendix, a comparative table to some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, is given to you, agreed upon, on two sheets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u140	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Is everyone clear? There's no discussion here. It's not for motive. I'm telling you, he just said there were two revisions. One was out of voice, one was Ruble's. I don't remember who the voter was. Vasilchenko and Rublov. One revision predicted the return of the so-called excise for a year, and Rublov's amendment was unlimited. The committee has considered these two amendments and has offered to support us now, but that is contrary to the two legal amendments. The committee has now suggested that we support the amendment in fact in what was proposed by Ruble because it covers the issue more widely. There's no objection, right? None. Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Ready? I would like to vote on the proposals I have put forward to remove the disagreement in the text of the adopted Act amending the Ukraine Budget Code (registration number 4100-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:22:45]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2021 (Registration No. 4000), second reading. In accordance with the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: report by the Finance Minister of Ukraine, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenka, on the budget conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the draft budget for 2021, up to 10 minutes (as soon as possible); replies by the Minister of Finance to the questions, up to 6 minutes; report by the Deputy Head of the Committee on the budget of Truchin Alexandr Mikolaiovich, up to 5 minutes; reply to questions by the Deputy Head of the Committee, up to 6 minutes; statements by representatives of the MPs and groups, up to 14 minutes. After two minutes, your colleagues were two minutes away from the factions and groups. And six minutes for the national MPs. Then we go to the vote. Is there no objection? None. Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Sergei Mikhailovich Marchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u141	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! This year we prepared a budget in principle for another economic situation in the country and the world. Our starting points were: the decline in GDP, the deficit in the budget -- 7.5 percent of GDP, the decline in industrial production, the failure to implement planned incomes -- 44 billion dollars, and the chronosis. All of this has forced us to reinforce the budgetary emphasis that determines the level of social protection of society. And that's what we've been paying attention to for our own strength and our potential. We've been brought here. It's when in the spring, in critical circumstances, the necessary funds were accumulated and they were able to respond to the COVID call, and when they were able to make up for a budget deficit of 44 billion dollars in six months, which we had on May 1. By optimizing and increasing the activity of tax administration and improving tax administration, and by destroying the VAT scrapping scheme, we have completely closed this gap. The annual income budget has already been completed and even exceeded by the tax service compared to the previous year. But without even looking at the coronary crisis, it's no delay in paying off VAT or pre-collected taxes. Customs also have to ensure that the targets are implemented, even if it seems difficult to do so, today’s realities. The tasks assigned must be learned to do. The support of international financial organizations and our international partners is vital. We have managed to preserve the trust and support of international partners. This testimony is 600 million euros of EU macro-financial assistance received last week. Yesterday, an agreement was signed with the World Bank on World Bank’s Second Additional Funding to deal with the effects of the 300 million - dollar pandemic. This year we're going to get $170 million. Budget next year. Last week we announced our next public issue of Eurobonds. Estimated return of 6.2 percent is the lowest on public eurobonds in U.S. dollars in U.S. history. The demand for foreign investors for the Ukrainian market for GDP is also returning. In the past week alone, the portfolio of nonresidents has increased by more than 2 billion dollars. Today we have another record auction. We continue to move within the framework of the International Monetary Fund programme. In the process of amending the budget for 2021, the Ministry of Finance consults the International Monetary Fund to develop a common vision of basic budgetary indicators, income, expenditure and deficits. Overall, the budget parameters of 2021 coincide with those of the Fund’s experts. All of this indicates that we are moving in the right direction, and the country is pursuing the chosen course to support financial stability and economic growth. The budget next year is our road map, it's the foundation for our country's further development, it's an opportunity for its development. When preparing the budget for second reading, we thoroughly processed about 2.5 thousand people's deputies' rights, much of them taking into account the priority of spending, the availability of resources and the state of the national economy. In general, the budget conclusions take into account parliamentary proposals for more than 14 billion dollars. In preparing the draft State budget for second reading, it was important for us to preserve the priorities set by the President of Ukraine and the Government that were supported by the people's deputies, while reducing the deficit of the budget, while respecting the principles of balance and reality. As a result, government deficits in the general government are falling from 5.8 per cent to 5.4 per cent and government budget deficits from 6 per cent to 5.5 per cent, amounting to 246.6 billion dollars. We've reduced the budget deficit between the first and the second readings by 23.7 billion dollars. Compared to 2020, we've reduced this by 2 percent, that's 52 billion dollars. In the medium term, we plan a gradual decline in the budget deficit to 4-4.5 percent of GDP in the 22nd year and to 3-3.5 percent of GDP in the 23rd year. The income portion of the budget is increased compared to the first reading of 21 billion dollars and is projected to amount to 1 trillion 92 billion dollars. These are real funds that the state plans to receive next year without raising taxes or exerting pressure on business. I would like to point out once again that the income portion is based on real macroeconomic projections and is reinforced by the detailed calculations made to the deputies in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code. It's about the extra part. When we worked together, we took into account an increase of 13.5 billion dollars. Thus, the budget is set at 1 trillion 347 billion dollars. This sum is sufficient to finance all the priority needs of our nation. Each tax payer’s bracelet will be used effectively and on purpose. The budget for the following year also provides for: increasing health expenditure; purchasing vaccines from COVID-19; increasing minimum wage; indexing pensions and supplementary payments to retirees aged 75 plus; raising the salaries of doctors by 30 per cent and teachers by 26 per cent; development of quality education, worthy support for culture, sport and digitalization; development of the "Available Credits 5-7-9" programme and portfolio guarantees for regional development; and spending on national security and defence needs increases to a record level of 5.93 per cent of gross domestic product. Infrastructural funding will be provided. Of these 89 billion is Big Building, 4.5 billion are railway upgrades and new wagons, 2.4 billion dollars is airport development. In general, the government budget's capital expenditure for the 21st year, in preparation for second reading, was increased by 10.2 billion dollars to 100 billion dollars, which will stimulate the country's economy. We consider the cost of 2021 a development budget that supports the country's financial position during the pandemic and provides reserves to move forward. We have carefully calculated all the economic possibilities: tax administration reserves, especially against the shadow sector. Today, there can be no place in the budget for populism and demagogies. I understand that when working on the budget, interests in my field are always more tangible than those of others. Each time before the parliamentary review of the draft budget, it becomes a line of opposition. We are forced to master all those who are unjustifiably willing to make certain areas happy at the expense of others. We have to be principled so that the country feels financially secure. The state must be just about all citizens and social needs without dividing between its own and that of strangers. What used to be considered the upper limit of the norm is now cut off by red lines. The Ukrainian politician must accept the goals of life. The very balance of budgetary expenditure is a guarantee of a fair treatment of the state for every citizen. At the same time, when individual high - ranking workers publicly place this principle and question, either by justifying a pandemic or by violating the rights of other citizens, we cannot tolerate it. I find it unacceptable to have political speculation about the pandemic in society. Attempts to earn political bonuses on a painful country’s subject affect professional human ethics. I warn you to adopt the budget exclusively as an anti-crisis tool. Despite the overall anti-pandemic behavior in the document, we've set forward strategic lines. Again, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance does not have a printing press that prints money. We'd be happy to raise wages for both the medics and the educated, and our soldiers who are defending our country, but we have to keep our balance and get out of the real possibilities of our economy. So I'm asking you to support this State Budget project today. The country has to enter the new year with a valid budget to have a tool for transforming the country. This budget is real for implementation, and we're willing to take responsibility for it. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u142	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Please sign up for a question to the finance minister. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u144	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u145	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have two questions. First question to the Prime Minister, and where is the composition of the government? Usually, when the State Budget is adopted a year, the entire government should sit in the government’s bed. This is because, for example, Minister Stepanov says that this budget kills health care? You can't get together inside the government, even if you support it more than once, and you're offering us a vote? That's the first question. Second question to the Minister of Finance. Between the first and the second readings, you suggested that the pension fund be reduced by 8.5 billion dollars. This is at a time when the short-term loan owed by the Pension Fund to the State Treasury is now 66 billion. It's a record number. During this year, it has increased by 20 billion dollars, which means that the Pension Fund lacks concessions to pay pensions to Ukrainians. What do you want to do, leave Ukrainians without pensions in 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to reassure you that the state budget is sufficient, including for retirement payments. The indicators have been adjusted to exceed the EU forecasting rate, and we have good reason to believe that the Pension Fund budget next year is balanced and realistic for implementation. Hence, there should be no room for speculation on the subject of pensions. As far as this year's pension payments are concerned, they are not available, and this year pensions will be paid on time and in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u147	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u148	Good afternoon. It would be desirable to answer all the questions, so where is the government, where is the full composition of the government? And my question is, why does the defense budget go down against the rising budgets of the force organs, and it doesn't go up? Are you afraid of the Ukrainian people or are you afraid of external aggression? Is it appropriate to increase the expenses of the President's Office, the Supreme Council and such repressive bodies? I mean there won't be an army, there won't be all of us, and there won't be you. So the wrong priorities, the outflow of personnel from the army and the massive release of medical personnel will put the country on the brink of disaster. Why, then, do you not increase your budget for the Armed Forces of Ukraine and for health care?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted in my report that in the security and defence sectors, the state has set record numbers of 5.93 percent of gross domestic product. You know that the distribution is carried out by the National Security and Defence Council, and there are sufficient expenses for the defense of the state to ensure the security of our state. And there is no reason to believe that the defence and security sector is not funded or underfunded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u151	Say the word to the devil.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u152	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u153	Dear Sergey Mikhailovich, it is known that it is important that the budget not only be balanced, but that it be realistic so that what we have voted today is not simply a paper. For example, in March, when we voted in favour of the budget, there were the same numbers, and now we see that a lot of expenditure and deficits don't change. For 94 billion people in 11 months, expenses, including 15 billion — defence and 24 billion — medical expenses, are not being adjusted. So I have a question for you, and where are the guarantees that what we're about to vote on, considering that you've again set an unrealistically high deficit, that it's not just a paper that we're going to have to vote on in three months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u154	If you listened to me carefully, I answered the budget this year. And we have every reason to believe that we will fund to the full all the expenditures that are foreseen in the 2020 budget. The budget deficit will be fully funded. The basis for this is to consider it to be receiving macro-financial assistance, there are Euro-bonding loans, and there are last ones: auctions. So don't worry, we'll provide funding for all the projected expenses. As for the fact that the accumulated December spending is a problem, we will deal with it, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u155	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Marchenko, I think you understand that the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are well aware of the difference between the security sector and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And we ask you specifically to answer a specific question. Why does the government in the warring country of the second year in a row not raise the wages of the Armed Forces of Ukraine? How could the government file a budget that raises 40 percent of the costs to the Greens office? It's the servants' budget, not the people's. We want a very clear answer. Why do you feel this way about the Armed Forces of Ukraine? Two billion for the prosecution's office; a billion for the D.B.I. You found; five billion for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In the Armed Forces of Ukraine, you don't raise a penny a second year in a row to pay those who today defend our right to live here in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in the budget sequestration, the only sector that we didn't have was the security and defence sector. And so there's no reason to think that we're reducing defense costs. With respect to the President's office. I am responsible for stating that between the first and second reading of the expenditure on the Office of the President of Ukraine, 273 million dollars were reduced. That's the answer to your question. For prosecutors, D.B., N.A.U., and other organizations. These laws, adopted by the Supreme Council, must be enforced by the Cabinet of Ministers. And there are certain levels of social security, payouts, including the identified categories of workers. We enforce laws to the extent that we have a budget for these possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. The Deputy Head of the Budget Committee, Truchin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u159	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, of the Court of Auditors, considered the second-reading bill on the State Budget for the year 21. After examining the state of government budgeting, the Supreme Council noted that 31 were included in part of the first 56 budget proposals, part 19, not including 6 proposals. As for part two of the 129 assignments, 17 are included, 8 is included, 104 are not included. The committee's report contains relevant analytical information on the amended bill and the differences between the first-reading project. In summary, the budget committee proposes to make separate balanced changes to the bill agreed with the Ministry of Finance. In particular, to standardize in the special fund for the conservation of the funds that will come from Naftogazu in the current year and the receipts resulting from the financial misdemeanours found by the Derjaudit Service for targeted measures related to the vaccination of the population and the prevention of the spread of coronary disease and the fight against its consequences. Redistribute expenditure on individual budget programs within the total amount of expenditure. To entrust the government, on the basis of the implementation of the State Budget in the first quarter of 2021, to consider increasing the costs of judicial administrations, the implementation of the medical safeguards programme, the development of higher and higher education institutions, and to introduce the necessary technical and legal remedies to address inaccuracies and harmonized legal standards, as provided for in the related 4100-d bill. According to the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Committee has just given an urgent consideration to this issue in view of the fact that the bill of 4100-d on amendments to the Budget Code adopted today supported the proposal for the 2021 accounting of 13.44 per cent of the excise tax on fuel to local government budgets, which was not included in the 2021 State Budget project, and therefore led to a balance of its indicators. So, according to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the High Council recommends an amended bill of 4,000 to be adopted on second reading and in general as a law taking into account the proposals of the committee agreed with Minfin with further clarifications and additions given in the letters of the committee from December 14th and 15th. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u161	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I have literally been associating with the leaders of the united territorial communities who have just entered their respective responsibilities during this day. As soon as they saw the starting figures for the educational subsidy yesterday, they must have had some kind of cold shock. Why? Because if you take the state as a whole, about three blocks is just calculated and a subsidy given by the government. I have a specific question for you. What did you have in mind on the committee to increase education subsidies in the unified territorial communities? And the second. I want to ask you specifically. What did you foresee on the payroll committee for those small categories of teachers who have just come to work? What's the minimum wage for a teacher who just came to work at school? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u162	See, there's a lot of categories that you've mentioned, so it's impossible to comment on wages and interest rates in each category right now. But what I want to point out is that in the Committee's list of posts, what I've been speaking under the transcript during my speech, there's a rule that after 1 quarter we've entrusted the Ministry of Finance with a detailed consideration of the possibility, if there's not enough educational subsidies, to do a recalculation, and to fill this fund in further to ensure payment. The increase in these categories of wages has passed, and you can get to know it and see the calculations of the educational subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u163	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u164	Please pass it on to Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u165	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I want everyone to hear. Today's budget in this Parliamentary Hall is a 100 billion dollar gap in medicine. I'll tell you what the money is. First. You've allocated less than six times less than what you need. We won't be able to get our doctors, our military, our seniors for this money. The other one. One hundred billion dollars is a service deficit. And some of them are services for the treatment of COVID. In April, all the costs of these services will be completed, as well as, colleagues, to pay 300 percent to doctors, who are all proud of you here. And the last. Today, there is not enough money in this budget for the sick and their treatment, they are patients with oncology and various rare diseases. Please don't vote for a budget in which medicine is completely circumcised. You go to these hospitals too, and there's no money to raise funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u167	Thank you for asking. So it's on the spot. First. We don't decide how much money it takes to vaccinate ourselves. We come from the documents provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. We have a document saying that Ukraine will receive 8 million doses of vaccines, and we know that the individual amount in the budget is enough to vaccinate a particular part of the citizens who are at risk. Next, on the question of underfunding. A separate fund has been created to be filled, and you have heard the sources of filling. This includes NAC Naftogaz and other programs to re-establish the budget that will fill it, and it's primarily linked to vaccination. What you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u168	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable representative of the Committee on Budgets, I will have two questions for you. The first question is, It refers to the income of local budgets. We're wondering, what's the figure for the next year, the income of the local budgets and the amount of inter-budget transfers? Why am I interested in this particular question? Because, according to our calculations, the share of the income of local budgets and inter-budget transfers in the budget is not growing every year, although we are de facto promoting a budget for decentralization or federalization, it doesn't matter. This is the first moment. And second of all, I'm interested in the question of the continuation of the topic of a previous speaker or deputy of a colleague who asked questions about vaccines. We're wondering how many people -- what is the amount of money -- get free vaccines. The most free vaccination, not just vaccination, but free vaccination from COVID-19, in what amount and how many people are going to get it? Thank you for the two answers, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u170	The first very short answer. We don't have any changes in the rules on the distribution of taxes that are included in local budgets and in the central budget. So the redistribution hasn't been reduced for local budgets, and today it's been voted to leave separate norms, like excise, you know. This is an additional 8 billion dollars to the local budgets. As for your second question. The exact number of people who are going to be vaccinated for the money in the budget, I can't tell you right now. Because I can only say the number, and the number of people will come from what vaccine will be purchased and at what price. And that information that you also know publicly and have is a letter that has been published about the 8 million free vaccines that we have to get under the Kovacs program. But I am not a minister of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u171	Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Alexander, it was on your first reading that you made an adjustment to the calculation of the net revenue of 90 percent in enterprises and 30 percent in the project. Do you realize that these are absolutely unrealistic incomes that you have planned for this article alone, since this has already been the practice of taking 90 percent into the state budget. It led to the fact that such businesses simply did not have any operational money to carry out their activities. Do you realize that the 4 billion 200 because of your amendment is not exactly going to come into the budget because you didn't appreciate the risks associated with this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u173	Thank you for the right question. All the calculations that we've proposed, they've been going through the Ministry of Finance, they've confirmed them, they've made decisions, they've made decisions, they've passed them on to us for a second reading. That's why I think if Ministry experts worked with numbers, the numbers are working. We listened to representatives of both the Holding Fund and other companies during work meetings and working groups on the State Budget project, and they also found these figures to be completely realistic. I'm not referring to the executive branch of power, so I'm not ensuring that these programs are implemented, but just planning with my colleagues and making proposals for which you and I have the opportunity to vote, so I think that anything is possible. We make a plan, let the executive branch of power do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u174	Master Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u175	I'm sorry, dear colleagues, it's time. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Trukin. Please sign up for factions: two for, two for. Excuse me, two minutes each faction, the MP group. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u176	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u177	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, we have long considered all "yes" and "against" to our MP group whether to vote in favour of this draft budget or not. We're going to tell you honestly that we don't like this project very much. We can see that there's not much money in it for anything. We don't have enough money for education. We don't have enough money for medicine. Instead, some mythical articles are costing enough. There's enough money for repressive organs, the Henprocuratorate, the D.B.I., the N.A.U.U., and so on. But we do understand that we are adopting a budget under the country's uneasy economic and socio-financial conditions. We're taking budget in quarantine, in pandemic conditions. We accept the budget not for the President, not for the Prime Minister, not even for the Ukrainian national deputies. We accept a budget for ordinary citizens. And speaking of ordinary citizens, and this is confirmed today by voting in the excise hall, we should keep in mind the communities. We should bear in mind that communities should receive real direct support from the state budget. And that was voted today in the room -- direct fuel exciseion. It's not a single faction, it's a merit, essentially, of all the factions and MPs in this sessional room. We should also keep in mind the tax on the railway that we held back in this draft budget. We need to keep in mind a doctor, an increase in wages for health - care workers. We've actually done this, and that's what this draft budget provides. We should keep in mind the teacher and the initial teacher. And what was said was that the beginner-teacher would get 9,800, those 10,000 dollars, he would have to get next year. Friends, our position is the principle: our every decision, especially with regard to the draft budget, must be measured by the demands and needs of Ukrainian citizens. That's what the MPs are coming out of. And we're going to put our shoulders on the ground today, we're going to put our shoulders on the government today, and we're going to vote for this unforgivable draft budget for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u179	Krulko Ivan. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u180	The Fatherland faction, Sobolev. Today, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, four key positions were personally pledged. Two of them are done, and that's nice. These are the positions that have been raised with regard to local budgets. And thanks to the principled position of the hall, we actually have protected articles on local budgets today. There are two remaining positions that we have never heard of in a speech by the finance minister and a representative of the committee. First position. Is there really going to be an article in the Special Fund that's going to be protected, that's going to be paid to doctors and doctors, and to younger medical personnel from the Special Forces? To close the subject of what kind of pay medical personnel will enter next year. The second position is equally important. The Minister of Finance promised to give us the number from which a beginner teacher came after the university to teach at school. Without answering these two questions, our faction will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u181	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u182	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear citizens of Ukraine, look at these beautiful Christmas trees. And what gift does the Servant of the People give, this government and this government, under the tree of the Ukrainian people? Well, I'm sorry, it's called "set up a pig" in this budget for the next year. Let me explain why. Actually, when we say that this budget is a year, I think it's wrong. It's probably a neighborhood budget, 95 blocks. Why? I'll explain. Because between the first and the second readings we have a change in this budget. And what are these changes? We have reduced our education grant by nearly 3 billion dollars, the pension fund transfer by 8.5 billion dollars, the State Regional Development Fund by nearly 5 billion dollars. It's all been reduced. Additional subsidies for education and health facilities have been reduced by 2 billion dollars. The financial support of national theatres has been reduced. Reduced, decreased, decreased, decreased! What's left? And that's exactly what's left of Greensky's, the President's Office. As the cloudy figure was the largest increase compared to this year, it remained. The increased funding of the Attorney General's Office remained. The State Bureau of Investigation, and more rightly, the persecution remains. So what's this budget? This is the budget for Green's hot tub and the muscle that protects it. It's a lie budget because these incomes that are set up here are unrealistic, and who will finance it, and how will the country survive next year. In this government, imagine, one of the ministers of health is calling on MPs not to vote for the budget, because there is a completely unaccounted-for health sector during the pandemic. And whoever votes for it, watch your hands. Now in our eyes, we're going to see a new "broad", which is voting such a budget before the new year for all citizens of Ukraine by bullying. Insolent budget!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u183	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the budget is the result of that economic policy and the economic course that was offered to us this year. And the main parameters are, of course, those initiatives that will be supported by you next year. What will not be acceptable to us in this draft budget? Of course, it's a deficit. At least it was at the first reading of 270 billion, now it's 246, but it's still an extremely large budget deficit that's going to cover, you know, from where. Next, one more moment. This is about what we are constantly told about growth. Forget the growth, we have a gradual recovery of all macroeconomic indicators, including budget figures. For example. 37 billion dollars is planned next year, that's the budget's income. For example, in the 13th year, there were 44 of them. I mean, when we get onto this plank, we can only say that they're at least. We've started to rebuild and go above these parameters. This is about income. Now there's another very important point that we think is unacceptable, and I've been paying attention to it. This is as far as both borrowing and service of government and sovereign debt are concerned. You're increasing the debt burden. You're increasing your debt, and we're actually voting or not voting for this budget, but it's actually increasing the debt burden for the future. If for each of us today we're going to calculate the debt by $2,000, it's going to be more. In figures: 701.8 billion dollars is an additional loan or 64 percent in the income part of the budget; 627 billion dollars is an expense or 47 percent of the expenditure part of the budget, that is, the servicing and repayment of debts. Clearly, we need to build up a future of strength. We need to do strategic things. And that's why this budget doesn't solve these issues. Let's change the whole thing anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u185	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u186	Please tell Ironman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u187	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u188	Of course, budgets are called: the defense budget, the decentralization budget, the medical budget. Because unlike political promises, the budget is specific figures, and they specifically reflect the priorities of power. I can only call this a space budget because it has a "black hole" of 240 billion deficits. This is the kind of money that we're going to be paying for taxes, on the basis of unpaid pensions, on account of unfulfilled infrastructure projects. This budget cannot be called a medical budget. Because even the minister of health, though virtual, calls for no vote in favour of this budget. This budget cannot be called a social support budget. Because in this budget, the pension fund is 8.5 billion dollars. Well, if it's not a creative approach to this social isolation of pensioners, because they won't have the money to go to the store. It's not an education budget. Between the first and the second readings, more than 4 billion were taken. This is not a business support budget. Because once we vote it, from January 1st, every FOP, for example, second group, will pay half a thousand dollars more each month, whether it works or not. The only name that fits this budget is the budget of opportunities for the President's Office. Because unlike education, medicine, and other things, the President’s Office did not cheat any bracelets, even though he promised. And it's very symbolic that they put on the Bank's Carousel, which is an indication to the Ukrainians that they're going to have to spin again next year. Now the government is looking for votes for this budget, because the Voice faction is not exactly going to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u189	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u190	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, Deputy Group "Trust". First of all, the distinguished national MPs, thank you, from the local authorities for coming to see you. Because we can proudly say that we are finishing the process of decentralization because we have given our communities fuel excises to develop them. And you and I need to complete this process, which we should have completed long ago, for the next year's budget. Because by the new year, there are only two weeks left, and the country still has no document to live with in the following year. And maybe not all the numbers in this budget document look realistic. But you and I have to compromise, especially for education and medicine costs, because these are the most vulnerable areas in the pandemic. It is unacceptable to stop the increase in salaries for our educators, and it is also unacceptable to cut the education grant in the budget. Next. We have to anticipate the money to fight the Coronavirus pandemic. It's supposed to be such an active payroll fund for our medics. We need a fund that can help us as our doctors, nurses, labs -- all the health workers. We believe that solving these issues is important for our country. The Trust MP group, which is made up of majors, cannot throw the country into budgetary chaos and leave people without financial mechanisms for the next year. That's why we're voting for the budget in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u191	Thank you. Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Mr. Secretary of Finance, Mr. Marchenko, if you'll excuse me. So I'd like to ask you a specific question that all opposition factions require to determine their vote further than the budget in 2021. It's about the two social spheres that are the most worrying right now, that's medicine and education. Please tell me, is the provision for assistance, extra pay, free vaccination in a special fund that will be created for health care professionals like the hedge fund? And the second question. Please give me a clear answer. What's the basic wage for a beginner teacher? The answer to these questions will be addressed and the voting of several opposition factions for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u193	Give me a minute to answer to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Markenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u194	Thank you for asking. On the first question. Yes, indeed, according to the National Deputies, there is paragraph 3 of the resolution, which is voted together with the budget, which provides for the creation of a special fund to implement measures related to the vaccination of the population and prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19, including an increase in the salaries of health workers. So this is going to be settled, and by the results of the first quarter, we're going to make sure that this is done. It's about teachers' wages. The uncategorized teacher now gets 7,580, and when he grows up he's going to get 9511, that's after the university. And then the teacher of the upper class on the average now gets 10600, he's going to get 13400.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u195	Thank you. Please sign up for a question from the Ukrainian national MPs, six minutes' notice. Dear colleagues, now we have two speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies, and we are moving to a budget vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I'm out of town. First of all, I want to thank my fellow national MPs who supported excise duty for the community today. You know, I get a lot of thanks from the communities here. I have, in particular, ten territorial communities that could spend 50 million dollars. It's not just the roads, it's going to be for the development of schools, gardens, for the lighting of the streets. Because unfortunately, today their budgets are survival budgets and this is the only resource for development. So I think this is a victory, and this is one of those decentralization elements that will allow communities to develop. So I think that, despite all the shortcomings, despite the fact that the budget is not simple, but a better budget than no budget at all needs to be supported, especially given those rights. But I also wanted to point out that the Minregion, that Mincifra and our committee, in conclusion, offered to support the administrative services centers. We now have a thousand 438 communities, and we have supported a bill that obliges them to create them, CNAPs, in every community. And so we're going to solve the myths that we have to go to people's neighborhoods for services. Communities are now a fundamental element and actually the foundation of local self - government. But we made a provision in the law -- co-financing at the expense of government funds. And that the minister of regional politics, and that the minister of Minsk, that our committee asked for two billion to build up, to rebuild, to equip these CNAPs. Unfortunately, even in the district centers, we have these DNAPs -- 75 percent that don't look like DNAPs at all -- it's just a room and a sign of CNAP. And we're building and optimising the CNAP network, and that's very important in terms of decentralization. So I'm asking you very much to find the opportunity to find these 2 billion dollars, because we've committed each community to creating these CNAPs, and there's no money for that. And if you don't already, yes, this money is gone, I'm asking the National MPs to pay attention and allocate the cost to the welfare of creating CNapps in your communities, because it's the heart of the community, it's the face of power and local self-government, where people get quality and affordable services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Maj. Mikola Romanovich, after Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, then we go to the vote. I would like you to invite the people's deputies to the hall again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the State Bureau of Repression has just filed charges for murder, calling the Dignity Revolution and Midan's events a massacre, in fact, to Tetjani Blackwall, who was the victim of the "tiny" then. In these moments in Maidan, where the Dignity Revolution took place seven years ago, there is a beating of the FOPs, and unfortunately our police are also turning into the Berkut of Janukovich times. And what's going on in this room right now, called budget review, is also a testimony to a rematch. Because we can see that in this budget, all the nurses have cheese. And I've got an honourable colleague standing in front of me, so don't cry, Jaroslavina, set up groups here, not vote for "servants" who accept the "servicing" budget, not for the people. You know, when we read from Lithuania where the president of a European country refuses to come to the residence because it's spent 350 thousand euros, which is too expensive for this country at the time of the pandemic, and at that time President Greensky, who promised to move to the Ukrainian House, has been temporarily living in the residence he promised to give to the children, you might think you're doing that? By the way, the Ukrainian House is frozen and unfunded today because all the money goes to carousel next to Banks and Greens Office. Now, every single one of you who press the green button has to go to their districts and tell us why you took a bribe from Greensky's government and pressed the "Pro" button for a budget where there's no cash to raise the wages of the soldiers that protect you. And this is the first time since Yanukovich's time that you've paid no salary to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It's the first time you haven't made a decision by our government to raise teachers' salaries. You promised them $4,000 or euros, and today you can't find 4,000 dollars to raise your salary. You're the one who's lying to doctors today about you paying them 300 percent, you don't have any money for that. What's the money in the budget that you're going to vote for (and you'll be particularly ashamed of being majors because you're going to go to the districts) to get rid of regional funds, to destroy decentralization, to build a police state. He's giving money to the police who's banging the FOP network right now. To the D.B.I. that brings in a rematch and doesn't deliver Blackwall's message. To the Attorney General's office, who doesn't see any corrupts in this room. And you forget about the people. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, let's all be able to come, take their place, prepare for the budget vote. By procedure, you and I are now voting for the second reading and then for the whole. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? In accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting for a second reading, taking into account the Committee’s conclusion on budgetary matters, on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2021 (Registration No. 4000). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:15:57]] For 290 Decision taken. In accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2021 with the necessary technical and legal rights (Registration No. 4000). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:16:40]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 225, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 12, "Party for the Future" – 21, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 20, "non-factional" – 11. Once again, welcome to the 2021 State Budget. Dear colleagues, don't break up! Dear colleagues, it is still necessary to vote on the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is an offer to do so without discussion. Calchenko is a two-minute head of the Rules Committee, MP ethic, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u200	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the Supreme Council’s Office’s project of funding and decided to submit a draft Decree (registration 4448) for Parliament’s consideration. At the same time, during the Committee's consideration of this issue, the committee entrusted the committee with a committee on Parliament's consideration of the additional need for financial support for the publication of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, amounting to 1 million 30,000 500 dollars, which was taken into account by the Committee on Budget Affairs, in the conclusion of this committee and in the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021, which had just been adopted. Therefore, the Committee decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft Decree (registration 4448) be adopted on the basis of, and in general, taking into account the additional need for financial support for, the publication of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-15-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Financial Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2021 (Registration No. 4448). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:19:14]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you, the decision is taken in general. Dear colleagues, announcements. There have been allegations of liberation from two ministers: the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Ukraine and the Minister for Veterans of Ukraine. Please. Please don't scream, please. I ask the committees to gather to consider these questions in the morning so that we can bring them to the plenary. I'm giving you a proper assignment. And the final announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union "Supporting and Promoting Strategic Industry Sectors" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is co-chaired by national deputies Galuch, Kopitin and Kachuru. Thank you all. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
